What Is P-Value?  

In statistics, the p-value is the probability of obtaining results at least as extreme as the observed results of a statistical hypothesis test, assuming that the null hypothesis is correct. The p-value serves as an alternative to rejection points to provide the smallest level of significance at which the null hypothesis would be rejected. A smaller p-value means that there is stronger evidence in favor of the alternative hypothesis.



P-value is often used to promote credibility for studies or reports by government agencies. For example, the U.S. Census Bureau stipulates that any analysis with a p-value greater than 0.10 must be accompanied by a statement that the difference is not statistically different from zero. The Census Bureau also has standards in place stipulating which p-values are acceptable for various publications.





Key Takeaways

A p-value is a statistical measurement used to validate a hypothesis against observed data.A p-value measures the probability of obtaining the observed results, assuming that the null hypothesis is true.The lower the p-value, the greater the statistical significance of the observed difference.A p-value of 0.05 or lower is generally considered statistically significant.P-value can serve as an alternative to—or in addition to—preselected confidence levels for hypothesis testing.












Jessica Olah / Investopedia


   How Is P-Value Calculated?  

P-values are usually found using p-value tables or spreadsheets/statistical software. These calculations are based on the assumed or known probability distribution of the specific statistic tested. P-values are calculated from the deviation between the observed value and a chosen reference value, given the probability distribution of the statistic, with a greater difference between the two values corresponding to a lower p-value.



Mathematically, the p-value is calculated using integral calculus from the area under the probability distribution curve for all values of statistics that are at least as far from the reference value as the observed value is, relative to the total area under the probability distribution curve.



The calculation for a p-value varies based on the type of test performed. The three test types describe the location on the probability distribution curve: lower-tailed test, upper-tailed test, or two-tailed test.



In a nutshell, the greater the difference between two observed values, the less likely it is that the difference is due to simple random chance, and this is reflected by a lower p-value.


   The P-Value Approach to Hypothesis Testing  

The p-value approach to hypothesis testing uses the calculated probability to determine whether there is evidence to reject the null hypothesis. The null hypothesis, also known as the conjecture, is the initial claim about a population (or data-generating process). The alternative hypothesis states whether the population parameter differs from the value of the population parameter stated in the conjecture.



In practice, the significance level is stated in advance to determine how small the p-value must be to reject the null hypothesis. Because different researchers use different levels of significance when examining a question, a reader may sometimes have difficulty comparing results from two different tests. P-values provide a solution to this problem.



For example, suppose a study comparing returns from two particular assets was undertaken by different researchers who used the same data but different significance levels. The researchers might come to opposite conclusions regarding whether the assets differ.



If one researcher used a confidence level of 90% and the other required a confidence level of 95% to reject the null hypothesis, and if the p-value of the observed difference between the two returns was 0.08 (corresponding to a confidence level of 92%), then the first researcher would find that the two assets have a difference that is statistically significant, while the second would find no statistically significant difference between the returns.



To avoid this problem, the researchers could report the p-value of the hypothesis test and allow readers to interpret the statistical significance themselves. This is called a p-value approach to hypothesis testing. Independent observers could note the p-value and decide for themselves whether that represents a statistically significant difference or not.






Even a low p-value is not necessarily proof of statistical significance, since there is still a possibility that the observed data are the result of chance. Only repeated experiments or studies can confirm if a relationship is statistically significant.


   Example of P-Value  

An investor claims that their investment portfolio’s performance is equivalent to that of the Standard & Poor’s (S&P) 500 Index. To determine this, the investor conducts a two-tailed test.



The null hypothesis states that the portfolio’s returns are equivalent to the S&P 500’s returns over a specified period, while the alternative hypothesis states that the portfolio’s returns and the S&P 500’s returns are not equivalent—if the investor conducted a one-tailed test, the alternative hypothesis would state that the portfolio’s returns are either less than or greater than the S&P 500’s returns.



The p-value hypothesis test does not necessarily make use of a preselected confidence level at which the investor should reset the null hypothesis that the returns are equivalent. Instead, it provides a measure of how much evidence there is to reject the null hypothesis. The smaller the p-value, the greater the evidence against the null hypothesis.



Thus, if the investor finds that the p-value is 0.001, there is strong evidence against the null hypothesis, and the investor can confidently conclude that the portfolio’s returns and the S&P 500’s returns are not equivalent.



Although this does not provide an exact threshold as to when the investor should accept or reject the null hypothesis, it does have another very practical advantage. P-value hypothesis testing offers a direct way to compare the relative confidence that the investor can have when choosing among multiple different types of investments or portfolios relative to a benchmark such as the S&P 500.



For example, for two portfolios, A and B, whose performance differs from the S&P 500 with p-values of 0.10 and 0.01, respectively, the investor can be much more confident that portfolio B, with a lower p-value, will actually show consistently different results.




Is a 0.05 P-value Significant?
A p-value less than 0.05 is typically considered to be statistically significant, in which case the null hypothesis should be rejected. A p-value greater than 0.05 means that deviation from the null hypothesis is not statistically significant, and the null hypothesis is not rejected.




What Does a P-value of 0.001 Mean?
A p-value of 0.001 indicates that if the null hypothesis tested were indeed true, then there would be a one-in-1,000 chance of observing results at least as extreme. This leads the observer to reject the null hypothesis because either a highly rare data result has been observed or the null hypothesis is incorrect.




How Can You Use P-value to Compare Two Different Results of a Hypothesis Test?
If you have two different results, one with a p-value of 0.04 and one with a p-value of 0.06, the result with a p-value of 0.04 will be considered more statistically significant than the p-value of 0.06. Beyond this simplified example, you could compare a 0.04 p-value to a 0.001 p-value. Both are statistically significant, but the 0.001 example provides an even stronger case against the null hypothesis than the 0.04.


   The Bottom Line  

The p-value is used to measure the significance of observational data. When researchers identify an apparent relationship between two variables, there is always a possibility that this correlation might be a coincidence. A p-value calculation helps determine if the observed relationship could arise as a result of chance.



Correction—April 2, 2022: A previous version incorrectly described the p-value as the probability of results arising through random chance.
What Is P-Value?  

In statistics, the p-value is the probability of obtaining results at least as extreme as the observed results of a statistical hypothesis test, assuming that the null hypothesis is correct. The p-value serves as an alternative to rejection points to provide the smallest level of significance at which the null hypothesis would be rejected. A smaller p-value means that there is stronger evidence in favor of the alternative hypothesis.



P-value is often used to promote credibility for studies or reports by government agencies. For example, the U.S. Census Bureau stipulates that any analysis with a p-value greater than 0.10 must be accompanied by a statement that the difference is not statistically different from zero. The Census Bureau also has standards in place stipulating which p-values are acceptable for various publications.





Key Takeaways

A p-value is a statistical measurement used to validate a hypothesis against observed data.A p-value measures the probability of obtaining the observed results, assuming that the null hypothesis is true.The lower the p-value, the greater the statistical significance of the observed difference.A p-value of 0.05 or lower is generally considered statistically significant.P-value can serve as an alternative to—or in addition to—preselected confidence levels for hypothesis testing.












Jessica Olah / Investopedia


   How Is P-Value Calculated?  

P-values are usually found using p-value tables or spreadsheets/statistical software. These calculations are based on the assumed or known probability distribution of the specific statistic tested. P-values are calculated from the deviation between the observed value and a chosen reference value, given the probability distribution of the statistic, with a greater difference between the two values corresponding to a lower p-value.



Mathematically, the p-value is calculated using integral calculus from the area under the probability distribution curve for all values of statistics that are at least as far from the reference value as the observed value is, relative to the total area under the probability distribution curve.



The calculation for a p-value varies based on the type of test performed. The three test types describe the location on the probability distribution curve: lower-tailed test, upper-tailed test, or two-tailed test.



In a nutshell, the greater the difference between two observed values, the less likely it is that the difference is due to simple random chance, and this is reflected by a lower p-value.


   The P-Value Approach to Hypothesis Testing  

The p-value approach to hypothesis testing uses the calculated probability to determine whether there is evidence to reject the null hypothesis. The null hypothesis, also known as the conjecture, is the initial claim about a population (or data-generating process). The alternative hypothesis states whether the population parameter differs from the value of the population parameter stated in the conjecture.



In practice, the significance level is stated in advance to determine how small the p-value must be to reject the null hypothesis. Because different researchers use different levels of significance when examining a question, a reader may sometimes have difficulty comparing results from two different tests. P-values provide a solution to this problem.



For example, suppose a study comparing returns from two particular assets was undertaken by different researchers who used the same data but different significance levels. The researchers might come to opposite conclusions regarding whether the assets differ.



If one researcher used a confidence level of 90% and the other required a confidence level of 95% to reject the null hypothesis, and if the p-value of the observed difference between the two returns was 0.08 (corresponding to a confidence level of 92%), then the first researcher would find that the two assets have a difference that is statistically significant, while the second would find no statistically significant difference between the returns.



To avoid this problem, the researchers could report the p-value of the hypothesis test and allow readers to interpret the statistical significance themselves. This is called a p-value approach to hypothesis testing. Independent observers could note the p-value and decide for themselves whether that represents a statistically significant difference or not.






Even a low p-value is not necessarily proof of statistical significance, since there is still a possibility that the observed data are the result of chance. Only repeated experiments or studies can confirm if a relationship is statistically significant.


   Example of P-Value  

An investor claims that their investment portfolio’s performance is equivalent to that of the Standard & Poor’s (S&P) 500 Index. To determine this, the investor conducts a two-tailed test.



The null hypothesis states that the portfolio’s returns are equivalent to the S&P 500’s returns over a specified period, while the alternative hypothesis states that the portfolio’s returns and the S&P 500’s returns are not equivalent—if the investor conducted a one-tailed test, the alternative hypothesis would state that the portfolio’s returns are either less than or greater than the S&P 500’s returns.



The p-value hypothesis test does not necessarily make use of a preselected confidence level at which the investor should reset the null hypothesis that the returns are equivalent. Instead, it provides a measure of how much evidence there is to reject the null hypothesis. The smaller the p-value, the greater the evidence against the null hypothesis.



Thus, if the investor finds that the p-value is 0.001, there is strong evidence against the null hypothesis, and the investor can confidently conclude that the portfolio’s returns and the S&P 500’s returns are not equivalent.



Although this does not provide an exact threshold as to when the investor should accept or reject the null hypothesis, it does have another very practical advantage. P-value hypothesis testing offers a direct way to compare the relative confidence that the investor can have when choosing among multiple different types of investments or portfolios relative to a benchmark such as the S&P 500.



For example, for two portfolios, A and B, whose performance differs from the S&P 500 with p-values of 0.10 and 0.01, respectively, the investor can be much more confident that portfolio B, with a lower p-value, will actually show consistently different results.




Is a 0.05 P-value Significant?
A p-value less than 0.05 is typically considered to be statistically significant, in which case the null hypothesis should be rejected. A p-value greater than 0.05 means that deviation from the null hypothesis is not statistically significant, and the null hypothesis is not rejected.




What Does a P-value of 0.001 Mean?
A p-value of 0.001 indicates that if the null hypothesis tested were indeed true, then there would be a one-in-1,000 chance of observing results at least as extreme. This leads the observer to reject the null hypothesis because either a highly rare data result has been observed or the null hypothesis is incorrect.




How Can You Use P-value to Compare Two Different Results of a Hypothesis Test?
If you have two different results, one with a p-value of 0.04 and one with a p-value of 0.06, the result with a p-value of 0.04 will be considered more statistically significant than the p-value of 0.06. Beyond this simplified example, you could compare a 0.04 p-value to a 0.001 p-value. Both are statistically significant, but the 0.001 example provides an even stronger case against the null hypothesis than the 0.04.


   The Bottom Line  

The p-value is used to measure the significance of observational data. When researchers identify an apparent relationship between two variables, there is always a possibility that this correlation might be a coincidence. A p-value calculation helps determine if the observed relationship could arise as a result of chance.



Correction—April 2, 2022: A previous version incorrectly described the p-value as the probability of results arising through random chance.
What Is the Pac-Man Defense?  

The Pac-Man defense is a defensive tactic used by a targeted firm in a hostile takeover situation. In a Pac-Man defense, the target firm then tries to acquire the company that has made a hostile takeover attempt. In an attempt to scare off the would-be acquirers, the takeover target may use any method to acquire the other company, including dipping into its war chest for cash to buy a majority stake in the other company.





Key Takeaways

With the Pac-Man defense, a company that has been targeted in a hostile takeover scenario fights back by seeking to gain financial control of the situation.The targeted company may choose to sell off certain key assets, so as to wrest them free of the potential acquisition company. The targeted company may also choose to buy back some of its own shares from the hostile company, or try to buy some of that company's shares.The company in danger of being taken over might fund these actions by getting outside financing, or by using its own war chest of available funds.


   Understanding the Pac-Man Defense  

In the actual Pac-Man video game, the player has several ghosts chasing and trying to eliminate it. If the player eats a power pellet, they may turn around and eat the ghosts.



Companies may use a similar approach as a means of avoiding a hostile takeover by turning the tables on the acquirer and mounting a bid to take over the raider. During the acquiring phase, the takeover company may begin a large-scale purchase of the target company’s stocks to gain control of the company. As a counter-strategy, the target company may begin buying back its shares and purchasing shares of the acquiring company.



It helps substantially if the targeted company has a war chest so that it has the means to mount a Pac-Man defense. A company’s war chest is the buffer of cash kept aside for uncertain adverse events, such as taking over a company. A war chest is typically invested in liquid assets such as Treasury bills and bank deposits that are available on demand.






A smaller or equivalent company may avoid a hostile takeover by using the Pac-Man defense.


   Special Considerations  

For some companies, the Pac-Man defense is one of the few options available when faced with a hostile takeover attempt. Without getting aggressive and fighting back, the company may have no chance of surviving. However, on the downside, the Pac-Man defense can be an expensive strategy that may increase debts for the target company. Shareholders may suffer losses or lower dividends in future years.


   Examples of the Pac-Man Defense  

In 1982, Bendix Corp. attempted to acquire Martin Marietta by purchasing a controlling amount of its stocks. Bendix became the owner of the company on paper. However, Martin Marietta’s management retaliated by selling off its chemical, cement and aluminum divisions, and borrowing over $1 billion to counter the acquisition. The conflict resulted in Allied Corp. acquiring Bendix.



In February 1988, after a month-long takeover fight that began when E-II Holdings Inc. made an offer for American Brands Inc., American Brands bought E-II for $2.7 billion. American Brands financed the merger through existing lines of credit and a private placement of commercial paper.



Finally, in October 2013, Jos. A. Bank launched a bid to take over competitor Men’s Wearhouse. Men’s Wearhouse rejected the bid and countered with its own offers. During negotiations, Jos. A. Bank bought Eddie Bauer to gain more control in the marketplace. Men’s Wearhouse ended up buying Jos. A. Bank for $1.8 billion.
What Is Paga?  

Paga is a mobile payment platform that allows its users to transfer money electronically and make payments through their mobile devices. Paga acts as a mobile wallet where any user equipped with a mobile device can conduct transactional activities using their device. Paga was founded in Nigeria in 2009 by Tayo Oviosu and publicly launched in 2011.





Key Takeaways

Paga is a mobile phone-based payments platform that was first launched in Nigeria in 2011.Paga also offers basic banking services such as savings accounts, wire transfers, and merchant services.Emergent technology in the financial sector has made it possible for unbanked people to pay for and receive goods and services using a mobile phone instead of utilizing a brick-and-mortar bank.


   How Paga Works  

Paga was introduced in Nigeria to take advantage of the cash buildup in the system and to create a means whereby financial services are available to all. Although the banking sector in Nigeria is not easily accessible to everyone, the telecommunications industry has been more successful in reaching a large portion of the country’s population.



The collaboration of both the banking and telecom sector has given rise to mobile banking platforms like Paga, where a user can perform basic financial transactions with the use of a cellphone. Paga works through a mobile phone application or online through the company’s website.



With Paga, customers are able to deposit and save money, purchase prepaid phone credit, pay utility and cable bills, and make payments to retailers. The partnership between Paga and Western Union also has the added benefit where Western Money transfers sent to users can be deposited into their Paga accounts.



Paga has numerous outlets across the country where its agents act as human ATMs. A Paga account holder or nonholder who needs to transfer money would give the agent the recipient’s phone number. The agent uses their phone to process the transaction and debits the sender’s account for the amount to be sent and the transaction fee.


  Other Services  

Another option that is exclusive to account holders is the online option, in which the account holder can use an internet-enabled mobile device to process the transaction himself. The Paga account can be funded by depositing money with an agent, at a bank, or by using a debit card online.



After funds have been deposited and transferred, the sender and recipient both receive an SMS confirmation, which serves as a receipt of the transaction. The SMS received by the sender confirms the amount of funds debited from the account and a withdrawal code required to access the funds which they would relay to the recipient. The recipient uses the withdrawal code at an outlet or a partner bank to withdraw the money sent.



In addition to basic banking transactions offered through the mobile payments app and website, Paga has a checkout payment platform that business owners, SMEs, and merchants can integrate on their own websites. Clients of these businesses also have the option of making and receiving payments through Paga’s mobile services and agent outlets.


   Special Considerations  

The advent of innovative technology in the financial sector (fintech) has seen a phenomenon whereby a cash-driven economy is rapidly evolving into a digital money economy. Consumers and businesses are adapting to emerging technologies that are making financial products and services accessible to the general population for low costs.



However, as developed economies are advancing in financial technology platforms and offerings, some developing nations are lagging in this regard. Some rural areas of developing countries don’t have easy access to banks, and if they do, the minimum deposits required by the banks may be unattainable for the residents of the community. One of the initiatives of fintech is to achieve financial inclusion globally.



The concept of financial inclusion seeks to include the unbanked and underbanked population in the digital banking era. Mobile banking systems such as Paga are being implemented to combat financial exclusion.


   Requirements for Paga  

In order to prevent fraudulent transactions, Paga has put certain measures in place to protect its users. A user logging into an unrecognized device, for example, will have to answer a couple of security questions before proceeding. Again, every transaction using Paga has to be finalized with a personal PIN known only to the user.



Furthermore, each user is grouped into three levels. Level I customers are those who registered with a full name and phone number and are limited to a maximum transfer value of ₦50,000 (or $138, as of Dec. 2019) per day. Level II customers have their names, phones, addresses, and ID card information on file and can transfer up to ₦200,000 (or $551) per day. Finally, Level III clients have a maximum transfer limit of ₦5,000,000 (or $13,780) per day and have two references and a credit check on file in addition to the Level II information provided.



A number of other mobile wallet and payment service platforms are increasingly being implemented in emerging nations that have a high percentage of unbanked groups. M-Pesa, MTN Mobile Money, Airtel Money, and Orange Money are examples of mobile banking applications that are being employed to include all people in the growing digital financial sphere.
What Is Paid-In Capital?  

Paid-in capital is the total amount of cash that a company has received in exchange for its common or preferred stock issues. In a company balance sheet, paid-in capital will appear in a line item listed under shareholders' equity (or stockholders' equity). It is often shown alongside a line item for additional paid-in capital.



The figure for paid-in capital will include the par value of the shares plus amounts paid in excess of par value.



Paid-in capital represents the money raised by the business through selling its equity rather than from ongoing business operations.





Key Takeaways

Paid-in capital is the full amount of cash or other assets that shareholders have paid a company in exchange for shares of its stock. It includes both par value and the excess of par that was paid in.Additional paid-in capital refers to only the amount paid in excess of a stock's par value.Paid-in capital is reported in the shareholders' equity section of the balance sheet.It is usually split into two different line items: common stock (par value) and additional paid-in capital.Paid-in capital can be a significant source of capital for new projects and can help offset business losses.


   Understanding Paid-In Capital  

For sales of common stock, paid-in capital, also referred to as contributed capital, consists of a stock's par value plus any amount paid in excess of par value. In contrast, additional paid-in capital refers only to the amount of capital in excess of par value, or the premium paid by investors in return for the shares issued to them.



In modern times, most common shares are assigned token par values of a few pennies. Because of this, "additional paid-in capital" tends to be essentially representative of the total paid-in capital figure and is sometimes shown by itself on the balance sheet. (Preferred shares sometimes have par values that are more than marginal.)


  Significance of Paid-In Capital  

Additional paid-in capital can provide a significant part of a young company's resources before earnings start accumulating through multiple profitable years. It is an important layer of defense against potential business losses if retained earnings show a deficit.



Short of the retirement of shares, the account balance of paid-in capital—specifically, the total par value and the amount of additional paid-in capital—should remain unchanged as a company carries on its business.






   Types of Stock Affecting Paid-In Capital  

The balance sheet number on paid-in capital may reflect transactions in common shares, preferred shares, treasury stock, or some combination of all of these.


  Common Stock  

Paid-in capital is not a day-to-day revenue stream for a public company, and its value does not fluctuate.



When a public company wants to raise money, it may issue a round of common stock shares. It sells all of those shares to the public at par plus whatever value the market puts on it. From then on, the shares fluctuate in value as sellers and buyers determine their value in the open market.



A company certainly has a great interest in its stock price from day to day, but not because its balance sheet is immediately affected for better or worse.


  Preferred Stock  

A preferred stock issue is another way for a company to raise cash for its business. This hybrid of a stock and a bond appeals to investors who want a steady dividend payment and protection of their capital from bankruptcy.



Investors value preferred stock shares for their steady returns, not for their price growth, which can be minimal. They appeal to fewer investors, which is why most companies have relatively few shares of preferred stock than common stock in circulation.


  Treasury Stock  

Companies may buy back shares from time to time in order to reduce the total number of their shares in circulation. This is a popular move among shareholders, who are likely to see their shares increase in value.



The shares bought back are listed within the shareholders' equity section at their repurchase price as treasury stock, a contra-equity account that reduces the total balance of shareholders' equity.



If the treasury stock is sold at above its repurchase price, the gain is credited to an account called "paid-in capital from treasury stock." If the treasury stock is sold below its repurchase price, the loss reduces the company's retained earnings. If the treasury stock is sold at a price equal to its repurchase price, the removal of the treasury stock simply restores shareholders' equity to its pre-buyback level.



Paid-In Capital From Retirement of Treasury Stock



Companies may opt to remove treasury stock by retiring some treasury shares rather than reissuing them. The retirement of treasury stock reduces the balance of paid-in capital, applicable to the number of retired treasury shares.



If the initial repurchase price of the treasury stock was lower than the amount of paid-in capital related to the number of shares retired, then "paid-in capital from the retirement of treasury stock" is credited. If the initial repurchase price of the treasury stock was higher than the amount of paid-in capital related to the number of shares retired, then the loss reduces the company's retained earnings.






Once treasury shares are retired, they are canceled and cannot be reissued.


   Example of Paid-In Capital  

To illustrate, say Company B issues 2,000 shares of common stock with a par value of $2 per share. The market price per share is $20 per share. Paid-in capital is the total amount paid by investors for common or preferred stock. Therefore, the total paid-in capital is $40,000 ($4,000 par value of the shares + $36,000 amount of additional capital in excess of par).



In the shareholders' equity section of Company B's balance sheet, $36,000 is recorded next to the line item "Paid-in Capital in Excess of Par," while $4,000 is recorded next to the line item "Common Stock." The figures combined equal the total paid-in capital.


   Paid-In Capital vs. Additional Paid-In Capital vs. Earned Capital  

Each of these line items in a balance sheet convey a different piece of information to the interested investor or analyst:



Paid-In Capital is the amount of money that investors have paid for shares in the company.Additional Paid-In Capital is the difference between the par value of the shares and the actual price of the shares. This reflects only shares bought directly from the company rather than on the stock market.Earned Capital is the amount of money that has been generated by the company's business operations.



A young company with big expectations might have significantly more paid-in capital than earned capital. This shows a degree of enthusiasm from investors.



A mature company should have more earned capital than paid-in capital. Earned capital is an indication of the amount of money that a company is actually taking in for its goods and services.




How Is Paid-In Capital Calculated?
Paid-in capital is the total amount received by a company from the issuance of common or preferred stock. It is calculated by adding the par value of the issued shares with the amounts received in excess of the shares' par value.




How Is Paid-In Capital Recorded?
Paid-in capital is recorded on the company's balance sheet under the shareholders' equity section. It can be called out as its own line item, listed as an item next to Additional Paid-in Capital, or determined by adding the totals from the common or preferred stock and the additional paid-in capital lines.




Is Paid-In Capital a Debit or a Credit?
Paid-in capital appears as a credit (that is, an increase) to the paid-in capital section of the balance sheet, and as a debit, or increase, to cash.If not distinguished as its own line item, there will be a debit to cash for the total amount received and credits to common or preferred stock and additional paid-in capital.




What Is the Difference Between Common Stock and Paid-In Capital?
Common stock is a component of paid-in capital, which is the total amount received from investors for stock.On the balance sheet, the par value of outstanding shares is recorded to common stock, and the excess (that is, the amount the market price adds to par value) is recorded to additional paid-in capital.The sum of common stock and additional paid-in capital represents the paid-in capital.


   The Bottom Line  

Paid-in capital may not be a headline number for a company, but it's worth taking note of it as an investor.



This number indicates the total amount of money that individual investors and institutional investors have staked on a company's success.
What Is Paid-Up Additional Insurance?  

Paid-up additional life insurance can be thought of as small chunks of whole life insurance purchased with dividends from a whole life policy. Each paid-up addition (PUA) has its own death benefit and cash value, and also earns dividends. This makes them an effective way to increase the cash value and death benefit over time without medical underwriting or increasing the premium payment.





Key Takeaways

Paid-up additional insurance is additional whole life insurance coverage that a policyholder purchases using the policy’s dividends.Paid-up additions are like small packets of life insurance that are entirely paid for.They can earn dividends, and the value of each paid-up addition compounds indefinitely over time.You can surrender paid-up additions for their cash value or take a loan against them as a nonforfeiture option.Many participating whole life companies also offer PUA riders that let you purchase more paid-up additional life insurance.


   Understanding Paid-Up Additional Insurance  

Paid-up additions are just that, paid up. Which means that, unlike your base policy, you don't have to pay premiums on them once purchased. Keep in mind that these are very small packets of life insurance; on their own, they wouldn't be worth much. But if you use dividends to purchase paid-up life insurance over time, their value can compound as they also earn dividends, which can be used to purchase more paid-up insurance. The net effect can be a significant increase in the value of the policy. Not only does that mean a larger death benefit, but also a larger cash value.



Another benefit is that paid-up additions increase coverage without going through medical underwriting. This is not only convenient but especially beneficial if your health has declined since the policy was issued. Poor health can increase the cost of life insurance or make you ineligible for a policy entirely. If you can’t increase life insurance coverage through other means, having the option to purchase paid-up additional life insurance is invaluable. And since paid up additional insurance works just like regular insurance, you can surrender paid-up additions for their cash value or take a loan against them.



You can only purchase PUAs in participating whole life policies (those that pay dividends). However, they are one of many ways you can use your dividends—other ways include reducing your premium, adding to the cash value, and receiving a cash check.






Participating whole life insurance policies—those that pay dividends—are offered by mutual life insurance companies.


  PUA Rider  

Many life insurance companies also offer a paid-up additions (PUA) rider, which lets you pay extra premium dollars in order to purchase more PUAs than you could with dividends from the base policy alone. This can be a turbocharged way to increase the cash value and death benefit, especially since the value of paid-up additional life insurance compounds over time as it earns dividends which can purchase even more life insurance.



A paid-up additional insurance rider must be structured into the policy when you purchase it. Some companies may allow you to add it later, but health, age, and other factors could make that difficult.



PUA riders vary among insurance companies. They often have slightly different names, such as "additional life insurance rider," or "paid-up additions rider," or "paid-up additional life insurance rider." They may work differently as well. For some, the rider is flexible, allowing you to contribute between a maximum and minimum amount to the rider each year. Other companies stipulate that contributions remain at consistent levels, or you might lose the rider and need to reapply for it in the future.


  Example  

If you take two otherwise identical whole life insurance policies with the same annual premium, but one has a PUA rider and one doesn’t, the one with the rider may have a higher guaranteed net cash value sooner than the one without. However, in most cases, the policy with the PUA rider will initially have a lower cash value and much lower death benefit. It will take many years, possibly decades, for the two policies to have similar death benefits. For this reason, whole life insurance with a PUA rider should be viewed as a long-term strategy to maximize the cash value and death benefit.


   Special Considerations  
  Dividends  

Only member-owned mutual insurance companies issue dividends. Dividends are not guaranteed, but they are generally issued annually when the company is doing well financially. But some standout life insurance companies have a very long history of annual dividend payments and are unlikely to break their records, making these companies a good choice for dividends.



If you don't want to use dividends to purchase paid-up additional insurance, you can use them instead to lower the premium, earn interest, reduce loan payments, or you can receive a check.


  Reduced Paid-Up Insurance  

Reduced paid-up insurance is different from paid-up additional insurance. The former is a nonforfeiture option that allows the policy owner to receive a lower amount of fully paid whole life insurance if a policy with cash value lapses. The attained age of the insured and the cash value determine the face value of the new policy. As a result, the death benefit is smaller than that of the lapsed policy.


   Example of Paid-Up Additional Insurance  

Consider a 45-year-old male who purchases a whole life policy with an annual base premium of $2,000 for a $100,000 death benefit. In the first year of the policy, he decides to contribute an additional $3,000 to a paid-up additions rider. The paid-up additions will give him an immediate cash value while adding $15,000 to his death benefit. If he continues to purchase paid-up additions, he will continue to increase his cash value and death benefit as time goes on.
What Is Paid-Up Capital?  

Paid-up capital is the amount of money a company has received from shareholders in exchange for shares of stock. Paid-up capital is created when a company sells its shares on the primary market directly to investors, usually through an initial public offering (IPO). When shares are bought and sold among investors on the secondary market, no additional paid-up capital is created as proceeds in those transactions go to the selling shareholders, not the issuing company.





Key Takeaways

Paid-up capital is money that a company receives from selling stock directly to investors.The primary market is the only place where paid-up capital is received, usually through an initial public offering.Funding for paid-up capital is arrived at from two sources: the par value of stock and excess capital.Paid-up capital is the amount paid by investors above the par value of a stock.Equity financing is represented by paid-up capital.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding Paid-Up Capital  

Paid-up capital, also called paid-in capital or contributed capital, is arrived at from two funding sources: the par value of stock and excess capital. Each share of stock is issued with a base price, called its par. Typically, this value is quite low, often less than $1. Any amount paid by investors that exceeds the par value is considered additional paid-in capital, or paid-in capital in excess of par. On the balance sheet, the par value of issued shares is listed as common stock or preferred stock under the shareholder equity section.



For example, if a company issues 100 shares of common stock with a par value of $1 and sells them for $50 each, the shareholders' equity of the balance sheet shows paid-up capital totaling $5,000, consisting of $100 of common stock and $4,900 of additional paid-up capital.


   Paid-Up Capital vs. Authorized Capital  

When a company wants to raise equity, it cannot simply sell off pieces of the company to the highest bidder. Businesses must request permission to issue public shares by filing an application with the agency responsible for the registration of companies in the country of incorporation. In the United States, companies wanting to "go public" must register with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) before issuing an initial public offering (IPO).



The maximum amount of capital a company is given permission to raise via the sale of stock is called its authorized capital. Typically, the amount of authorized capital a company applies for is much higher than its current need. This is done so that the company can easily sell additional shares down the road if the need for further equity arises. Since paid-up capital is only generated by the sale of shares, the amount of paid-up capital can never exceed the authorized capital.


   Importance of Paid-Up Capital  

Paid-up capital represents money that is not borrowed. A company that is fully paid-up has sold all available shares and thus cannot increase its capital unless it borrows money by taking on debt. A company could, however, receive authorization to sell more shares.



A company's paid-up capital figure represents the extent to which it depends on equity financing to fund its operations. This figure can be compared with the company's level of debt to assess if it has a healthy balance of financing, given its operations, business model, and prevailing industry standards.
What Is Painting the Tape?  

Painting the tape is a form of market manipulation whereby market players attempt to influence the price of a security by buying and selling it among themselves to create the appearance of substantial trading activity. The goal of painting the tape is to create the illusion of an increased interest in a stock to trick investors into buying shares, which would drive the price higher.





Key Takeaways

Painting the tape is a type of market manipulation whereby market players attempt to influence the price of a security at the expense of investors.Painting the tape increases volume and attracts investors, who then may push a price higher. The market manipulators will then sell their holdings to investors unaware of the manipulation.Painting the tape is an illegal activity and prohibited by the SEC because it creates an artificial price.


   Understanding Painting the Tape  

Painting the tape is an illegal activity that is prohibited by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) because it creates an artificial price. The SEC regulates and monitors financial activity in the markets to ensure that trading is done in a fair and orderly manner.﻿﻿



The term originated in a bygone era when stock prices were largely transmitted on a ticker tape. Ticker tapes were first used to print the financial details of trades sent via a telegraph. The name was derived by the mechanical sound from the printers that printed the narrow strip of paper that contained stock quotes. Today, an electronic version of the ticker tape is used.﻿﻿



Market manipulators know that high trading volumes in a security often attract the attention of investors. Painting the tape increases volume and attracts investors, who then may push the price higher. The market manipulators who have painted the tape will then sell their holdings—often acquired at much lower prices—to investors unaware of the manipulation. These investors are left "holding the bag" once the manipulation ceases, and the price of the stock declines steeply. 






Two common objectives of painting the tape are to lure unsuspecting investors into a security and to achieve a high closing price for the security.



Manipulators may paint the tape near the market's close in an attempt to boost a stock's price substantially at market close–a practice called marking the close. Closing prices are widely reported in the media and are closely watched by investors. Since most securities are valued on the basis of their closing prices, manipulators use this tactic to achieve higher market value for their holdings.


   Example of Painting the Tape  

Let's say as an example that XYZ Trading Partners managed money for their clients and provided advice as to what stocks to buy or sell. The CEO of the firm was looking to unload a penny stock called ABC Inc., which was trading at $2 per share. However, the CEO had purchased the stock at $3 and would take a loss if he sold his shares given the current market price. As a result, the CEO decided to engage in manipulative trading practices to get investors interested in buying the stock.



The CEO entered into a number of buy trades in ABC's stock throughout the day, particularly when the stock price was rising. The CEO continued his active buying into the close of the trading day. The trading activity increased the typical daily trading volume for ABC and led to the stock closing at a multi-month high of $4 per share. As a result, investor interest spiked during the next trading day as investors interpreted the rising price as a bullish signal. The increase in trading volume attracted even more investors when investment websites showed ABC as one of the biggest percentage gainers for the day.



The stock of ABC rose to $6 per share and seeing that his strategy worked, the CEO sold all of his shares. When the sale trades of ABC hit the tape, the stock price began to falter. Other investors, who realized the move higher was a false move, rushed in to sell their shares. The frenzy of selling pushed ABC's stock price lower to $1.50 per share.



Many investors were duped into buying ABC's stock with no fundamental news to drive it higher, and they suffered widespread financial losses as a result. In the meantime, the CEO of XYZ Trading Partners doubled his investment at the expense of others through his manipulative trading practices, including painting the tape.
What Is Paper Money?  

Paper money is a country's official, paper currency that is circulated for the transactions involved in acquiring goods and services. The printing of paper money is typically regulated by a country's central bank or treasury in order to keep the flow of funds in line with monetary policy.



Paper money tends to be updated with new versions that contain security features and attempt to make it more difficult for counterfeiters to create illegal copies.





Key Takeaways

Paper money is a country's official, paper currency that is circulated for the transactions involved in acquiring goods and services.The printing of paper money is typically regulated by a country's central bank or treasury in order to keep the flow of funds in line with monetary policy.Paper money tends to be updated with new versions that contain security features and attempt to make it more difficult for counterfeiters to create illegal copies.


   Understanding Paper Money  

The first recorded use of paper money was purported to be in the country of China during the 7th century A.D. as a means of reducing the need to carry heavy and cumbersome strings of metallic coins to conduct transactions. Similar to making a deposit at a modern bank, individuals would transfer their coins to a trustworthy party and then receive a note denoting how much money they had deposited. The note could then be redeemed for currency at a later date.


   Example of Paper Money  

In the U.S., paper money is considered fiat money. This means that it has no actual value except as an accepted medium of exchange. Before 1971, this was not the case; U.S. banknotes were backed by a certain amount of gold, which was dictated by the Federal Reserve.






The U.S. dollar has been the dominant reserve currency since the end of World War II. Prior to World War II, the British pound was the dominant reserve currency.



More than 350 million people around the world use the dollar as their main form of currency—and more than $17 trillion of economic activity is accounted for with U.S. paper money. U.S. paper money is the official currency in a number of countries and areas outside of the territorial United States. These countries include Ecuador, El Salvador, Zimbabwe, Timor-Leste, Micronesia, Palau, and The Marshall Islands. The dollar is also used in all U.S. territories, including Puerto Rico and Guam. Turks and Caicos and the British Virgin Islands, both British territories in the Caribbean, also use U.S. paper money as their currency.



There are also countries that regularly use the U.S. dollar alongside their own local currency, including Bahamas, Barbados, St. Kitts and Nevis, Belize, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Panama, Myanmar, Cambodia, and Liberia, as well as several Caribbean territories.



The euro is another form of paper money that is used in multiple countries. As of 2020, 19 of the 27 member states in the European Union (EU) use the euro as their official currency.


   Special Considerations  

While paper money is the most accepted medium of exchange, companies often issue shares of their own company to purchase other companies and reward their staff. Shares are units of ownership in a company that entitle the shareholder to an equal distribution in any profits. Of all accepted mediums of exchange, shares are closest to paper money because they can be exchanged on the open market for cash.
What Is a Paper Trade?  

A paper trade is a simulated trade that allows an investor to practice buying and selling without risking real money. The term paper trade dates back to a time when aspiring traders practiced trading on paper before risking money in live markets—well before online trading platforms became the norm. While learning, a paper trader records all trades by hand to keep track of hypothetical trading positions, portfolios, and profits or losses. Most practice trading now involves the use of an electronic stock market simulator, which looks and feels like an actual trading platform.





Key Takeaways

Paper trading is simulated trading that allows investors to practice buying and selling securities.Paper trading can test a new investment strategy before employing it in a live account.Many online brokers offer clients paper trade accounts.Paper trades teach novices how to navigate platforms and make trades, but may not represent the true emotions that occur during real market conditions.


   How Paper Trades Work  

As the name implies, paper trading is the term that the investment industry uses to describe the process of learning how to trade. It allows day traders and other individuals, such as new and novice investors, to learn the basics of buying and selling stocks without using real money. In essence, paper trading is a type of trading simulator that is done on paper.



To get the most benefits from paper trading, investment decisions and placing trades should follow real trading practices and objectives. The paper investor should consider the same risk-return objectives, investment constraints, and trading horizon as they would use with a live account. For example, it would make little sense for a risk-averse long-term investor to practice numerous short-term trades like a day trader.



Paper transactions can be applied to many market conditions. For instance, a trade placed in a market characterized by high levels of market volatility is likely to result in higher slippage costs due to wider spreads compared to a market that is moving in an orderly manner. Slippage occurs when a trader obtains a different price than expected from the time the trade is initiated to the time the trade is made.



Investors and traders can use simulated trading to familiarize themselves with various order types such as stop-loss, limit orders, and market orders. Charts, quotes, and news feeds are available on many platforms as well.






   Special Considerations  

The development of online trading platforms and trading software increased the ease and popularity of paper trading. Today's simulators allow investors to trade live markets without committing actual capital, and the process can help individuals gauge whether their investment ideas have merit. Online brokers such as TradeStation, Fidelity and TD Ameritrade's thinkorswim, offer clients paper trading simulators.



For example, TD Ameritrade's paperMoney® is designed to help customers try options and different investment strategies without the worry of losing any money. Nearly everything about the simulator is the same as their feature-rich thinkorswim trading platform, except the investor is not trading real money. Investopedia provides a free simulator for trading stocks.






Paper trading should simulate actual trading, so start with $1,000 in your paper trading account if that's the amount you intend to use with a live account.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Paper Trading  
  Advantages  

The main benefit of paper trading is that it eliminates the risk of loss. That's because paper trading involves the use of so-called paper or fake money. As such, you don't have to use (your own) real money to trade stocks or other securities.



Paper trading allows you to study and test different trading strategies and techniques before you go live with the real thing. You can familiarize yourself and practice with as many tools as possible and decide which ones make the most sense for you, your comfort level, and your goals.


  Disadvantages  

Paper trading isn't perfect as it doesn't involve the use of real securities. As such, it may provide a false sense of security and often results in distorted investment returns. In other words, nonconformity with the real market happens because paper trading does not involve the risk of real genuine capital.



Since there is no risk of loss with paper trading, there is also no potential for a return. If a trader makes a good move using a paper trade, there's no chance that they'll be able to realize the gain because they aren't using real money.



Paper trading allows for basic investment strategies, such as buying low and selling high, which are more challenging to adhere to in real life, but are relatively easy to achieve while paper trading.





Pros

No risk of loss of (real) money
Allows new and novice investors to practice trading
Investors can test and choose the best trading strategies and techniques



Cons

Isn't perfect
May provide false sense of security with distorted returns
No chance of earning real returns
Allows for basic strategies, which are more challenging in live trading





   Paper Trading vs. Live Trading  

Paper and live trading allow investors to make decisions on their own—without having to consult with an investment professional, such as a broker or dealer. This allows them to make judgments and come to their own conclusion about trends in the market.



But there are key differences between the two that set them apart. The most obvious difference is that paper trading doesn't come with the risks and rewards that come with buying and selling assets with real money. Traders can stand to lose and profit from using live accounts compared to using paper trading.



Having said that, live trading requires traders to have some grasp and knowledge of how the markets work in order to be successful. This allows them to find ways to minimize any losses that may arise as a result of mistakes. And if any losses do occur, they may have the ability to recover quickly without sinking even further.



Keep in mind, though that investors may exhibit different emotions and judgments when risking real money. This can lead them to different behavior when operating a live account. Consider a real trade by a new forex trader who enters a long position with the euro against the U.S. dollar ahead of nonfarm payroll data. If the report is much better than expected and the euro drops sharply, then the trader may double down in an attempt to recoup losses in a paper trade, as opposed to taking the loss as would be advisable in a real trade.




How Effective Is Paper Trading?
Paper trading can be very effective because it allows individuals to test out new trading strategies, tools, and techniques before they actually put them into practice with live trading.




Is Paper Trading Real or Fake?
Paper trading is a way for investors to learn and practice buying and selling stocks and other securities before they start doing so with real money. While it doesn't use real money, paper trading does involve the use of real strategies and tools to get the same results. Keep in mind that there are no real returns and losses realized by the investor.




Are Paper Trading and Stock Simulators the Same Thing?
Paper trading is a form of stock simulation in that it involves buying and selling stocks without using real money. This type of simulation involves writing out trading requests on paper. Nowadays, paper trading can be done using electronic simulators online.


   The Bottom Line  

Trading can be very risky as the potential for loss is huge. But the same can be said about the possibility of making big returns. One way to help mitigate losses while raising the potential for gains is to try paper trading. This form of stock simulation allows you to test out and practice how to buy and sell stocks without putting up any capital before you do so in real life using a real account. In order for it to work, you must be realistic. Buy and sell the stocks you would in real life using the same amount of capital you'd deposit into a real account.
What Is Par Value?  

Par value, also known as nominal or original value, is the face value of a bond or the value of a stock certificate, as stated in the corporate charter.



Stock certificates issued for purchased shares show the par value. The par value of shares, or the stated value per share, is the lowest legal price for which a company sells its shares.



Par value is required for a bond or a fixed-income instrument and shows its maturity value and the dollar value of the coupon, or interest, payments due to the bondholder.





Key Takeaways

Par value, also known as nominal or original value, is the face value of a bond or the value of a stock certificate, as stated in the corporate charter.The face value of the stock stated in the corporate charter is often unrelated to the actual value of its shares trading on the open market.Par value is imperative for a bond or a fixed-income instrument because it defines its maturity value and the dollar value of coupon payments.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Understanding Par Value  

Par value is the face value of a bond and determines a bond or fixed-income instrument's maturity value as well as the dollar value of coupon payments. The market price of a bond may be above or below par, depending on factors such as the level of interest rates and its credit status. The par value for a bond is often $1,000 or $100, the usual denominations in which they are issued.



A share of stock's par value is stated in the corporate charter. Shares usually have no par value or low par value, such as one cent per share. Once defined, it is the lowest limit set to the value of a share of stock. The par value, however, is commonly unrelated to a stock's market price.






The terms "par value" and "face value" are interchangeable and refer to the stated value of a financial instrument at the time it is issued.






  Par Value of Bonds  

The par value is the amount of money a bond issuer promises to repay bondholders at maturity. Bondholders essentially loan money to the bond issuer.



Bonds can trade at a premium or a discount depending on the level of interest rates in the economy. A bond with a face value of $1,000 trading at $1,020 is trading at a premium, while another bond trading at $950 is considered a discount bond. Whether a bond is trading at a discount or premium, the issuer always repays the par value to the investor at maturity.



A bond's coupon rate determines whether a bond will trade at par, below par, or above par value. The coupon rate is the interest payment made to bondholders, annually or semi-annually, as compensation for loaning the bond issuer money. When market interest rates are lower, bonds trade above par. When market interest rates are higher, bonds trade at a discount.





Calculating Par Value

A stock's par value never fluctuates and is determined when shares are issued and formally stated on the stock certificate. A bond's par value is the face value of the bond plus coupon payments, annually or sem-annually, owed to the bondholders by the issuer of the debt.



A bond with a par value of $1,000 and a coupon rate of 4% will have annual interest payments of 4% x $1,000 = $40.



If a 4% coupon bond is issued when market interest rates are 4%, the bond is considered trading at par value since both market interest and coupon rates are equal.



If market interest rates rise to 5%, the value of the bond drops, and the bond will trade below par because the bond is paying a lower interest rate to its bondholders compared to the higher interest rate of 5% of other bonds in the market.



If market interest rates fall to 3%, the value of the bond will rise and trade above par since the 4% coupon rate is more attractive than 3%.



While the par value of a corporate bond is usually stated as either $100 or $1,000, municipal bonds typically have par values of $5,000. Treasury Bills are sold at a discount to par in multiples of $100.


  Par Value of Stocks  

Some states require that companies set a par value below which shares cannot be sold. To comply with state regulations, most companies set a par value for their stocks to a minimal amount. The par value for shares of Apple (AAPL) is $0.00001, and the par value for Amazon (AMZN) stock is $0.01.



Shares cannot be sold below this value upon initial public offering to reassure investors that no one is receiving preferential price treatment.



Some states allow the issuance of stock with no par value. An investor can identify no-par stocks on stock certificates as they will have "no par value" printed on them. The par value of a company's stock can be found in the Shareholders' Equity section of the balance sheet.


   Par Value vs. Market Value  

A financial instrument's par value is determined by the institution that issues it. Market value is the current price at which a bond or stock can be traded on the open market and constantly fluctuates as investors buy and sell bonds and shares of stock.



A bond can be purchased for more or less than its par value, depending on interest rates and market sentiment. Because shares of stocks are commonly issued with a par value near zero, the market value is often higher than the par value. Investors count on gains made by the changing value of a stock based on company performance and market sentiment.


   Why Par Value Is Important for Investors  

Par value is a primary component of fixed-income securities such as bonds and represents the value of a contractual agreement, a loan, between the issuing party and the bondholder. The issuer of a fixed-income security is liable to repay the lender the par value on the maturity date.



Companies issue shares of stock to raise equity, and those that issue par value stocks often do at a value inconsistent with the actual market value. This adjustment allows companies to minimize their and the shareholders’ contractual obligations, as par value carries a binding contract between an organization and its shareholders.




What Is a Bond's Par Value?
A bond is essentially a written promise that the amount loaned to the issuer will be repaid. The par value is the amount of money that the issuer promises to repay bondholders at the maturity date of the bond. The par value also determines the dollar value of coupon payments.




What Is a Stock's Par Value?
Par value is the stock's value stated in the corporate charter. Shares usually have no par value or low par value, such as one cent per share does not reflect a stock's market price. Some states require that companies set a par value below which shares cannot be sold.




Are Bonds Issued at Par Value?
Bonds are not necessarily issued at their par value. They could also be issued at a premium or a discount depending on the level of interest rates in the economy. A bond that is trading above par is said to be trading at a premium, while a bond trading below par is trading at a discount.




What Is the Relationship Between Coupon Rate and Par Value?
The coupon rate, the periodic interest payments made to bondholders as compensation for loaning the issuer the money, and the market interest rates determine whether a bond will trade at, below, or above its par value. If the coupon rate equals the interest rate, the bond will trade at its par value. If interest rates rise, the price of a lower-coupon bond must decline to offer the same yield to investors, causing it to trade below its par value. If interest rates fall, then the price of a higher-coupon bond will rise and trade above its par value since its coupon rate is more attractive.


   The Bottom Line  

Par value is the face value of a bond or the value of a stock certificate stated in the corporate charter. A stock's par value is often unrelated to the actual value of its shares trading on the stock market. Par value is required for a bond or a fixed-income instrument and defines its maturity value and the value of its required coupon payments.
What Is Par Value?  

Par value, also known as nominal or original value, is the face value of a bond or the value of a stock certificate, as stated in the corporate charter.



Stock certificates issued for purchased shares show the par value. The par value of shares, or the stated value per share, is the lowest legal price for which a company sells its shares.



Par value is required for a bond or a fixed-income instrument and shows its maturity value and the dollar value of the coupon, or interest, payments due to the bondholder.





Key Takeaways

Par value, also known as nominal or original value, is the face value of a bond or the value of a stock certificate, as stated in the corporate charter.The face value of the stock stated in the corporate charter is often unrelated to the actual value of its shares trading on the open market.Par value is imperative for a bond or a fixed-income instrument because it defines its maturity value and the dollar value of coupon payments.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Understanding Par Value  

Par value is the face value of a bond and determines a bond or fixed-income instrument's maturity value as well as the dollar value of coupon payments. The market price of a bond may be above or below par, depending on factors such as the level of interest rates and its credit status. The par value for a bond is often $1,000 or $100, the usual denominations in which they are issued.



A share of stock's par value is stated in the corporate charter. Shares usually have no par value or low par value, such as one cent per share. Once defined, it is the lowest limit set to the value of a share of stock. The par value, however, is commonly unrelated to a stock's market price.






The terms "par value" and "face value" are interchangeable and refer to the stated value of a financial instrument at the time it is issued.






  Par Value of Bonds  

The par value is the amount of money a bond issuer promises to repay bondholders at maturity. Bondholders essentially loan money to the bond issuer.



Bonds can trade at a premium or a discount depending on the level of interest rates in the economy. A bond with a face value of $1,000 trading at $1,020 is trading at a premium, while another bond trading at $950 is considered a discount bond. Whether a bond is trading at a discount or premium, the issuer always repays the par value to the investor at maturity.



A bond's coupon rate determines whether a bond will trade at par, below par, or above par value. The coupon rate is the interest payment made to bondholders, annually or semi-annually, as compensation for loaning the bond issuer money. When market interest rates are lower, bonds trade above par. When market interest rates are higher, bonds trade at a discount.





Calculating Par Value

A stock's par value never fluctuates and is determined when shares are issued and formally stated on the stock certificate. A bond's par value is the face value of the bond plus coupon payments, annually or sem-annually, owed to the bondholders by the issuer of the debt.



A bond with a par value of $1,000 and a coupon rate of 4% will have annual interest payments of 4% x $1,000 = $40.



If a 4% coupon bond is issued when market interest rates are 4%, the bond is considered trading at par value since both market interest and coupon rates are equal.



If market interest rates rise to 5%, the value of the bond drops, and the bond will trade below par because the bond is paying a lower interest rate to its bondholders compared to the higher interest rate of 5% of other bonds in the market.



If market interest rates fall to 3%, the value of the bond will rise and trade above par since the 4% coupon rate is more attractive than 3%.



While the par value of a corporate bond is usually stated as either $100 or $1,000, municipal bonds typically have par values of $5,000. Treasury Bills are sold at a discount to par in multiples of $100.


  Par Value of Stocks  

Some states require that companies set a par value below which shares cannot be sold. To comply with state regulations, most companies set a par value for their stocks to a minimal amount. The par value for shares of Apple (AAPL) is $0.00001, and the par value for Amazon (AMZN) stock is $0.01.



Shares cannot be sold below this value upon initial public offering to reassure investors that no one is receiving preferential price treatment.



Some states allow the issuance of stock with no par value. An investor can identify no-par stocks on stock certificates as they will have "no par value" printed on them. The par value of a company's stock can be found in the Shareholders' Equity section of the balance sheet.


   Par Value vs. Market Value  

A financial instrument's par value is determined by the institution that issues it. Market value is the current price at which a bond or stock can be traded on the open market and constantly fluctuates as investors buy and sell bonds and shares of stock.



A bond can be purchased for more or less than its par value, depending on interest rates and market sentiment. Because shares of stocks are commonly issued with a par value near zero, the market value is often higher than the par value. Investors count on gains made by the changing value of a stock based on company performance and market sentiment.


   Why Par Value Is Important for Investors  

Par value is a primary component of fixed-income securities such as bonds and represents the value of a contractual agreement, a loan, between the issuing party and the bondholder. The issuer of a fixed-income security is liable to repay the lender the par value on the maturity date.



Companies issue shares of stock to raise equity, and those that issue par value stocks often do at a value inconsistent with the actual market value. This adjustment allows companies to minimize their and the shareholders’ contractual obligations, as par value carries a binding contract between an organization and its shareholders.




What Is a Bond's Par Value?
A bond is essentially a written promise that the amount loaned to the issuer will be repaid. The par value is the amount of money that the issuer promises to repay bondholders at the maturity date of the bond. The par value also determines the dollar value of coupon payments.




What Is a Stock's Par Value?
Par value is the stock's value stated in the corporate charter. Shares usually have no par value or low par value, such as one cent per share does not reflect a stock's market price. Some states require that companies set a par value below which shares cannot be sold.




Are Bonds Issued at Par Value?
Bonds are not necessarily issued at their par value. They could also be issued at a premium or a discount depending on the level of interest rates in the economy. A bond that is trading above par is said to be trading at a premium, while a bond trading below par is trading at a discount.




What Is the Relationship Between Coupon Rate and Par Value?
The coupon rate, the periodic interest payments made to bondholders as compensation for loaning the issuer the money, and the market interest rates determine whether a bond will trade at, below, or above its par value. If the coupon rate equals the interest rate, the bond will trade at its par value. If interest rates rise, the price of a lower-coupon bond must decline to offer the same yield to investors, causing it to trade below its par value. If interest rates fall, then the price of a higher-coupon bond will rise and trade above its par value since its coupon rate is more attractive.


   The Bottom Line  

Par value is the face value of a bond or the value of a stock certificate stated in the corporate charter. A stock's par value is often unrelated to the actual value of its shares trading on the stock market. Par value is required for a bond or a fixed-income instrument and defines its maturity value and the value of its required coupon payments.
What Is a Par Yield Curve?  

A par yield curve is a graphical representation of the yields of hypothetical Treasury securities with prices at par. On the par yield curve, the coupon rate will equal the yield to maturity (YTM) of the security, which is why the Treasury bond will trade at par.



The par yield curve can be compared with the spot yield curve and the forward yield curve for Treasuries.





Key Takeaways

The par yield curve interpolates the yield curve for Treasury securities based on all maturities being prices at par value.At par value, the interest rate would need to be identical to the coupon rate paid on the bond.The par yield will typically fall below both the spot and forward yield curves under normal circumstances.


   Understanding Par Yield Curves  

The yield curve is a graph that shows the relationship between interest rates and bond yields of various maturities, ranging from three-month Treasury bills to 30-year Treasury bonds. The graph is plotted with the y-axis depicting interest rates and the x-axis showing the increasing time durations.



Since short-term bonds typically have lower yields than longer-term bonds, the curve slopes upwards to the right. When the yield curve is spoken of, this usually refers to the spot yield curve, specifically, the spot yield curve for risk-free bonds. However, there are some instances where another type of yield curve is referred to—the par yield curve.



The par yield curve graphs the YTM of coupon-paying bonds of different maturity dates. The yield to maturity is the return that a bond investor expects to make assuming the bond will be held until maturity. A bond that is issued at par has a YTM that is equal to the coupon rate. As interest rates fluctuate over time, the YTM either increases or decreases to reflect the current interest rate environment.



For example, if interest rates decrease after a bond has been issued, the value of the bond will increase given that the coupon rate affixed to the bond is now higher than the interest rate. In this case, the coupon rate will be higher than the YTM. In effect, the YTM is the discount rate at which the sum of all future cash flows from the bond (that is, coupons and principal) is equal to the current price of the bond.



A par yield is the coupon rate at which bond prices are zero. A par yield curve represents bonds that are trading at par. In other words, the par yield curve is a plot of the yield to maturity against term to maturity for a group of bonds priced at par. It is used to determine the coupon rate that a new bond with a given maturity will pay in order to sell at par today. The par yield curve gives a yield that is used to discount multiple cash flows for a coupon-paying bond. It uses the information in the spot yield curve, also known as the zero percent coupon curve, to discount each coupon by the appropriate spot rate.



Since duration is longer on the spot yield curve, the curve will always lie above the par yield curve when the par yield curve is upward sloping, and lie below the par yield curve when the par yield curve is downward sloping.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   Deriving the Par Yield Curve  

Deriving a par yield curve is one step toward creating a theoretical spot rate yield curve, which is then used to more accurately price a coupon-paying bond. A method known as bootstrapping is used to derive the arbitrage-free forward interest rates. Since Treasury bills offered by the government do not have data for every period, the bootstrapping method is used mainly to fill in the missing figures in order to derive the yield curve. For example, consider these bonds with face values of $100 and maturities of six months, one year, 18 months, and two years.












 Maturity (years)
 0.5
 1
 1.5
 2


 Par yield
 2%
 2.3%
 2.6%
 3%






Since coupon payments are made semi-annually, the six-month bond has only one payment. Its yield is, therefore, equal to the par rate, which is 2%. The one-year bond will have two payments made after six months. The first payment will be $100 x (0.023/2) = $1.15. This interest payment should be discounted by 2%, which is the spot rate for six months. The second payment will be the sum of the coupon payment and principal repayment = $1.15 + $100 = $101.15. We need to find the rate at which this payment should be discounted to get a par value of $100. The calculation is:



$100 = $1.15/(1 + (0.02/2)) + $101.15/(1 + (x/2)) 2$100 = 1.1386 + $101.15/(1 + (x/2))2$98.86 = $101.15/(1 + (x/2)) 2(1 + (x/2)) 2 = $101.15/$98.861 + (x/2) = √1.0232x/2 = 1.0115 – 1x = 2.302%



This is the zero-coupon rate for a one-year bond or the one-year spot rate. We can calculate the spot rate for the other bonds maturing in 18 months and two years using this process.
What Is the Parabolic SAR Indicator?  

The parabolic SAR indicator, developed by J. Wells Wilder, is used by traders to determine trend direction and potential reversals in price. The indicator uses a trailing stop and reverse method called "SAR," or stop and reverse, to identify suitable exit and entry points. Traders also refer to the indicator as to the parabolic stop and reverse, parabolic SAR, or PSAR.



The parabolic SAR indicator appears on a chart as a series of dots, either above or below an asset's price, depending on the direction the price is moving. A dot is placed below the price when it is trending upward, and above the price when it is trending downward.





Key Takeaways

The parabolic SAR (stop and reverse) indicator is used by technical traders to spot trends and reversals.The indicator utilizes a system of dots superimposed onto a price chart.A reversal occurs when these dots flip, but a reversal signal in the SAR does not necessarily mean a reversal in the price. A PSAR reversal only means that the price and indicator have crossed.


   The Formula for the Parabolic SAR Indicator  

A rising PSAR has a slightly different formula than a falling PSAR.


















RPSAR


=


Prior PSAR 


+
















[


Prior AF



(


Prior EP-Prior PSAR


)



]
















FPSAR


=


Prior PSAR 


−
















[


Prior AF



(


Prior PSAR-Prior EP


)



]
















where:
















RPSAR = Rising PSAR
















AF = Acceleration Factor, it starts at 0.02 and
















increases by 0.02, up to a maximum of 0.2, each
















time the extreme point makes a new low (falling
















SAR


)


 or high



(


rising SAR


)

















FPSAR = Falling PSAR
















EP = Extreme Point, the lowest low in the current
















downtrend



(


falling SAR


)



or the highest high in the
















current uptrend



(


rising SAR


)








\begin{aligned} &\text{RPSAR}=\text{Prior PSAR }+\\ &[\text{Prior AF}\left(\text{Prior EP-Prior PSAR}\right)]\\ &\text{FPSAR}=\text{Prior PSAR }-\\ &[\text{Prior AF}\left(\text{Prior PSAR-Prior EP}\right)]\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{RPSAR = Rising PSAR}\\ &\text{AF = Acceleration Factor, it starts at 0.02 and}\\ &\text{increases by 0.02, up to a maximum of 0.2, each}\\ &\text{time the extreme point makes a new low (falling}\\ &\text{SAR})\text{ or high}\left(\text{rising SAR}\right)\\ &\text{FPSAR = Falling PSAR}\\ &\text{EP = Extreme Point, the lowest low in the current}\\ &\text{downtrend}\left(\text{falling SAR}\right)\text{or the highest high in the}\\ &\text{current uptrend}\left(\text{rising SAR}\right)\\ \end{aligned}


​RPSAR=Prior PSAR +[Prior AF(Prior EP-Prior PSAR)]FPSAR=Prior PSAR −[Prior AF(Prior PSAR-Prior EP)]where:RPSAR = Rising PSARAF = Acceleration Factor, it starts at 0.02 andincreases by 0.02, up to a maximum of 0.2, eachtime the extreme point makes a new low (fallingSAR) or high(rising SAR)FPSAR = Falling PSAREP = Extreme Point, the lowest low in the currentdowntrend(falling SAR)or the highest high in thecurrent uptrend(rising SAR)​


   How to Calculate the Parabolic SAR Indicator  

There are lots of things to track when using the parabolic stop and reverse indicator. One thing to constantly keep in mind is that if the SAR is initially rising, and the price has a close below the rising SAR value, then the trend is now down and the falling SAR formula will be used. If the price rises above the falling SAR value, then switch to the rising formula.



Monitor price for at least five periods or more, recording the high and low (EPs).If the price is rising, use the lowest low of those five periods as the prior PSAR value in the formula. If the price is falling, use the highest high of those periods as the initial prior PSAR value.Use an AF of 0.02 initially, and increase by 0.02 for each new extreme high (rising) or low (falling). The maximum AF value is 0.2.Ideally, utilize a spreadsheet where the high and low price, SAR, EP, and AF can be tracked on a period-by-period basis.






Charting software automatically calculates the PSAR, which means traders only need to know how to interpret the indicator’s signals.


   What Does the Parabolic SAR Indicator Tell You?  

The parabolic indicator generates buy or sell signals when the position of the dots moves from one side of the asset's price to the other. For example, a buy signal occurs when the dots move from above the price to below the price, while a sell signal occurs when the dots move from below the price to above the price.



Traders also use the PSAR dots to set trailing stop loss orders. For example, if the price is rising, and the PSAR is also rising, the PSAR can be used as a possible exit if long. If the price drops below the PSAR, exit the long trade.















TradingView.



The PSAR moves regardless of whether the price moves. This means that if the price is rising initially, but then moves sideways, the PSAR will keep rising despite the sideways movement in price. A reversal signal will be generated at some point, even if the price hasn't dropped. The PSAR only needs to catch up to price to generate a reversal signal. For this reason, a reversal signal on the indicator doesn't necessarily mean the price is reversing.



The parabolic indicator generates a new signal each time it moves to the opposite side of an asset's price. This ensures a position in the market always, which makes the indicator appealing to active traders. The indicator works most effectively in trending markets where large price moves allow traders to capture significant gains. When a security’s price is range-bound, the indicator will constantly be reversing, resulting in multiple low-profit or losing trades.



For best results, traders should use the parabolic indicator with other technical indicators that indicate whether a market is trending or not, such as the average directional index (ADX), a moving average (MA), or a trendline. For example, traders might confirm a PSAR buy signal with an ADX reading above 30 and a bounce for a long-term rising trendline.


   The Parabolic SAR vs. a Moving Average (MA)  

The PSAR and MAs both track the price and help show the trend, but they do it using different formulas.



An MA takes the average price over a selected number of periods and then plots it on the chart. The PSAR looks at extreme highs and lows and then applies an acceleration factor. These varying formulas look very different on the chart and will provide different analytical insights and trade signals.


   Limitations of Using the Parabolic SAR Indicator  

The parabolic SAR is always on, and constantly generating signals, whether there is a quality trend or not. Therefore, many signals may be of poor quality because no significant trend is present or develops following a signal.



Reversal signals are also generated, eventually, regardless of whether the price actually reverses. This is because a reversal is generated when the SAR catches up to the price due to the acceleration factor in the formula. Therefore, a reversal signal may get a trader out of a trade even though the price hasn't technically reversed.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is the Paradox of Thrift?  

The paradox of thrift, or paradox of savings, is an economic theory that posits that personal savings are a net drag on the economy during a recession. This theory relies on the assumption that prices do not clear or that producers fail to adjust to changing conditions, contrary to the expectations of classical microeconomics. The paradox of thrift was popularized by British economist John Maynard Keynes.





Key Takeaways

The paradox of thrift is an economic theory that argues that personal savings can be detrimental to overall economic growth. It is based on a circular flow of the economy in which current spending drives future spending.It calls for a lowering of interest rates to boost spending levels during an economic recession.Critics of the theory state that it ignores Say's law, which calls for investment in capital goods before any level of spending can be achieved, and does not take into account inflation or deflation in prices.


   Understanding the Paradox of Thrift  

According to Keynesian theory, the proper response to an economic recession is more spending, more risk-taking, and fewer savings. Keynesians believe a recessed economy does not produce at full capacity because some of its factors of production (land, labor, and capital) are unemployed.



Keynesians also argue that consumption, or spending, drives economic growth. Thus, even though it makes sense for individuals and households to reduce consumption during tough times, this is the wrong prescription for the larger economy.



A pullback in aggregate consumer spending might force businesses to produce even less, deepening the recession. This disconnect between individual and group rationality is the basis of the savings paradox. An example of this was witnessed during the Great Recession that followed the financial crisis of 2008. During that time, the savings rate for the average American household increased from 2.9 % to 5%. The Federal Reserve slashed interest rates in order to boost spending in the American economy.



The first conceptual description of the paradox of thrift may have been written in Bernard Mandeville’s “The Fable of the Bees” (1714). Mandeville argued for increased expenditure as the key to prosperity, rather than savings. Keynes credited Mandeville for the concept in his book “The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money” (1936).


   Circular Flow Economic Model  

Keynes helped revive the circular flow model of the economy. This theory states that an increase in current spending drives future spending. Current spending, after all, results in more income for current producers. Those producers rationally deploy their new income, sometimes expanding business and hiring new workers; these new workers earn new income, which then may be spent.



To boost current spending, Keynes argued for lower interest rates to lower current savings rates. If low interest rates do not create more borrowing and spending, Keynes said, the government could engage in deficit spending to fill the gap.


   Limitations of the Paradox of Thrift  

The circular flow model ignores the lesson of Say’s law, which states goods must be produced before they can be exchanged. Capital machines, which drive higher levels of production, require additional savings and investment. The circular flow model only works in a framework without capital goods.



Also, the theory ignores the potential for inflation or deflation. If higher current spending causes future prices to rise concordantly, future production and employment will remain unchanged. Similarly, if current thrift during a recession forces future prices to fall, future production and employment need not decline as Keynes predicted.



Finally, the paradox of thrift ignores the potential for saved income to be lent out by banks. When some individuals increase their savings, interest rates tend to fall, and banks make additional loans.



Keynes met these objections by arguing Say’s law was wrong and prices are too rigid to adjust efficiently. Economists remain divided about sticky prices. It is widely accepted that Keynes misrepresented Say’s law in his refutation.


   Examples of the Paradox of Thrift  

Ivan owns a factory that produces component parts for computers. The factory is among town XYZ's biggest employers. He has been planning to expand his production capacity by installing more machines and hiring new workers.



However, a recession strikes and Ivan reverts to savings mode. He lays off workers and discontinues operating the machines at night time. Unemployed factory workers, who do not have income to spend, also begin saving, reducing demand for goods produced by Ivan's factory. The unemployed factory workers also add to the town's overall spending on social benefits and its economy becomes weak.



A real world example of the savings paradox during the Great Recession was the case of 25- to 29-year-olds who moved in with their parents. The percentage of such people increased from 14% in 2005 to 19% in 2011. While the move helped families save money on rent and other expenses, it caused estimated damages of as much as $25 billion per year to the economy.﻿﻿
What Is a Parent Company?  

A parent company is a company that has a controlling interest in another company, giving it control of its operations. Parent companies can be either hands-on or hands-off owners of its subsidiaries, depending on the amount of managerial control given to subsidiary managers, but will always maintain a certain level of active control.





Key Takeaways

A parent company is a single company that has a controlling interest in another company or companies.Parent companies are formed when they spin-off or carve out subsidiaries, or through an acquisition or merger.Parent companies must account for their subsidiaries appropriately on their financial statements and for tax purposes.


   How a Parent Company Works  

Parent companies can be conglomerates, made up of a number of different, seemingly unrelated businesses, like General Electric (GE), whose diverse business units are able to benefit from cross-branding. A parent company, however, is different from a holding company. Parent companies conduct their own business operations, unlike holding or shell companies which are set up specifically to passively own a group of subsidiaries—often for tax purposes.



Parent companies and their subsidiaries may be horizontally integrated, like Gap Inc, which owns the Old Navy and Banana Republic subsidiaries. Or they may be vertically integrated, by owning several companies at different stages along the production or the supply chain. For instance, AT&T’s acquisition of Time Warner meant that it became owner of both the film production business and broadcasters that sold those productions to audiences, in addition to its telecommunications networks that provided the media infrastructure.


   Becoming a Parent Company  

The two most common ways companies become parent companies are either through the acquisitions of smaller companies or through spin-offs.



Larger companies often buy out smaller companies to alleviate competition, broaden their operations, reduce overhead, or to gain synergies. For example, Meta (META), formerly Facebook, acquired Instagram to increase overall user engagement and strengthen its own platform, while Instagram benefits from having an additional platform on which to advertise and more users. Meta, however, has not exerted too much control, keeping an autonomous team in place, including its original founders and CEO.



Businesses that want to streamline their operations often spin off less productive or unrelated subsidiary businesses. For instance, a company might spin off one of its mature business units that are not growing, so it can focus on a product or service with better growth prospects. On the other hand, if a part of the business is headed in a different direction and has different strategic priorities from the parent company, it may be spun off so it can unlock value as an independent operation—and perhaps be put up for sale.


   Special Considerations  

Because parent companies own more than 50% of the voting stock in a subsidiary, they have to produce consolidated financial statements that combine the parent and subsidiary financial statements into one larger set of financial statements—and which eliminate any and all overlaps, such as inter-company transfers, payments, and loans.



These combined financial statements provide a picture of the overall health of the entire group of companies as opposed to one company's standalone position. If the ownership stake of the parent company is less than 100%, a minority interest is recorded on the balance sheet to account for the portion of the subsidiary that is not owned by the parent company.
What Is Pareto Analysis?  

Pareto analysis is a technique used for business decision-making, but which also has applications in several different fields from welfare economics to quality control. It is based largely on the "80-20 rule." As a decision-making technique, Pareto analysis statistically separates a limited number of input factors—either desirable or undesirable—which have the greatest impact on an outcome.



Pareto analysis is premised on the idea that 80% of a project's benefit can be achieved by doing 20% of the work—or, conversely, 80% of problems can be traced to 20% of the causes. Pareto analysis is a powerful quality and decision-making tool. In the most general sense, it is a technique for getting the necessary facts needed for setting priorities.





Key Takeaways

As a decision-making technique, Pareto analysis statistically separates a limited number of input factors—either desirable or undesirable—which have the greatest impact on an outcome.Pareto analysis states that 80% of a project's benefit or results are achieved from 20% of the work—or conversely, 80% of problems can be traced to 20% of the causes.With Pareto analysis, each problem or benefit is given a numerical score based on the level of impact on the company; the higher the score, the greater its impact.Modern-day applications of Pareto analysis are used to determine which issues cause the most problems within various different departments, organizations, or sectors of a business.By allocating resources to issues with higher scores, companies can use Pareto analysis to solve problems more efficiently because they can target those problems that have a greater impact on the business.


   Understanding Pareto Analysis  

In 1906, Italian economist Vilfredo Pareto discovered that 80% of the land in Italy was owned by just 20% of the people in the country. He extended his research and determined that this disproportionate wealth distribution was the same across all of Europe. The 80-20 rule was formally defined as follows: The top 20% of a country’s population accounts for an estimated 80% of the country’s wealth or total income.



Joseph Juran, a Romanian-American business theorist, discovered Pareto’s research in 1937, approximately 40 years after it was published. Juran proceeded to rename the 80-20 rule as "Pareto’s Principle of Unequal Distribution."



Juran extended Pareto’s principle to the business world in order to understand whether the rule could be applied to problems faced by businesses. He observed that in quality control departments, most production defects resulted from a small percentage of the causes of all defects. So, by extension, 80% of the problems are caused by 20% of the defects; the implications of Juran's work are that if you focus on fixing that 20%, you could have a big impact with minimal effort.






Joseph Juran, a Romanian-American engineer and management consultant, coined the terms “vital few,” “useful many,” and “trivial many” to refer to the few contributions that account for the bulk of the effect, and to the many other contributions that account for a smaller proportion of the effect.



Modern-day applications of Pareto analysis are used to determine which issues cause the most problems within different departments, organizations, or sectors of a business.



Typically, Pareto analysis is employed by business managers, whose approach typically involves conducting a statistical analysis, such as a cause and effect analysis, to produce a list of potential problems and the outcomes of these problems. Following the information provided by the cause and effect analysis, the 80-20 rule can be applied. Here are some scenarios relevant to businesses where Pareto analysis might be applicable:



Sharing information about defects/errors with high priority stakeholdersPrioritizing defects or tasks according to their severity, i.e. according to their impact on a system or businessAnalyzing data or errors/defects


   Steps of Pareto Analysis  

By applying the 80-20 rule, problems can be sorted based on whether they affect profits, customer complaints, technical issues, product defects, or delays and backlogs from missed deadlines. Each of these issues is given a rating based on the amount of revenue or sales, and time lost, or the number of complaints received. Here is a basic breakdown of the steps of Pareto analysis:



Identify the problem or problems
List or identify the cause of the issues or problems, noting that there could be multiple causes
Score the problems by assigning a number to each one that prioritizes the problem based on the level of negative impact on the company
Organize the problems into groups, such as customer service or system issues
Develop and implement an action plan, focusing on the higher scored problems first, in order to solve the problems



Not all problems will have a high score, and some smaller problems may not be worth pursuing initially. By allocating resources to high-impact issues or higher scores, companies can solve problems more efficiently by targeting the issues that have a major impact on profits, sales, or customers.






Pareto analysis shows that a disproportionate improvement can be achieved by ranking various causes of a problem and concentrating on the solutions with the largest impact.


   How to Create a Pareto Chart  

A common part of Pareto analysis is to graphically depict the occurrence of each variable being tracked. This depiction is called a Pareto chart, and it organizes and displays information to show the relative importance of various problems or causes of problems. It is similar to a vertical bar graph in that it puts items in order (from the highest to the lowest) relative to some measurable effect of interest: frequency, cost, or time. Here is the process of making a Pareto chart.



Develop a list of problems to be compared.Develop a standard measure for comparing the items. For example, how often it occurs: frequency (e.g., utilization, complications, errors); how long it takes (time); how many resources it uses (cost).Choose a timeframe for collecting the data.For each item, tally how often it occurred (or cost or total time). Then, add these amounts to determine the grand total for all items.Find the percent of each item in the grand total by taking the sum of the item, dividing it by the grand total, and multiplying by 100.List the items being compared in decreasing order of the measure of comparison: e.g., the most frequent to the least frequent. The cumulative percent for an item is the sum of that item’s percent of the total and that of all the other items that come before it in the ordering by rank.List the items on the horizontal axis of a graph from highest to lowest. Label the left vertical axis with the numbers (frequency, time, or cost).Label the right vertical axis with the cumulative percentages (the cumulative total should equal 100%).Draw in the bars for each item.Draw a line graph of the cumulative percentages. The first point on the line graph should line up with the top of the first bar.



The final step is analysis. You can now analyze a Pareto chart by identifying those items that appear to account for most of the difficulty. In the example below, the Institute for Healthcare Improvement identified three vital types of errors discovered during surgical set-up.















Pareto Chart Example.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Pareto Analysis  

In the most general sense, the advantage of Pareto analysis is that it helps to identify and determine the root causes of defects or problems. It also helps to save time by focusing on the root causes of the problem at hand. In business, the most important resource is time and due to time, the goals usually are not to eliminate or maximize but rather to optimize. And the Pareto rule helps with optimization. Hence, businesses are able to resolve defects or errors with the highest priority first.



Pareto charts can specifically help determine the cumulative impact of a problem. Cumulative impact results from effects caused by a problem happening over a long period of time. Pareto charts are especially useful for businesses or organizations because they can use them to plan the measures or actions that need to be taken in order to amend the problems. For this reason, Pareto charts can sharpen problem-solving and decision-making skills: problems related to a defect or error can be distilled into cohesive facts.



The main disadvantage of Pareto analysis is that it does not provide solutions to issues; it is only helpful for determining or identifying the root causes of a problem(s). In addition, Pareto analysis only focuses on past data. While information about past errors or problems is useful, it's not a guarantee that it will be relevant in future scenarios.



A final disadvantage of Pareto charts is that they can only show qualitative data that can be observed; they cannot be used to represent quantitative data. For example, Pareto charts cannot be used to calculate the mean, the standard deviation, or the average of the data, its variability, or changes in the measured attribute over time.





Advantages

Helps to identify and determine the root causes of defects or problems
Organizations can eliminate or resolve defects or errors with the highest priority first
Determine the cumulative impact of a problem, where cumulative impact is defined as an effect that is being caused due to a problem happening over a long period of time
Organizations can use Pareto charts to plan what measures or actions need to be taken in order to amend problems
Pareto charts can sharpen problem-solving and decision-making skills



Disadvantages

Does not provide solutions to issues; only helpful for determining or identifying the root causes of a problem(s)
Only focuses on past data
Pareto charts can only show qualitative data that can be observed; they cannot be used to represent quantitative data





   Example of Pareto Analysis  

The Department of Ecology for the state of Washington recently performed a study to identify why oil spills happen. They gather information on 209 oil spill incidents including internal peer review of the causes and potentially factored in input from responsible parties.



In total, the Department of Ecology identify dozens of causes for oil spills. It identified the primary causes as:



Inattention/distraction (38 times cited)Procedural Error (31)Judgment (26)Mechanical Failure (23)Structural Failure (20)Unknown Causes (11)



The total number of explanations above (six) represents a little bit more than 20% of the total causes identified (29 total casual factors). However, these six causes cumulatively were responsible for 71% (149 of 209 cases) of oil spills identified. In this example of Pareto analysis, only a few data items are primarily responsible for most causes of oil spills.















Pareto Analysis (WA DoE Oil Spills).


   Special Considerations  

It's important to note that Pareto analysis does not provide solutions to issues, but only helps businesses to identify and narrow down the most significant causes of the majority of their problems. Once the causes have been identified, the company must then create strategies to address those problems.



Pareto analysis will typically show that a disproportionate improvement can be achieved by ranking various causes of a problem and by concentrating on those solutions or items with the largest impact. The basic premise is that not all inputs have the same or even proportional impact on a given output. This type of decision-making can be used in many fields of endeavor, from government policy to individual business decisions.




What Is Pareto Analysis Used for?
Pareto analysis is used to identify problems or strengths within an organization. As an overwhelming amount of impact is often tied to a relatively smaller proportion of a company, Pareto analysis strives to identify the more material issues worth resolving or the more successful aspects of a business.




What Is the Importance of Pareto Analysis?
Pareto analysis enables an entity to be more efficient with its resources. By quickly identifying a major issue or capitalizing on a major business success, the company can spend less time and resources focusing on less impactful aspects of the company.




How Is a Pareto Chart Different From a Standard Vertical Bar Graph?
A vertical bar graph is a type of graph that visually displays data using vertical bars going up from the bottom. In a vertical bar graph, the lengths are proportional to the quantities they represent. Vertical bar graphs are typically utilized when one axis cannot have a numerical scale.A Pareto chart is a type of chart that contains both bars and a line graph, where individual values are represented in descending order by bars, and the cumulative total is represented by the line. A Pareto chart is different from a vertical bar graph because the bars are positioned in order of decreasing height, with the tallest bar on the left.




What Is Pareto Efficiency?
Pareto efficiency is a state of the economy where resources cannot be reallocated to provide more advantages for one individual without making at least one individual worse off. Pareto efficiency implies that resources are allocated in the most economically efficient manner. However, this state does not guarantee equality or fairness.




What Is an Example of Pareto Analysis?
Imagine a hypothetical example where a company is analyzing why its products are being shipped late. It comes up with 20 various reasons on what may be causing the delay.Pareto analysis holds the claim that of those 20 various reasons, roughly four of those items will be the primary cause of roughly 80% of the shipping delays. The company undertakes an analysis to track how many instances of each reason occurs.Pareto analysis isn't exact; the company may find that five reasons are causing 75% of the company's delays. Still, in principle, the fact remains that only several items are the primary drivers for a majority of outcomes. The company must focus its resources on these five reasons to make the most impactful positive change to its delivery processes.


   The Bottom Line  

When there seems to be too many options to choose from or its difficult to assess what is most important within a company, Pareto analysis attempts to identify the more crucial and impactful options. The analysis helps identify which tasks hold the most weight as opposed to which tasks have less of an impact. By leveraging Pareto analysis, a company can more efficiently and effectively approach its decision-making process.
What Is Pareto Efficiency?  

Pareto efficiency, or Pareto optimality, is an economic state where resources cannot be reallocated to make one individual better off without making at least one individual worse off. Pareto efficiency implies that resources are allocated in the most economically efficient manner, but does not imply equality or fairness. An economy is said to be in a Pareto optimum state when no economic changes can make one individual better off without making at least one other individual worse off.



Pareto efficiency, named after the Italian economist and political scientist Vilfredo Pareto (1848-1923), is a major pillar of welfare economics. Neoclassical economics, alongside the theoretical construct of perfect competition, is used as a benchmark to judge the efficiency of real markets—though neither perfectly efficient nor perfectly competitive markets occur outside of economic theory.





Key Takeaways

Pareto efficiency is when an economy has its resources and goods allocated to the maximum level of efficiency, and no change can be made without making someone worse off.Pure Pareto efficiency exists only in theory, though the economy can move toward Pareto efficiency.Alternative criteria for economic efficiency based on Pareto efficiency are often used to make economic policy, as it is very difficult to make any change that will not make any one individual worse off.Pareto efficiency is measured along the production possibility frontier; when graphically depicted, combinations on the PFF represent efficient markets.Market failure occurs when inefficiency is not achieved either by leaving an individual worse off or by resources being unspent.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   Understanding Pareto Efficiency  

Hypothetically, if there were perfect competition and resources were used to maximum efficient capacity, then everyone would be at their highest standard of living or Pareto efficiency. Economists Kenneth Arrow and Gerard Debreu demonstrated, theoretically, that under the assumption of perfect competition and where all goods and services are tradeable in competitive markets with zero transaction costs, an economy will tend toward Pareto efficiency.



In any situation other than Pareto efficiency, some changes to the allocation of resources in an economy can be made, such that at least one individual gains and no individuals lose from the change. Only changes in the allocation of resources that meet this condition are considered moves toward Pareto efficiency. Such a change is called a Pareto improvement.



A Pareto improvement occurs when a change in allocation harms no one and helps at least one person, given an initial allocation of goods for a set of persons. The theory suggests that Pareto improvements will keep enhancing the value of an economy until it achieves a Pareto equilibrium, where no more Pareto improvements can be made. Conversely, when an economy is at Pareto efficiency, any change to the allocation of resources will make at least one individual worse off.






Pareto efficiency only deals in absolutes. An allocation of resources is either Pareto efficient or it isn't; there is no degree of efficiency when performing Pareto analysis.


   Pareto Efficiency in Practice  

In practice, it is almost impossible to take any social action, such as a change in economic policy, without making at least one person worse off, which is why other criteria of economic efficiency have found wider use in economics. This includes:



The Buchanan unanimity criterion under which a change is efficient if all members of society unanimously consent to it.
The Kaldor-Hicks efficiency under which a change is efficient if the gains to the winners of any change in allocation outweigh the damage to the losers.
The Coase Theorem which states that individuals can bargain over the gains and losses to reach an economically efficient outcome under competitive markets with no transaction cost.



These alternative criteria for economic efficiency all to some extent relax the strict requirements of pure Pareto efficiency in the pragmatic interest of real-world policy and decision-making.



Aside from applications in economics, the concept of Pareto improvements can be found in many scientific fields, where trade-offs are simulated and studied to determine the number and type of reallocation of resource variables necessary to achieve Pareto efficiency.



In the business world, factory managers may run Pareto improvement trials, in which they reallocate labor resources to try to boost the productivity of assembly workers without, for example, decreasing the productivity of the packing and shipping workers.


   Pareto Efficiency and Market Failure  

Market failure occurs when internal and external factors prevent an economy from reaching Pareto efficiency. It is aptly named because, in these situations, the market has failed to allocate optimally or efficiently.



Consider an example of a free public good such as a public park. The provider of the park may not be able to exclude individuals who do not contribute tax dollars, donations, or volunteer hours to the park. Therefore, the public good creates an opportunity for individuals to "free ride".



In addition, the consumption of the public good by one individual often does not compete with or reduce the benefit consumed by another individual. Therefore, public goods are often market inefficient because an increase in one person's consumption often does not result in a decrease of value to another.



In another example, consider a monopoly where a single producer sets the market price. In this monopoly, the market price is often set higher than the marginal cost of the product. Because price and marginal cost are not the same, market efficiency is not achieved and the optimal output is present.






If any resources are not utilized, Pareto efficiency has not been achieved as the market could have incurred additional units or benefit to some party.


   Pareto Efficiency and Production Possibility Frontier  

Pareto efficiency can be graphically depicted to more easily demonstrate the production possibility frontier. The production possibility frontier is all of the possible combinations of resources that yield market efficiency. Combinations that do not reside on the production possibility frontier are inefficient because additional resources can be allocated.



The graph below demonstrates the visualization of the production possibility frontier in a fictional economy that can only produce wine and cotton.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



The quantity of wine produced resides along the y-axis, and the quantity of cotton produced resides along the x-axis. The blue curve with a solid line represents the production possibility frontier where the maximum number of resources are being utilized. There are three different instances outlined in the graph above:



Point X: Because X does not reside along the production possibility frontier, it is inefficient. The market has unspent resources it could be using to further produce either wine or cotton.Points A, B, or C: All three points reside on the production possibility frontier. All three combinations use the maximum amount of market resources; therefore, Pareto efficiency is achieved at any of the three points.Point Y: Because Y does not reside along the production possibility frontier, it is not efficient. This point exceeds the resources available in a market; the economy simply can't produce these quantities based on available resources. In order for Point Y to become Pareto efficient, the production possibility must shift outward by having expanded capabilities/resources.


   Importance of Pareto Efficiency  

The importance of Pareto efficiency lies in its ability to serve as a benchmark for evaluating the efficiency of resource allocation in an economy. A Pareto-efficient allocation ensures that resources are allocated in the most efficient manner possible. This ensures that resources, especially scarce commodities, are allocated in the "best" way.



Pareto efficiency also helps to identify situations where resources are being wasted or underutilized. Using Pareto efficiency tables, analysts or decision-makers can seek to improve the overall efficiency of an economy. This is done by not only looking at how to allocate resources but by analyzing where existing resources may be getting sent and whether there is true benefit with existing allocations.



In this manner, Pareto efficiency is a useful tool for analyzing the distribution of resources in society. Often, as tax revenue is a limited resource, policymakers must take steps to address issues. However, there is also often controversy across departments. For example, should a fire department already be receiving a majority of funds from a city's department, some may feel it inequitable for the department to receive special one-time funds. On the other hand, Pareto efficiency incorporates the value generated by each city entity. Thus, Pareto efficiency is important in balancing equity and value.


   Limitations of Pareto Efficiency  

Even with its usefulness and strengths, there are limitations to Pareto efficiency. Below are some of the primary drawbacks of the tool.



Distribution Analysis: Pareto efficiency curves can be used to analyze equity, but they themselves do not automatically consider implications of fairness. Because this concept requires human intervention and analysis, the Pareto efficiency curve on its own does not consider moral distributions or equality across resource recipients.
Perfect Competition: Pareto efficiency assumes that markets are perfectly competitive, meaning that all buyers and sellers have equal market power and perfect information. In reality, however, markets are often imperfectly competitive. Some beings simply have more power than others.
Externalities: Pareto efficiency only considers the benefits and costs that accrue to the parties directly involved in a transaction, without taking into account any external effects on third parties. This means that Pareto-efficient allocations could still result in negative externalities. For example, consider externalities and resource allocations that cause pollution.
Transaction Costs: Pareto efficiency assumes that all transactions can be completed at zero cost, which is not always the case. Transaction costs such as the cost of negotiating contracts or the cost of enforcing property rights can affect the efficiency of resource allocation.
Difficult Comparisons: Pareto efficiency requires comparison of different individuals which can be difficult to do in practice. Not only may this be impossible due to the complexity of human nature, but it also requires potential moral or philosophical distinctions that are difficult to quantify. As such, Pareto efficiency may sometimes turn into a contentious issue in economics.


   Variations of Pareto Efficiency  

There are general variations of Pareto efficiency that dictate how efficient a decision or resource allocation may be. The most strict situation is a strongly Pareto allocation. A resource allocation is considered strongly Pareto efficient if it is not possible to make at least one individual better off without making any other individual worse off. This is a stricter condition than standard Pareto efficiency which only requires that no individual can be made better off without making someone else worse off.



On the other hand, a weakly Pareto allocation is an opposite variant. This is a less strict condition than standard Pareto efficiency, which only requires that there is no potential Pareto improvement. A weakly Pareto allocation is often associated with an allocation in which everyone is better off in a situation, though nobody is worse off.



A restricted Pareto efficiency takes into account additional constraints or preferences that may exist in a given situation. For example, a resource allocation may be considered Pareto efficient under certain environmental or social constraints. In these cases, even if it is not Pareto efficient under the standard definition, it may be under these special circumstances. Similar to a constrained Pareto, this concept may take into account that some resources may not be fully utilized due to institutional or legal constraints, and these barriers may be temporary.






Trying to prepare dinner for your family? Having a decision between varying food preferences is an exercise related to Pareto efficiency as resources must be allocated in the most efficient, beneficial way.


   Example of Pareto Efficiency  

Consider a government official reviewing two new programs: a transportation program and a housing stimulus program. The official has $1 million of unallocated public funding to distribute to the programs. Its top choices are:



$1 million to the transportation program, $0 to the housing program$500,000 to the transportation program, $500,000 to the housing program$0 to the transportation program, $1,000,000 to the housing program



In this example, all three choices are Pareto efficient. Because the funds are currently unallocated, there is no allocation that makes one program better off without making the other program worse off. Be mindful that Pareto efficiency does not equate fairness or equity in the allocation.



Consider the two additional options:



$750,000 to the transportation program, $500,000 to the housing program$1,000,000 to the transportation program, but it only ends up spending $600,000



The first additional option is not Pareto efficient because only $1,000,000 of capital is available. In order to award this amount to each of the programs, the official will have to make another program worse off (take funds from that program) to award.



The second additional option is also not Pareto efficient because resources are not utilized. The unspent $400,000 could have been allocated to the housing program; instead, it was not used.




What Are the 3 Conditions of Pareto Efficiency?
Three criteria must be met for market equilibrium to occur. There must be exchange efficiency, production efficiency, and output efficiency. Without all three occurring, market efficiency will occur.




What Is the Downside to Pareto Efficiency?
Pareto efficiency considers the overall distribution efficiency. However, it does not reflect the equity or distribution of resources among parties. Though the distribution of a resource may be efficient, it may not maximize overall social welfare or leave certain negatively impacted parties feeling worse off.




Is Pareto Efficiency Supported by Perfect or Imperfect Competition?
Pareto efficiency is supported by perfect competition. This is often in contrast to imperfect competition where there is often a greater opportunity for higher returns and better distribution when considering the prospective innovation and growth of the market size.




Why Is Pareto Efficiency Important?
Pareto efficiency is commonly used to compare various economic outcomes of proposed policies. Though the Pareto test has limitations as to which one to choose, it can be an indicator to inform analysts which option is most efficient and allocates resources with the least amount of waste. It is also an important psychological concept that helps decision-makers realize which individuals will be better off and which will be worse off based on market efficiency.


   The Bottom Line  

Pareto efficiency occurs when an economy is most efficiently allocating its goods. At this point, no further changes to the economy can be made without one party benefiting and one party becoming worse off. Often used to evaluate outcomes of public policy or decisions that impact larger groups of individuals, Pareto efficiency is heavily used in economics to determine competitive equilibrium.
What Is a Pareto Improvement?  

Under the rubric of neoclassical economic theory, a Pareto improvement occurs when a change in allocation harms no one and helps at least one person, given an initial allocation of goods for a set of persons. The theory states that Pareto improvements can keep enhancing value to an economy until it achieves a Pareto optimum, where no more Pareto improvements can be made.





Key Takeaways

A Pareto improvement is an improvement to a system when a change in allocation of goods harms no one and benefits at least one person.Pareto improvements are also referred to as "no-brainers" and are generally expected to be rare, due to the obvious and powerful incentive to make any available Pareto improvement.Analysis of Pareto improvements cannot distinguish between alternatives that create the same amount of improvement but favor different people or groups.


   Understanding Pareto Improvement  

Named after Vilfredo Pareto (1848-1923), an Italian economist and political scientist also renowned for the Pareto Principle, a Pareto improvement is an action that makes at least one person better off without making anyone worse off.



Given an initial allocation of goods or resources for a set of individuals, if a change in resources benefits at least one person while harming no one else, a Pareto improvement has been made. These improvements can continue to a point where the allocation is Pareto efficient—also known as Pareto optimal. At a Pareto optimum, no more changes can be made to the allocation without making someone worse off.



The goal of Pareto improvements in the general economy is to create a net benefit to society that also does not harm any member of the society. If a Pareto improvement is possible, it always makes sense to do. Colloquially, a Pareto improvement is also known as a "no-brainer," based on the supposition that only a person with no brain would not take a Pareto improvement.


   Pareto in Practice  

Aside from applications in economics, the concept of Pareto improvements can be found in the fields of life sciences, engineering, and any academic discipline where trade-offs are simulated and studied to determine the number and type of reallocation of resource variables necessary to achieve Pareto equilibrium.



In the business world, factory managers may run Pareto improvement trials in which, for example, they reallocate labor resources to try to boost the productivity of assembly workers without decreasing the productivity of the packing and shipping workers. If such an adjustment to production can be found, then the business should always make it. Failing to do so is like leaving money on the table.



Consumers can also consider Pareto improvements to the mix of goods that they consume. If some change to a consumer's behavior will allow them to enjoy more of some good, without sacrificing anything else, then such a move would be a Pareto improvement for that consumer. The consumer literally gets something for nothing by making a Pareto improvement.


   Pareto Critique  

Pareto improvements, along with Pareto efficiency, are criticized in the realm of political economy because they are alleged not to address issues of fairness among different groups of people. Pareto analysis can not distinguish between two different moves that are both Pareto improvements, but that favor different individuals or groups.



Pareto improvements inform only steps to reach an efficient state, not necessarily an "equitable" one based on the other ethical values of the decision-makers, especially if their goal is to do harm to some individuals or segments of the population in the name of "equity." For example, if by some reallocation of society's resources the wealthy class of a society is made better off without hurting the poor, then a Pareto improvement has been made.



Similarly, a change that can make the poor better off without making the rich worse off would also be a Pareto improvement. However, if policymakers' goal is to favor one group over another, or to harm or punish certain classes or individuals in the society, then Pareto analysis has little to say.



A more serious challenge to Pareto improvement is that Pareto improvements are often hard to find in practice, because of the obvious and powerful incentive to always make any available Pareto improvement. Most of the time, we should expect that if a Pareto improvement were possible, then it would have already been made, so true Pareto improvements should be rather rare.



An exception to this is a situation where the existing allocation of resources is based on notions of "equity" that have been put in place to deliberately harm some people. In this case, Pareto improvements may be easily available but forgone in the name of "equity."


   Pareto Improvement vs. Kaldor-Hicks Improvement  

It might still be possible to effect a change that represents a net gain for society but isn't a Pareto improvement. A Kaldor-Hicks improvement is designed to overcome this shortcoming of Pareto improvements. In a Kaldor-Hicks improvement, someone is made better off and someone else is made worse off, but the gains for the winners are larger than the losses to the losers.



So, with a Kaldor-Hicks improvement, there is a net gain for society when the gains and losses are all added together. These net gains should in theory be enough to compensate for the individuals' losses, though actual transfers from the winners to the losers may or may not occur and are not strictly necessary for a move to be a Kaldor-Hicks improvement.


   Examples of Pareto Improvement  

Suppose an equal amount of funds can be disbursed (ex nihilo) to two families, one rich and another poor. The amount helps lift the latter above the poverty level but does not make much difference to the overall income of the former.



Either way, this is a Pareto improvement as long as the disbursed funds are not first taken from someone and as long as the resulting distribution of real goods and services once the funds have been distributed and spent by the recipient does not result in anyone's consumption being reduced. In practice, both of these conditions are virtually impossible.



Another example of Pareto improvement is the case of two students exchanging lunchboxes. One of the students, who does not like cheeseburgers, gives their burger to another student who considers it delicious. Even though one of the students gives away their burger, no one is worse off and both students are satisfied with the trade exchange. This is an example of a Pareto improvement.
What Is the Pareto Principle?  

The Pareto Principle, named after economist Vilfredo Pareto, specifies that 80% of consequences come from 20% of the causes, asserting an unequal relationship between inputs and outputs. This principle serves as a general reminder that the relationship between inputs and outputs is not balanced. The Pareto Principle is also known as the Pareto Rule or the 80/20 Rule.





Key Takeaways

The Pareto Principle states that 80% of consequences come from 20% of the causes.The principle, which was derived from the imbalance of land ownership in Italy, is commonly used to illustrate the notion that not things are equal, and the minority owns the majority.Unlike other principles, the Pareto Principle is merely an observation, not law. Although broadly applied, it does not apply to every scenario.












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   Understanding the Pareto Principle  

The original observation of the Pareto Principle was linked to the relationship between wealth and population. According to what Pareto observed, 80% of the land in Italy was owned by 20% of the population. After surveying a number of other countries, he found the same applied abroad. For the most part, the Pareto Principle is an observation that things in life are not always distributed evenly.



The Pareto Principle can be applied in a wide range of areas such as manufacturing, management, and human resources. For instance, the efforts of 20% of a corporation's staff could drive 80% of the firm's profits. The Pareto Principle can be applied especially those businesses that are client-service based. It has been adopted by a variety of coaching and customer relationship management (CRM) software programs.



It can also be applied on a personal level. Time management is the most common use for the Pareto Principle, as most people tend to thinly spread out their time instead of focusing on the most important tasks. In terms of personal time management, 80% of your work-related output could come from only 20% of your time at work.


   Example of the Pareto Principle  

Financial advisory businesses commonly use the Pareto Principle to help manage their clients. The business is dependent on the advisor’s ability to provide excellent customer service, as its fees rely on its customers’ satisfaction. However, not every client provides the same amount of income to the advisor. If an advisory practice has 100 clients, according to the Pareto Principle, 80 percent of the financial advisor’s revenue should come from the top 20 clients. These 20 clients have the highest amount of assets and the highest fees charged.





Important

Advisory practices that have adopted the Pareto Principle have seen improvement in time management, productivity, and overall client satisfaction.



The Pareto Principle seems simple but is hard to implement for the typical financial advisor. The principle suggests that since 20 clients are paying 80 percent of the total fees, they should receive at least 80% of the customer service. Advisors should, therefore, spend most of their time cultivating the relationships of their top 20 clients.



However, as human nature suggests, this does not happen. Most advisors tend to spread out their time and services with less regard to a client’s status. If a client calls and has an issue, the advisor deals accordingly, regardless of how much income the client actually brings in to the advisor.



The principle has also led to advisors focusing on replicating their top 20% of clients, knowing that adding a client of that size immediately affects the bottom line.


   Advantages of the Pareto Principle  

There is a practical reason for applying the Pareto Principle. Simply, it can give you a window into who to reward or what to fix. For example, if 20% of the design flaws in a car are leading to 80% of the crashes, you can identify and fix those flaws. Similarly, if 20% of your customers are driving 80% of your sales, you may want to focus on those customers and reward them for their loyalty. In this sense, the Pareto Principle becomes a guide for how to allocate resources efficiently.


   Disadvantages of the Pareto Principle  

While the 80/20 split is true for Pareto's observation, that doesn't necessarily mean that it is always true. For instance, 30% of the workforce (or 30 out of 100 workers) may only complete 60% of the output. The remaining workers may not be as productive or may just be slacking off on the job. This further reiterates that the Pareto Principle is merely an observation and not necessarily a law.
What Is Pari-Passu?  

Pari-passu is a Latin phrase meaning "equal footing" that describes situations where two or more assets, securities, creditors, or obligations are equally managed without preference.



An example of pari-passu occurs during bankruptcy proceedings: When the court reaches a verdict, the court regards all creditors equally, and the trustee will repay them the same fractional amount as other creditors, and at the same time.



Pari-passu may describe certain clauses within a variety of financial vehicles, such as loans and bonds, which are debt instruments issued by companies to raise cash. Often, these clauses are in place to ensure the associated financial product functions as equal to all similar others.





Key Takeaways

Pari-passu is a Latin phrase meaning "equal footing."In finance, "equal footing" means that two or more parties to a financial contract or claim are all treated the same.Pari-passu is common in bankruptcy proceedings as well as debts such as parity bonds in which each party gets the same amount.Wills and trusts can also assign a pari-passu distribution where all the named parties share the assets equally.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   How Pari-Passu Works  

In finance, the term pari-passu can refer to loans, bonds, or classes of shares that have equal rights of payment or equal seniority. Pari-passu can describe any instance where two or more items can claim equal rights as the other.


  Equity Shares  

Within the marketplace, all new equity shares (called a secondary offering) have equal rights with existing shares or those that were previously issued. In that sense, the shares are pari-passu. Pari-passu can apply to common stock shares, for example, so that each shareholder has equal rights to claims for dividends, voting rights, and the liquidation of assets.


  Creditors  

However, pari-passu does not apply to creditors such as banks. If a company has debt or loans outstanding, there's a pecking order in which certain creditors are repaid first in the event of bankruptcy and liquidation of the company's assets.



As a result, pari-passu would not apply to creditors and shareholders since the creditors would be paid before the shareholders. So while shareholders and creditors are not pari-passu, these creditors, when compared to other creditors, are.


  Assets and Securities  

Pari-passu is also used to describe securities, such as stocks. Preferred stock has a higher priority over common stock, meaning that the holders of preferred shares receive the first payout if a company is dissolved. Stocks are considered pari-passu if they rank equally with preferred stock for dividends and liquidation.


  Wills and Trusts  

Wills and trusts can assign a pari-passu distribution where all the named parties share the assets equally. In other words, each of the named beneficiaries would get the same amount.


  Similar Products  

Often, identical items will be pari-passu, coming with the same benefits and costs as the other items with which they are grouped. In other situations, items may only be pari-passu in one or only certain aspects. For example, two competitors may offer two functionally identical widgets for the same price with superficial differences such as color. These widgets are functionally pari-passu but may be aesthetically different.


   Pari-Passu and Unsecured Debts  

Since an asset backs secured debts, they are often not fully equal to the other obligations held by the borrower. Since there is no asset supporting unsecured debts, there are greater instances of borrower default or bankruptcy. Further, a provider of unsecured financing may enact clauses that prevent a borrower from taking part in certain activities, such as the promising of assets for another debt to keep a position with regard to repayment.



A parity bond refers to two or more bond issues with equal rights of payment or equal seniority to one another. In other words, a parity bond is an issued bond with the same rights to a claim as any other bonds that have already been issued. For example, unsecured bonds have equal rights in that coupons may be claimed without any particular bond having priority over another. Therefore, unsecured bonds would be referred to as parity bonds with each other. Similarly, secured bonds are parity bonds with other secured bonds.






Pari-passu usually comes into play when dealing with unsecured debt obligations.


   Pari-Passu vs. Pro Rata  

Pro rata is another Latin term that means "in proportion." Usually, this term is used in situations where two parties have an unequal stake in a business or enterprise. If Party A has an 80% stake in a certain company and Party B has a 20% stake, a pro-rata division of profits would return 80% of the gains to A and 20% to B.



Counterintuitively, some pari-passu obligations might result in a pro-rata division of benefits. This is because the only way to ensure an equal footing is by dividing the asset in proportion to each party's contribution.



For example, consider a case of default where one creditor is owed $10,000, and another is owed $5,000. However, the debtor only has $6,000 in assets. If the debts are held pari-passu, the only equitable division is for the first creditor to receive $4,000 and the other to receive $2,000. By using a pro rata distribution, both creditors face proportionately equal losses.


   Example of Pari-Passu  

Parity bonds have equal rights to the coupon or nominal yield. In fixed-income investments, the coupon is the annual interest rate paid on a bond. Consider a $1,000 bond with a 7% coupon rate. The bond will pay $70 per year. If new bonds with a 5% coupon are issued as parity bonds, the new bonds will pay $50 per year, but bondholders will have equal rights to the coupon.



A parity bond stands in contrast to a junior lien or a senior lien bond. A junior lien bond, also called a subordinate bond, has a subordinate claim to pledged revenue as compared to a senior lien bond, which is also called a first lien bond. Unsecured debts are subordinate bonds compared to secured debts.




What Does Pari-Passu Mean in Finance?
Pari-passu is a Latin phrase used in contract law that describes situations where two or more assets, securities, creditors, or obligations are equally managed without preference. The term is most commonly found in reference to elements of bankruptcies, loans, and bonds.




What Is the Difference Between Pari-Passu and Pro Rata?
While pro rata refers to proportional distribution obligations, pariipassu refers more to the seniority of those obligations.




What Does Pari-Passu Refer to in Commercial Real Estate?
In commercial real estate, pari-passu generally refers to distribution models that reference the pro-rata distribution of profits based on each investor's percentage of the initial investment. 


   The Bottom Line  

Pari-Passu means "equal footing," and in finance, it means two or more parties that are treated the same in regard to a financial claim or contract. This term can apply to many different areas of finance. This includes things like shares, loans, or bonds with equal seniority or payment rights.
What Is Parity Price?  

Parity price refers to a price level that sets two assets or securities equal in value to one another. It is a concept that is used in several markets, including fixed income, equities, commodities, and convertible bonds. For convertible bonds, the parity price concept is used to determine when it is financially beneficial to convert a bond into shares of common stock.



If two assets are trading at parity, it can be inferred they are at the same price or value.





Key Takeaways

Parity price describes a price level in two or more assets that represent equal or equivalent value.Depending on the type of asset that it is used to price, parity prices can be used in a variety of different contexts.Parity is the price at which it becomes profitable for investors to convert their convertible bonds into shares of common stock. Parity can also be used to compare the value of two currencies.


   Understanding Parity Price  

Investors often have to make decisions about the relative value of two different investments. Parity is a term used to describe when two things are equivalent to one another. Thus, it can be used to refer to two securities having equal value, such as a convertible bond and the value of a stock (if the bondholder chooses to convert a convertible bond into common stock).



In addition to using parity price for a convertible security, investors can use it to make investment decisions about commodities and currencies. Parity price can help determine the value of stock options because parity is defined as the price at which an option is trading at its intrinsic value. In addition, the concept of parity is also used to compare the value of two currencies.


   Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)  

Purchasing power parity (PPP) is a method of comparing the purchasing power between countries. PPP compares the cost of a basket of goods in one country with the cost of the same goods in another country. However, purchasing power parity adjusts for the exchange rates between the two countries. In other words, purchasing power parity adjusts two similar products should be the same price in both countries after figuring for exchange rates.


   Factoring in Commodities  

For agricultural commodities, the parity price is the purchasing power of a particular commodity relative to a farmer's expenses, such as wages, loan interest, and equipment.



The Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 defines parity price as the average price received by farmers for agricultural commodities during the previous 10 years; if the parity price for a commodity is below the current market price, the government may provide price support through direct purchases.


   Parity in the Forex Markets  

Parity is also found in foreign exchange (forex) markets, the exchange rate relationship between two currencies is exactly one-to-one.



Companies based in the United States that have operations in foreign countries must convert U.S. dollars into other currencies. If a U.S. firm does business in France, for example, the company can convert U.S. dollars into euros and send those euros to fund its French business operations. If the exchange rate is $1 to €1, the currencies are at parity.






On July 12, 2022, the euro reached parity with the U.S. dollar for the first time in 20 years (EUR/USD was 1.00), as the euro fell to its lowest level against the U.S. dollar since 2002.


  Interest Rate Parity  

Interest rate parity (IRP) is the fundamental equation that governs the relationship between interest rates and currency exchange rates. The basic premise of interest rate parity is that hedged returns from investing in different currencies should be the same, regardless of their interest rates. That means if we consider two countries, and interest rates go up in one of them, then the exchange rate of their currencies will also have to adjust in a commensurate manner. Forex traders use the concept of interest rate parity to identify arbitrage and other trading opportunities.



The formula for IRP is:



















F


0



=



S


0



×



(




1


+



i


c





1


+



i


b





)

















where:

















F


0



=


Forward Rate

















S


0



=


Spot Rate

















i


c



=


Interest rate in country 


c

















i


b



=


Interest rate in country 


b







\begin{aligned} &F_0 = S_0 \times \left ( \frac{ 1 + i_c }{ 1 + i_b } \right ) \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &F_0 = \text{Forward Rate} \\ &S_0 = \text{Spot Rate} \\ &i_c = \text{Interest rate in country }c \\ &i_b = \text{Interest rate in country }b \\ \end{aligned}


​F0​=S0​×(1+ib​1+ic​​)where:F0​=Forward RateS0​=Spot Rateic​=Interest rate in country cib​=Interest rate in country b​


   Parity Price: How Convertible Bonds Work  

The conversion parity price on a convertible security refers to the break-even price on a convertible security



A convertible bond offers bond investors the opportunity to convert said bond into a fixed number of shares of common stock at a specific price per share. Investors purchase convertible bonds because the owner can earn interest on a fixed-income investment (and they have the option of converting into the company’s equity). Parity price is the market price of the convertible security divided by the conversion ratio (the number of common stock shares received upon conversion).



Conversion Parity Price = Value of Convertible Security / Conversion Ratio


  Example  

Assume, for example, that a $1,000 IBM convertible bond has a market price of $1,200, and the bond is convertible into 20 shares of IBM common stock. The parity price is:



$1,200 / 20 shares = $60 per share



If the market price of IBM common stock is above $60 per share, the investor can profit by converting it into common stock.


   Parity in Options Trading  

When an investor purchases a stock option, the owner has the right to buy a fixed number of stock shares at a stated price (and the right to buy the shares expires on a fixed date). One $50 Microsoft call option, for example, means that the owner can buy 100 shares of Microsoft common stock at $50 per share before the option expires. If the market price of Microsoft is $60 per share, the intrinsic value of the option is ($60 - $50), or $10 per share. If the price of the stock option is also $10, the option trade is at parity.



Parity is also used in options in the context of put-call parity. This describes the relationship that exists between put and call options that have the same underlying asset, expiration date, and strike prices, whereby the price of a call option implies a certain fair price for the corresponding put option with the same strike price and expiration and vice versa.



You can determine the put-call party by using the formula: C + PV(x) = P + S



Where:



C is the call pricePV(x) is the present value of the strike price, xP is the put priceS is the current market price of the underlying security




What Is Risk Parity?
Risk parity is an asset management process that evaluates risk based on asset classes rather than the allocation of capital. Tradition asset allocation strategy divides assets between stocks, bonds, and cash. The goal is to provide diversification and reduce risk by using these types of investments. Risk parity, on the other hand, allocates dollars based on four components: equities, credit, interest rates, and commodities.




What Is Covered vs. Uncovered Interest Rate Parity?
Covered interest rate parity exists when a no-arbitrage condition can be achieved through the use of forward contracts as a hedge against foreign exchange risk. Uncovered interest rate parity is the theoretical equivalence between nations' interest rates and exchange rates without considering forwards.




What Is Percent of Parity?
Percent of parity is a way of describing how much difference there is between two prices or rates and achieving parity. Here, parity is equal to 100%, so if the percent of parity between X and Y is 90%, it is 10 percentage points away from parity.


   The Bottom Line  

Parity means equality. The word comes from the Latin paritas, which means equal, and is sometimes shortened to "par." In finance, parity price can refer to several things depending on the context, however, in all cases it refers to some sort of equality or equivalence. For instance, parity in forex markets means that two currencies exchange for exactly 1:1. In options theory, put-call parity describes the equivalence between calls and puts of the same strike. For convertible bonds, the parity price is the equivalent amount paid for a share of common stock if the option on a convertible security is exercised. In general, parity is an important concept because it also allows us to understand deviations and differences from some expected parity condition, providing arbitrage and trading opportunities.
What Is Parity Price?  

Parity price refers to a price level that sets two assets or securities equal in value to one another. It is a concept that is used in several markets, including fixed income, equities, commodities, and convertible bonds. For convertible bonds, the parity price concept is used to determine when it is financially beneficial to convert a bond into shares of common stock.



If two assets are trading at parity, it can be inferred they are at the same price or value.





Key Takeaways

Parity price describes a price level in two or more assets that represent equal or equivalent value.Depending on the type of asset that it is used to price, parity prices can be used in a variety of different contexts.Parity is the price at which it becomes profitable for investors to convert their convertible bonds into shares of common stock. Parity can also be used to compare the value of two currencies.


   Understanding Parity Price  

Investors often have to make decisions about the relative value of two different investments. Parity is a term used to describe when two things are equivalent to one another. Thus, it can be used to refer to two securities having equal value, such as a convertible bond and the value of a stock (if the bondholder chooses to convert a convertible bond into common stock).



In addition to using parity price for a convertible security, investors can use it to make investment decisions about commodities and currencies. Parity price can help determine the value of stock options because parity is defined as the price at which an option is trading at its intrinsic value. In addition, the concept of parity is also used to compare the value of two currencies.


   Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)  

Purchasing power parity (PPP) is a method of comparing the purchasing power between countries. PPP compares the cost of a basket of goods in one country with the cost of the same goods in another country. However, purchasing power parity adjusts for the exchange rates between the two countries. In other words, purchasing power parity adjusts two similar products should be the same price in both countries after figuring for exchange rates.


   Factoring in Commodities  

For agricultural commodities, the parity price is the purchasing power of a particular commodity relative to a farmer's expenses, such as wages, loan interest, and equipment.



The Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 defines parity price as the average price received by farmers for agricultural commodities during the previous 10 years; if the parity price for a commodity is below the current market price, the government may provide price support through direct purchases.


   Parity in the Forex Markets  

Parity is also found in foreign exchange (forex) markets, the exchange rate relationship between two currencies is exactly one-to-one.



Companies based in the United States that have operations in foreign countries must convert U.S. dollars into other currencies. If a U.S. firm does business in France, for example, the company can convert U.S. dollars into euros and send those euros to fund its French business operations. If the exchange rate is $1 to €1, the currencies are at parity.






On July 12, 2022, the euro reached parity with the U.S. dollar for the first time in 20 years (EUR/USD was 1.00), as the euro fell to its lowest level against the U.S. dollar since 2002.


  Interest Rate Parity  

Interest rate parity (IRP) is the fundamental equation that governs the relationship between interest rates and currency exchange rates. The basic premise of interest rate parity is that hedged returns from investing in different currencies should be the same, regardless of their interest rates. That means if we consider two countries, and interest rates go up in one of them, then the exchange rate of their currencies will also have to adjust in a commensurate manner. Forex traders use the concept of interest rate parity to identify arbitrage and other trading opportunities.



The formula for IRP is:



















F


0



=



S


0



×



(




1


+



i


c





1


+



i


b





)

















where:

















F


0



=


Forward Rate

















S


0



=


Spot Rate

















i


c



=


Interest rate in country 


c

















i


b



=


Interest rate in country 


b







\begin{aligned} &F_0 = S_0 \times \left ( \frac{ 1 + i_c }{ 1 + i_b } \right ) \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &F_0 = \text{Forward Rate} \\ &S_0 = \text{Spot Rate} \\ &i_c = \text{Interest rate in country }c \\ &i_b = \text{Interest rate in country }b \\ \end{aligned}


​F0​=S0​×(1+ib​1+ic​​)where:F0​=Forward RateS0​=Spot Rateic​=Interest rate in country cib​=Interest rate in country b​


   Parity Price: How Convertible Bonds Work  

The conversion parity price on a convertible security refers to the break-even price on a convertible security



A convertible bond offers bond investors the opportunity to convert said bond into a fixed number of shares of common stock at a specific price per share. Investors purchase convertible bonds because the owner can earn interest on a fixed-income investment (and they have the option of converting into the company’s equity). Parity price is the market price of the convertible security divided by the conversion ratio (the number of common stock shares received upon conversion).



Conversion Parity Price = Value of Convertible Security / Conversion Ratio


  Example  

Assume, for example, that a $1,000 IBM convertible bond has a market price of $1,200, and the bond is convertible into 20 shares of IBM common stock. The parity price is:



$1,200 / 20 shares = $60 per share



If the market price of IBM common stock is above $60 per share, the investor can profit by converting it into common stock.


   Parity in Options Trading  

When an investor purchases a stock option, the owner has the right to buy a fixed number of stock shares at a stated price (and the right to buy the shares expires on a fixed date). One $50 Microsoft call option, for example, means that the owner can buy 100 shares of Microsoft common stock at $50 per share before the option expires. If the market price of Microsoft is $60 per share, the intrinsic value of the option is ($60 - $50), or $10 per share. If the price of the stock option is also $10, the option trade is at parity.



Parity is also used in options in the context of put-call parity. This describes the relationship that exists between put and call options that have the same underlying asset, expiration date, and strike prices, whereby the price of a call option implies a certain fair price for the corresponding put option with the same strike price and expiration and vice versa.



You can determine the put-call party by using the formula: C + PV(x) = P + S



Where:



C is the call pricePV(x) is the present value of the strike price, xP is the put priceS is the current market price of the underlying security




What Is Risk Parity?
Risk parity is an asset management process that evaluates risk based on asset classes rather than the allocation of capital. Tradition asset allocation strategy divides assets between stocks, bonds, and cash. The goal is to provide diversification and reduce risk by using these types of investments. Risk parity, on the other hand, allocates dollars based on four components: equities, credit, interest rates, and commodities.




What Is Covered vs. Uncovered Interest Rate Parity?
Covered interest rate parity exists when a no-arbitrage condition can be achieved through the use of forward contracts as a hedge against foreign exchange risk. Uncovered interest rate parity is the theoretical equivalence between nations' interest rates and exchange rates without considering forwards.




What Is Percent of Parity?
Percent of parity is a way of describing how much difference there is between two prices or rates and achieving parity. Here, parity is equal to 100%, so if the percent of parity between X and Y is 90%, it is 10 percentage points away from parity.


   The Bottom Line  

Parity means equality. The word comes from the Latin paritas, which means equal, and is sometimes shortened to "par." In finance, parity price can refer to several things depending on the context, however, in all cases it refers to some sort of equality or equivalence. For instance, parity in forex markets means that two currencies exchange for exactly 1:1. In options theory, put-call parity describes the equivalence between calls and puts of the same strike. For convertible bonds, the parity price is the equivalent amount paid for a share of common stock if the option on a convertible security is exercised. In general, parity is an important concept because it also allows us to understand deviations and differences from some expected parity condition, providing arbitrage and trading opportunities.
What Is a Parsonage Allowance?  

A parsonage allowance is a sum of money awarded by the same governing board of a house of worship to its minister to offset housing expenses. For tax purposes, this allowance is exempted from the recipient's gross income. A parsonage allowance may also be called a rental allowance or housing allowance.



It is important to note that a minister doesn't necessarily mean a Christian. As defined by the IRS, a minister can be Christian, Jewish, Muslim, or any other religion.





Key Takeaways

A parsonage is a dwelling (home or apartment) provided to a minister by the governing board of a house of worship.A minister's parsonage allowance is exempt from gross income.Parsonage allowance must be used in the year it is allocated to the clergy member.The amount deducted may cover reasonable housing costs.If the house of worship has its own parsonage, part of the costs of maintenance may be deductible.


   Understanding the Parsonage Allowance  

Section 107 of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) allows the minister of a religious body to exempt some or all of a housing allowance from gross income for income tax purposes.



As compensation for ministerial services provided, a minister may receive ministerial income, a portion of which includes a rental or housing allowance. The minister can exclude from gross income the lesser of the following amounts:



The amount officially designated (in advance of payment) as a housing allowanceThe amount actually used to provide or rent a homeThe fair market rental value of the home



If the payment is greater than the actual expenditure, the minister is responsible for reporting and paying taxes on the correct amount of income. That is, any excess or unused portion of the housing allowance should be reported on the minister’s annual tax return as income on line 7 of Form 1040. In addition, the payments officially designated as parsonage allowance must be used in the year received.


   Covered Expenses  

Parsonage allowances only apply to a minister’s primary residence and do not include commercial property or vacation homes. Housing expenses that are eligible to be excluded from income include:



Mortgage payments (principal and interest)
Rent payments
Property insurance
Property taxes
Payments for utilities and service delivery
Homeowners’ association dues
Remodeling expenses



Ministers living in parsonages provided by the church may have part of their compensation designated as a tax-free parsonage or housing allowance to cover the cost of furniture purchase and repair, as well as other expenses related to maintenance that are not reimbursed by the church employer. If a home equity loan is used to pay for expenses related to the parsonage, it can be included as part of the minister’s parsonage allowance.



However, suppose the home equity loan is used to cover post-secondary tuition expenses or other costs not eligible as a parsonage expense. In that case, the loan cannot be included as a parsonage allowance.



In addition to home equity loans used to pay off non-housing expenses, the cost of food, clothing, domestic help, and cleaning services are not part of a minister’s parsonage allowance. A minister who has a parsonage allowance and itemizes deductions may also deduct mortgage interest and property taxes from income taxes. The parsonage allowance is a tax exemption from income, while mortgage interest and property taxes are tax deductions from income.


   Self-Employed Minister  

Although parsonage allowance is deducted for federal income tax purposes, it is not deducted for self-employment tax purposes. Parsonage allowance and/or the fair market rental value of a parsonage provided to a pastor must be included as self-employment earnings subject to the self-employment tax.






Retired ministers may be eligible for the parsonage allowance.


   Eligible Clergy  

Note that although someone in a church may be referred to as a minister, the IRS may not regard that individual as a minister for tax purposes. While ordained ministers are more likely to be eligible for a parsonage allowance exemption, commissioned and licensed ministers are less likely to be treated as ministers by the IRS.



Also, secular employers cannot give an employee working in a non-ministerial role a tax-free housing allowance, even if the employee is a minister in the church.



Furthermore, the IRS does not differentiate an active church minister from a retired one. Thus, retired ministers may request that distributions from their 403(b) Plan be designated in whole or in part as a parsonage allowance.


   Example of a Parsonage Allowance  

For example, assume an ordained minister receives an annual income of $50,000 from a church, providing a parsonage. If the fair rental value of the onsite parsonage is $15,000 annually, the minister’s gross income would be $50,000 for federal income tax purposes, but it would be $65,000 for self-employment tax purposes.



A parsonage can be a rental, or it can be a home with a mortgage, and the church provides a parsonage allowance. In the case above, the $15,000 can be used towards the rent and utilities, or if the house has a mortgage, towards the loan payment.


   Parsonage Allowance FAQs  
  What is a 403(b)(9) Plan?  

Like other retirement plans, a 403(b)(9) plan is a defined contribution retirement plan used by evangelical churches or church organizations. This plan is not subject to ERISA requirements. The church, as the employer, may contribute to the plans, and this type of plan offers distribution methods for retired ministers, too.


  Can You Take a Housing Allowance Distribution if You’ve Rolled Over Into an IRA or 401(k)?  

No, you cannot take a housing allowance distribution if you roll over your 403(b)(9) into a 401(k) or an IRA. It is recommended that retired clergy members do not move their 403(b) funds to take tax-free distributions. If you roll over your funds out of your 403(b), you will not be able to claim a housing allowance.


  Is a Parsonage Allowance an Exclusion or a Deduction?  

A parsonage allowance is an exclusion that can be taken from gross income for income but not self-employment tax purposes, according to the IRS website. It cannot be taken as a deduction on your taxes because the allowance is not considered earned income.



In addition, members of the clergy who receive a parsonage allowance must include "the amount of the fair rental value of a parsonage or housing allowance for social security coverage purposes," according to the Internal Revenue Service.
What is a Participating Policy?  

A participating policy is an insurance contract that pays dividends to the policyholder. Dividends are generated from the profits of the insurance company that sold the policy and are typically paid out on an annual basis over the life of the policy.



Most policies also include a final, or terminal, payment when the contract matures. An insurance dividend is not guaranteed and depends on the annual performance of the insurance company. A participating policy is also referred to as a "with-profits policy."





Key Takeaways

A participating policy pays dividends to the policyholder. It is essentially a form of risk sharing, in which the insurance company shifts a portion of risk to policyholders.Policyholders can either receive their premiums in cash through the mail or keep them as a deposit with the insurer to earn interest or use the payments to lower their premiums.Non-participating policies, such as term life, don't pay dividends but they may also offer lower premiums for that reason.


   Understanding Participating Policies  

Participating policies are typically life insurance contracts, such as a whole life participating policy. The dividend received by the policyholder can be taken in different ways: It can be used to pay the insurance premium; it can be left with the policy to generate interest like a regular savings account; or the policyholder can take a cash payment like you'd get from a dividend stock.


   Participating Policies vs. Non-Participating Policies  

Insurance companies' premiums are based on a number of things, including expenses. At first, non-participating policy premiums are usually lower than those for participating policies because of the dividend expense: Participating policies charge more with the intent of returning the excess. This has implications for the policy's tax treatment. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has classified the payments made by the insurance company as a return on excess premium.



For example, an insurance company will base premiums on higher operating costs and lower rates of return than are actually expected. By operating from conservative projections, the insurance company can better protect against risk. In the end, this is better for the individual policyholder because it helps offset their insurance company's insolvency risk, resulting in lower long-term premiums. 





Note

Participating policies are essentially a form of risk sharing, in which the insurance company shifts a portion of risk to policyholders.



Though the interest rates, mortality rates, and expenses that dividend formulas are based on change year to year, an insurance company won't vary dividends that often. Instead, it will alter dividend formulas periodically based on experience and anticipated future factors. These approaches apply to whole life insurance. Universal life insurance policy dividend rates can adjust much more frequently, even monthly.



While more expensive at first, participating policies can end up costing less than non-participating policies over the long term. With cash value policies, the dividend will typically increase as the policy’s cash value increases. The owner of the participating policy would then have more cash value available to cover their ongoing premiums versus a nonparticipating policy.


   Is a Participating Policy Right for Me?  

The question of whether participating policies are better than nonparticipating policies is a complex one and depends largely on your needs. Term life insurance is generally a nonparticipating policy with low premiums. It may suit you if you're interested in providing for your beneficiaries with lower or fewer premium payments.



Permanent life insurance can be either participating or nonparticipating. A non-participating policy may charge a lower premium for the same amount of coverage at first. However, with this type of policy, the profits aren't shared and no dividends are paid to the policyholders.



A participating policy likely will charge a higher premium at first. In exchange, it enables you as a policyholder to share the profits of the insurance company through regular dividends. This extra income could be used to reduce the long-term policy cost or build your savings, depending on your preference.



The type of insurance company you work with also matters. Mutual life insurance companies can only issue participating policies in most states. These policies allow a portion of the company's premiums to be paid out in the form of policy dividends as refunds, which makes those funds nontaxable as income.Alternatively, stock life insurance companies generally issue nonparticipating policies. They pay their profit dividends to their stock shareholders instead.




Why Choose Participating Over Non-Participating Life Insurance?
A participating policy, also called a "with-profit" policy, enables a policyholder to share in the insurance company's profits in the form of a dividend. The dividend can be used to pay the insurance premium; it can be left with the policy to generate interest like in a regular savings account; or the policyholder can take a cash payment like you can from a dividend stock. In non-participating policies the profits aren't shared and no dividends are paid to the policyholders.




Why Might a Participating Policy Not Be for You?
Participating policies may cost more at first. Non-participating policy premiums are usually lower than those for participating policies because of the dividend expense: The insurer charges more with the intent of returning the excess. That's why life insurance dividends are tax free. The IRS classifies payments made by the insurance company as a return on excess premium, not as a dividend payout.




Do Mutual Life Insurance Companies Issue Participating Policies?
Yes, mutual life insurers are limited to offering only participating policies by most U.S. states. Their dividends are paid to policyholders regularly as refunds.


   The Bottom Line  

A participating policy is an insurance contract that pays dividends to the policyholder. Dividends come from the issuing insurance company's profits, and are typically paid out on an annual basis over the life of the policy. Several factors should be considered to determine whether a participating life policy is right for you, but in many cases, they may be more expensive at first than non-participating policies. On the other hand, receiving dividends helps many holders of participating policies pay their premiums or build savings in the policy for later use.
What Is Participating Preferred Stock?  

Participating preferred stock is a type of preferred stock that gives the holder the right to receive dividends equal to the customarily specified rate that preferred dividends are paid to preferred shareholders, as well as an additional dividend based on some predetermined condition. Participating preferred stock can also have liquidation preferences upon a liquidation event.





Key Takeaways

Participating preferred stock is akin to preferred shares that pay both preferred dividends plus an additional dividend to their shareholders.The additional dividend ensures that these shareholders receive an equivalent dividend as common shareholders.Participating preferred stock is not common but can be issued in response to a hostile takeover bid as part of a poison pill strategy.


   Understanding Participating Preferred Stock  

Participating preferred stock—like other forms of preferred stock—takes precedence in a firm's capital structure over common stock but ranks below debt in liquidation events. The additional dividend paid to preferred shareholders is commonly structured to be paid only if the amount of dividends that common shareholders receive exceeds a specified per-share amount.



Furthermore, in the event of liquidation, participating preferred shareholders can also have the right to receive the stock's purchasing price back as well as a pro-rata share of any remaining proceeds that the common shareholders receive.



When there is a liquidation event, whether an investor's preferred stock is participating or nonparticipating will determine if that investor receives additional consideration over the liquidation value of the preferred stock and any dividends owed to the investor. If an investor's preferred stock is participating, that investor is entitled to any value leftover post-liquidation as if that stock had been common stock. Nonparticipating preferred shareholders, on the other hand, receive their liquidation value and any dividends in arrears if applicable, but they are not entitled to any other consideration.



Participating preferred stock is rarely issued, but one way in which it is used is as a poison pill. In this case, current shareholders are issued stock that gives them the right to new common shares at a bargain price in the event of an unwanted takeover bid.


   Example of Participating Preferred Stock  

Suppose Company A issues participating preferred shares with a dividend rate of $1 per share. The preferred shares also carry a clause on extra dividends for participating preferred stock, which is triggered whenever the dividend for common shares exceeds that of the preferred shares. If during its current quarter, Company A announces that it will release a dividend of $1.05 per share for its common shares, the participating preferred shareholders will receive a total dividend of $1.05 per share ($1.00 + 0.05) as well.



Now consider a liquidation event. Company A has $10 million of preferred participating stock outstanding, representing 20% of the company's capital structure with the other 80%, or $40 million, made up of common stock. Company A liquidates, and the proceeds are $60 million. The participating preferred shareholders would receive $10 million but also would be entitled to 20% of the remaining proceeds. That amount would be $10 million, calculated as 20% x ($60 million - $10 million). Nonparticipating preferred shareholders would not receive additional consideration.



Correction—Nov. 4, 2022: A previous version of this article misstated the calculation in an example for the additional amount to be received by participating preferred shareholders from a liquidation.
What Is the Labor Force Participation Rate?  

The labor force participation rate is an estimate of an economy’s active workforce. The formula is the number of people ages 16 and older who are employed or actively seeking employment, divided by the total non-institutionalized, civilian working-age population.



In the 12 months ending Aug. 2023, the U.S. labor force participation rate ranged between a low of 62.2% and a high of 62.8%, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), which publishes the figures monthly. As of Aug. 2023, it is 62.8%.



From 2013 on, the monthly figures held steady in the vicinity of 63%, after a sharp decline in the wake of the Great Recession; however, in early 2020, the labor force participation rate fell dramatically, dropping from 63.3% to 61.5% in the first half of the year, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Its low point was reached in April 2020, when the rate sank to 60.1%.





Key Takeaways

The labor force participation rate indicates the percentage of all people of working age who are employed or are actively seeking work.In conjunction with the unemployment numbers, it can offer some perspective into the state of the economy.Starting in 2013, the U.S. labor force participation rate held steady at around 63% until the COVID-19 pandemic struck. It was 62.8% as of Aug. 2023.The rate varies over time based on social, demographic, and economic trends.Global labor force participation has shown a steady decline since 1990.


   Understanding the Labor Force Participation Rate  

The labor force participation rate is an important metric to use when analyzing employment and unemployment data because it measures the number of people who are actively job-hunting as well as those who are currently employed. It omits institutionalized people (in prisons, nursing homes, or mental health facilities) and members of the military.



It includes all other people aged 16 or older and compares the proportion of those who are working or seeking work outside the home to those who are neither working nor seeking work outside the home.



Because it accounts for people who have given up looking for work, this may make the labor force participation rate a somewhat more reliable figure than the unemployment rate. The unemployment numbers do not take into account those who have given up looking for work.



Some economists argue that the labor force participation rate and unemployment data should be considered together in an effort to better understand an economy’s real employment status.






   Labor Force Participation Rate Formula  

The formula for labor force participation is:




















(


Number Employed


+


Number Seeking Work


)


×


100



Civilian Non-Institutional Population








\begin{aligned}&\frac{ ( \text{Number Employed} + \text{Number Seeking Work} ) \times 100 }{ \text{Civilian Non-Institutional Population} } \\\end{aligned}


​Civilian Non-Institutional Population(Number Employed+Number Seeking Work)×100​​



This applies to all members of the population at age 16 or older.






(


Number Employed


+


Number Seeking Work


)


×


100



Civilian Non-Institutional Population




\frac{ ( \text{Number Employed} + \text{Number Seeking Work} ) \times 100 }{ \text{Civilian Non-Institutional Population} }


Civilian Non-Institutional Population(Number Employed+Number Seeking Work)×100​


   Factors That Affect Participation Rate  

Labor force participation does not exist in a vacuum. Instead, it is impacted by a variety of social, economic, and demographic factors. As these factors change, labor force participation might go up or down. These changes can happen quickly or slowly. They might have a short-term impact on labor force participation, or they might create long-term change.


  Economic Factors  

Short- and long-term economic trends can influence the labor force participation rate. In the long run, industrialization and the accumulation of wealth can have an impact.



Industrialization tends to increase participation by creating employment opportunities. High levels of accumulated wealth can reduce participation because wealthier people simply have less need to work for a living.



In the short term, business cycles and unemployment rates influence the participation rate. During an economic recession, the labor force participation rate tends to fall because many laid-off workers become discouraged and give up looking for jobs. Economic policies such as heavy labor market regulation and generous social benefit programs may also tend to decrease labor force participation.


  Social Factors  

Social expectations and changes to those expectations can impact who is available to participate in the workforce. As different groups are expected to work or not, the labor force participation rate will go up or down.



For example, if married men are considered responsible for supporting their families, while married women stay home, then women will stop working once married or after having children, which lowers the labor force participation rate. If the expectation is that both parents should be able to work, however, then some parents of either gender will leave the workforce, while others will stay.



Expectations for education can also impact the labor force participation rate. If the majority of young people learn a trade or a family business as they are growing up, then are expected to work immediately after finishing a high school education, then adults will start entering the workforce between ages 17 and 19.



In countries or demographic groups where attending college is more common, though, more young adults will continue their education after high school. Labor force participation will go down because they won't join the workforce until their early or mid-twenties.


  Demographic Factors  

Changes in the working-age population from generation to generation influence labor force participation as well. As large age cohorts enter retirement age, the labor force participation rate can fall.



For example, the retirement of a steady stream of baby boomers has reduced labor force participation. Baby boomers are one of the largest demographic blocks in the population. Since generations after the baby boomers are smaller, they will not be replaced by as many active, younger workers when they retire.


   Trends in Participation Rate  

The labor force participation rate has changed based on economic, social, and demographic trends over the long term. It rose steadily through the second half of the 20th century, peaking at 67.3% in April 2000. As the Great Recession hit in 2008, the participation rate entered several years of steep decline, stabilizing at around 63% by 2013.



The trend in the women’s labor force participation rate largely parallels the long-term trends for the total population. The women’s labor force participation rate nearly doubled from 32% to 60% in the 50 years from 1948 to 1998. This rate dropped to 54.6% in April 2020 from 57.9% in Feb. 2020. As of Aug. 2023, it sits at 57.7%.






The U.S. labor force participation rate of 62.8% in Aug. 2023 included 57.7% participation for women and 68.2% participation for men.


   Why the Participation Rate Has Declined  

According to the Federal Reserve, the share of prime-working-age people (25 to 54 years old) in the labor force peaked at 72% in 1995 and has declined since then. This roughly corresponds to some of the declining trends in labor force participation in the 21st century. There are a number of reasons that the labor force participation rate has declined.



The Great Recession: During the Great Recession from 2007 to 2009, unemployment rose from 5% to 10%. In the decade that followed, the labor market recovered; however, many workers who had left the workforce never returned to full-time work, even after jobs were available. Though overall unemployment returned to pre-recession levels, rates of long-term unemployment increased as workers who had lost jobs stayed out of the labor force for longer periods of time.
COVID-19: There was another sharp drop in labor participation in early 2020, as the COVID-19 pandemic shut down the U.S. economy. Many vulnerable workers were unable or unwilling to remain in face-to-face jobs, while others left their jobs to take care of family members at home. Due to caregiving expectations, women left the workforce at higher rates than men did.
Retirement: Baby boomers are the largest segment of the population. As they reach retirement age and leave the labor force, the participation rate goes down, since there aren't enough younger workers to replace them. From 2007 to 2014, up to half the decline in labor force participation was a result of the workforce aging, according to the Council of Economic Advisors.
College: An increase in college attendance is another factor that reduces labor force participation. College enrollment increased steadily from 1999 to 2011, from 14.85% to 21.01%. It then started to decrease up until 2021, when enrollment was 18.66%. Since the pandemic, enrollment has started to increase again, estimated to reach 19.57% in 2025 and 20.17% in 2030.






The national unemployment rate in the United States in Aug. 2023 was 3.8%.


   Global Labor Force Participation  

Global labor force participation has shown a steady decline since 1990. According to the World Bank, the global labor force participation rate stood at 60% at the end of 2022, down from 62% in 2010 and 65% in 1990.



The following table highlights the countries with the highest and lowest labor force participation rates as of 2022 (most recent data):











Countries With the Highest and Lowest Labor Force Participation Rates (2022)




Country (Highest)
Rate
Country (Lowest) 
Rate 


Qatar 
88% 
Djibouti
31% 


Madagascar 
86% 
Somalia
34% 


Solomon Islands 
84% 
Yemen
38% 


Tanzania 
83% 
Jordan
40%


United Arab Emirates
82%
Nepal
40%


Ethiopia
81%
Iraq
40%


Burundi
80%
Algeria
41%


Mozambique 
78%
Mauritania
41%


Eritrea
78%
Puerto Rico
41%


Angola
77%
Tajikistan
41%



Source: The World Bank




What Does the Labor Force Participation Rate Measure?
The labor force participation rate measures a country’s active workforce of people 16 and older. It takes into account people who have stopped looking for work but still want to work, unlike the unemployment rate.




What Affects the Labor Force Participation Rate?
Three major factors influence the rate: economic, demographic, and social. For instance, the recent retirement of baby boomers in great numbers has pushed the rate down, while the introduction of large numbers of women into the workforce in the second half of the 20th century increased the rate. In April 2020, after the COVID-19 pandemic struck the U.S., the rate went down by more than 3% compared to the beginning of that year.




How Does the U.S. Labor Force Participation Rate Compare With Those of Other Countries?
According to the World Bank's most recent data from 2022, the U.S. falls in the middle of the pack at 62%, a few points ahead of the world rate of 60%. The highest rate was held by Qatar, at 88%, and the lowest by Djibouti at 31%.




How Is the Labor Force Participation Rate Measured?
The labor force participation rate is measured by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, based on a monthly household survey by the U.S. Census Bureau. This survey asks respondents about their age and whether they are employed or looking for work. On that basis, the government can estimate the labor force participation rate.




Why Is the Labor Force Participation Rate Declining?
The participation rate has steadily declined since the late 1990s, largely due to the retirement of baby boomers and other demographic changes. In 2020, there was a sharp drop in labor participation due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which shuttered many businesses and forced many vulnerable people to leave the workforce.


   The Bottom Line  

The labor force participation rate measures the percentage of adults who are either employed or actively looking for a job. It does not include those in the military, prisons, or otherwise outside of the ordinary labor market. It also accounts for the people who are not seeking work, making it a more reliable statistic than the regular unemployment rate.
What Are Participatory Notes?  

Participatory notes also referred to as P-notes, or PNs, are financial instruments required by investors or hedge funds to invest in Indian securities without having to register with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI). P-notes are among the group of investments considered to be Offshore Derivative Investments (ODIs).



Any dividends or capital gains collected from the securities go back to the investors. Indian regulators are generally not in support of participatory notes because they fear that hedge funds acting through participatory notes will cause economic volatility in India's exchanges.





Key Takeaways

Brokers and foreign institutional investors (FIIs) must register with the Securities and Exchange Board of India.Participatory notes allow non-registered investors to invest in the Indian market.Participatory notes, referred to as P-notes or PNs, are derivative instruments of underlying Indian assets.Participatory notes are popular investments due to the investor remaining anonymous.


   Understanding Participatory Notes  

Participatory notes are offshore derivative instruments with Indian shares as the underlying assets. Because of the short-term nature of investing, regulators have fewer guidelines for foreign institutional investors. To invest in the Indian stock markets and to avoid the cumbersome regulatory approval process, these investors trade participatory notes.



Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) issue the financial instruments to investors in other countries who want to invest in Indian securities. Brokers and foreign institutional investors registered with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) issue the participatory notes and invest on behalf of the foreign investors. Each month, brokers must report their participatory note issuance status to the regulatory board.



This system lets unregistered overseas investors, such as high-net-worth individuals, hedge funds, and other investors buy Indian shares without the need to register with the Indian regulatory body. They provide access to quick money in the Indian capital markets. Investors save time, money, and scrutiny associated with direct registration. These investments are also beneficial to India as they allow for foreign investment into the country.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Participatory Notes  

Participatory notes are easily traded overseas through endorsement and delivery. They are popular because investors anonymously take positions in Indian markets, and hedge funds may anonymously carry out their operations. Some entities route their investments through participatory notes to take advantage of tax laws that are available in certain countries.



However, because of the anonymity, Indian regulators face difficulty determining a participatory note's original owner and end owner. Therefore, substantial amounts of unaccounted-for money enter the country through participatory notes. This flow of untracked funds has raised some red flags.


   Participatory Notes Regulatory Issues  

SEBI has no jurisdiction over participatory note trading. Although foreign institutional investors must register with the Indian regulatory board, the participatory notes trading among foreign institutional investors are not recorded. Officials fear this practice may lead to the P-notes being used for money laundering or other illegal activity.



This inability to track money is also why the Special Investigation Team (SIT) would like stricter compliance measures for the trading of participatory notes. The SIT is a specialized team of officers in Indian law enforcement which consists of personnel who have been trained to investigate serious crimes.



However, when the government proposed trade restrictions on the notes in the past, the Indian market became extremely volatile. For example, in October 2007, the government announced it was considering curbing participatory note trading. The announcement caused the Sensex index to plummet 1,744 points during the day's session, which was more than an 8% drop.



This market disturbance was in response to investor and government worries that the curbing of the P-notes would be a direct hit on the Indian economy. That is because foreign institutional investors help fuel the growth of the Indian economy, industries, and capital markets, and increasing regulation would make it more difficult for foreign money to enter the market. The government ultimately decided not to regulate participatory notes.


   Participatory Notes Process  

P-notes can be used to purchase any Indian security an investor wants through a series of steps.



An investor deposits funds with the U.S. or European operations of a registered foreign institutional investor (FII), such as HSBC or Deutsche Bank. The investors then inform the bank of the Indian security or securities they wish to purchase



Funds transfer from the investor to the FII account, and the FII issues the participatory notes to the client and buys the underlying stock or stocks in the correct quantities from the Indian marketplace.



The investor is eligible to receive dividends, capital gains, and any other payouts due to stockholders holding the shares of the Indian company. The FII reports all of its issuances each month to the Indian regulators, but as per law, it does not disclose the identity of the actual investor.




Who Introduced Participatory Notes in India?
Participatory notes were introduced in India in 2000 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) to allow foreign investors (financial institutions and high-net-worth individuals) access to the Indian financial markets without having to register as a foreign institutional investor (FII).




How Do You Invest in P-Notes?
P-notes are issued by local Indian investors, known as foreign institutional investors (FIIs), to international investors seeking access to Indian markets. The P-notes are sold directly to investors and are not traded on an exchange. International investors do have to go through a due diligence process when they open an account with a registered foreign institutional investor (FII).




Are Participatory Notes Legal in India?
Yes, participatory notes are legal in India yet the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has no direct jurisdiction over them but has attempted to control the market by imposing various stipulations around foreign institutional investors (FII) in India selling these notes.
What Is a Partnership?  

A partnership is a formal arrangement by two or more parties to manage and operate a business and share its profits.



There are several types of partnership arrangements. In particular, in a partnership business, all partners share liabilities and profits equally, while in others, partners may have limited liability. There also is the so-called "silent partner," in which one party is not involved in the day-to-day operations of the business.





Key Takeaways

A partnership is an arrangement between two or more people to oversee business operations and share its profits and liabilities.In a general partnership company, all members share both profits and liabilities.Professionals like doctors and lawyers often form a limited liability partnership.There may be tax benefits to a partnership compared to a corporation.












Investopedia / Matthew Collins


   Types of Partnerships  

In a broad sense, a partnership can be any endeavor undertaken jointly by multiple parties. The parties may be governments, nonprofits enterprises, businesses, or private individuals. The goals of a partnership also vary widely.



Within the narrow sense of a for-profit venture undertaken by two or more individuals, there are three main categories of partnership: general partnership, limited partnership, and limited liability partnership.


  General Partnership  

In a general partnership, all parties share legal and financial liability equally. The individuals are personally responsible for the debts the partnership takes on. Profits are also shared equally. The specifics of profit sharing will almost certainly be laid out in writing in a partnership agreement.






When drafting a partnership agreement, an expulsion clause should be included, detailing what events are grounds for expelling a partner.


  Limited Liability Partnership  

Limited liability partnerships (LLPs) are a common structure for professionals, such as accountants, lawyers, and architects. This arrangement limits partners' personal liability so that, for example, if one partner is sued for malpractice, the assets of other partners are not at risk.



Some law and accounting firms make a further distinction between equity partners and salaried partners. The latter is more senior than associates but does not have an ownership stake. They are generally paid bonuses based on the firm's profits.


  Limited Partnership  

Limited partnerships are a hybrid of general partnerships and limited liability partnerships. At least one partner must be a general partner, with full personal liability for the partnership's debts. At least one other is a silent partner whose liability is limited to the amount invested. This silent partner generally does not participate in the management or day-to-day operation of the partnership.



Finally, the awkwardly-named limited liability limited partnership is a new and relatively uncommon variety. This is a limited partnership that provides a greater shield from liability for its general partners.


   Taxes and Partnerships  

There is no federal statute defining partnerships, but nevertheless, the Internal Revenue Code (Chapter 1, Subchapter K) includes detailed rules on their federal tax treatment.



Partnerships do not pay income tax. The tax responsibility passes through to the partners, who are not considered employees for tax purposes.



Individuals in partnerships may receive more favorable tax treatment than if they founded a corporation. That is, corporate profits are taxed, as are the dividends paid to owners or shareholders. Partnerships' profits, on the other hand, are not double-taxed in this way.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Partnerships  

A successful partnership can help a business thrive by allowing the partners to pool their labor and resources. Most sole proprietors do not have the time or resources to run a successful business alone, and the startup stage can be the most time-consuming.



Creating a partnership allows the partners to benefit from one another's labor, time, and expertise. Moreover, a shrewd partner can also provide additional perspectives and insights that can help the business grow.



But there is also an additional risk in joining a partnership. In addition to sharing profits, the partners may also assume responsibility for any losses or debts from the other partners. There is also a higher chance of conflict or mismanagement. When the time comes to exit, it may be harder to reach an agreement about selling the business.




Pros and Cons of Partnership

Pros

Partners can pool their labor, capital and expertise.
Partners can share tasks, allowing greater work-life balance.
More partners can bring their experience and new perspectives to the firm.



Cons

Partners may bring additional debts or liabilities.
There is a greater chance of disagreement or mismanagement.
It may become harder to sell the business.





   Partnerships by Country  

The basic varieties of partnerships can be found throughout common law jurisdictions, such as the United States, the U.K., and the Commonwealth nations. There are, however, differences in the laws governing them in each jurisdiction.



The U.S. has no federal statute that defines the various forms of partnership. However, every state except Louisiana has adopted one form or another of the Uniform Partnership Act; so, the laws are similar from state to state. The standard version of the act defines the partnership as a separate legal entity from its partners, which is a departure from the previous legal treatment of partnerships.



Other common law jurisdictions, including England, do not consider partnerships to be independent legal entities.




How Does a Partnership Differ From Other Forms of Business Organization?
A partnership is a way of structuring a business that involves two or more individuals (the partners). It involves a contractual agreement (the partnership agreement) between all of the partners that set the terms and conditions of their business relationship, including the distribution of ownership, responsibilities, and profits and losses. Partnerships outline and clearly define a business relationship and responsibility.Unlike LLCs or corporations, however, partners are personally held liable for any business debts of the partnership, which means that creditors or other claimants can go after the partners' personal assets.  Because of this, individuals who wish to form a partnership should be extremely selective when choosing partners.




If Partners Don't Have Limited Liability Why Set Up a Partnership?
Partnerships have several benefits. They are often easier to set up than LLCs or corporations and do not involve a formal incorporation process through a government. This has the added benefit of not being subject to the same rules and regulations that apply to corporations and LLCs. Partnerships also tend to be more tax-friendly.




What About Limited Partnerships?
In limited partnerships (LPs), there are general partners who maintain operations of the firm and have full liability, whereas limited (silent) partners, who are often passive investors or otherwise not involved in day-to-day operations, enjoy limited liability. A limited liability partnership (LLP) is different from an LP.  In an LLP, partners are not exempt from liability for the debts of the partnership, but they may be exempt from liability for the actions of other partners. A limited liability limited partnership (LLLP) is a relatively new business form that combines aspects of LPs and LLPs.




Do Partnerships Pay Taxes?
The partnership itself does not pay business taxes. Instead, taxes are passed through to the individual partners to file on their own tax returns, often via a Schedule K.




What Types of Businesses Are Best-Suited for Partnerships?
Partnerships are often best for a group of professionals in the same line of work where each partner has an active role in running the business. These often include medical professionals, lawyers, accountants, consultants, finance & investing, and architects.


   The Bottom Line  

A partnership is a legal arrangement that allows two or more people to share responsibility for a business. Those partners share the ownership and profits, but they also share the work, responsibility, and potential losses. A successful partnership can give a new business more opportunities to succeed, but a poorly-thought out one can cause mismanagement and disagreements.
What Are Passive Activity Loss Rules?  

Passive activity loss rules are a set of tax regulations that prohibit taxpayers from using passive losses to offset earned or ordinary income.



Essentially, the regulations prevent investors from using losses incurred from income-producing activities in which they are not materially involved.



Being materially involved with earned or ordinary income-producing activities means the income is active income and may not be reduced by passive losses. Passive losses can be used only to offset passive income.





Key Takeaways

Passive activity loss rules state that passive losses can be used only to offset passive income.A passive activity is one in which the taxpayer did not materially participate during the year in question.Common passive activity losses may stem from leasing equipment, real estate rentals, or limited partnerships.


   Understanding Passive Activity Loss Rules  

The key issue with passive activity loss rules is material participation. According to IRS Topic No. 425, "material participation" is involvement in the operation of a trade or business activity on a "regular, continuous, and substantial basis."



There are seven tests that can define material participation, but the most common one is working at least 500 hours in the business in the course of a year.



If the taxpayer does not materially participate in the activity that is producing the passive losses, those losses can be matched only against passive income. If there is no passive income, no loss can be deducted.



Note that rental activities—including real estate rental activities—are considered passive activities even if there is material participation. (Real estate professionals have their own rules for determining material participation.)



Passive activity losses can only be applied in the current year in most cases. However, if they exceed passive income they can be carried forward without limitation. They cannot be carried back.



Passive activity loss rules are generally applied at the individual level, but they also extend to virtually all businesses and rental activity in various reporting entities, with the exception of C corporations. These are designed to deter the abusive use of tax shelters.



There are detailed rules about how much in passive losses is deductible. If you think these rules could apply to your tax situation, consult a tax specialist.


   Passive Losses and Passive Activity  

Passive activity is activity that a taxpayer did not materially participate in during the tax year. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) defines two types of passive activity: trade or business activities to which the taxpayer did not actively contribute, and rental activities.



Unless the taxpayer is a real estate professional, rental activities usually provide streams of income that are passive. The IRS defines material participation as involvement in the activity of the business on a regular, continuous and substantial basis.



A passive loss is thus a financial loss within an investment in any trade or business enterprise in which the investor is not a material participant. Passive losses can stem from investments in rental properties, business partnerships, or other activities in which an investor is not materially involved. In order to be considered a non-material participant, the investor cannot be continuously and substantially active or involved in the business activity.



Passive losses (and income) can come from the following activities:



Equipment leasingRental real estate (though there are some exceptions)Sole proprietorship of a farm in which the taxpayer has no material participationLimited partnerships (though there are some exceptions)Partnerships, S-Corporations, and limited liability companies in which the taxpayer has no material participation



If you are unsure whether a loss should be classified as passive or not, it is worth consulting with a professional accountant to ensure your taxes are being filed correctly.




What Is a Passive Activity?
Under U.S. tax law, a passive activity is one that produced income or losses that did not result in any material participation by the taxpayer. For example, if you own farmland but rent it out to a farmer who does all the work, you're making passive income.Passive losses cannot be used to offset earned income. They can only be used to offset other passive income.




Is Passive Income Taxable?
Yes, passive income is taxable, usually at the same rate as the taxpayer would pay on earned income.If you have passive income, you may be able to offset the taxes due on it with some deductions.




What Is Active Income vs. Passive Income?
Active income is earned through producing or helping to produce a product or service.Passive income is received without any substantial effort.Granted, there are plenty of gray areas. Most of the time, it doesn't matter for tax purposes. Active income and passive income are both taxable, usually at the same rate.The difference is important when a taxpayer has losses in passive income. In such cases, the passive activity loss rules forbid taxpayers from using passive losses to reduce active or earned income.


   The Bottom Line  

The concept of passive income has been a hot topic recently given the proliferation of side gigs that the internet spawned.



For tax purposes, there are two key things to remember about passive income:



It's taxable, just like active income, and usually at the same rateIf you lose money, you can't deduct your losses incurred in passive income from gains made through active income sources.
What Is a Passive Foreign Investment Company (PFIC)?  

A passive foreign investment company (PFIC) is a corporation, located abroad, which exhibits either one of two conditions, based on either income or assets:



At least 75% of the corporation's gross income is "passive"—that is, derived from investments or other sources not related to regular business operations.
At least 50% of the company's assets are investments, which produce income in the form of earned interest, dividends, or capital gains.





Key Takeaways

A foreign corporation is a deemed passive foreign investment company (PFIC) if 75% or more of its gross income is from non-business operational activities (the income test).Or, if it has at least 50% of its average percentage of assets held for the production of passive income (the asset test).PFICs are subject to strict and extremely complicated tax guidelines by the Internal Revenue Service.U.S. investors who own shares of a PFIC must file IRS Form 8621.Identifying holdings in PFICs closes tax loopholes that allowed some U.S. individuals to avoid taxation on that foreign income.


   Understanding a Passive Foreign Investment Company (PFIC)  

PFICs first became recognized through tax reforms passed in 1986. The changes were designed to close a tax loophole, which some U.S. taxpayers were using to shelter offshore investments from taxation. The instituted tax reforms not only sought to close this tax avoidance loophole and bring such investments under U.S. taxation but also to tax such investments at high rates, to discourage taxpayers from following this practice.



Typical examples of PFICs include foreign-based mutual funds and startups that exist within the scope of the PFIC definition. Foreign mutual funds typically are considered PFICs if they are foreign corporations that generate more than 75% of their income from passive sources, such as capital gains and dividends.



Investments designated as PFICs are subject to strict and extremely complicated tax guidelines by the Internal Revenue Service, delineated in Sections 1291 through 1298 of the U.S. income tax code. The PFIC itself, as well as shareholders, is required to maintain accurate records of all transactions related to the PFIC, such as share cost basis, any dividends received, and undistributed income that the PFIC may earn.



The guidelines concerning cost basis provide an example of the strict tax treatment applied to shares in a PFIC. With virtually any other marketable security or another asset, a person who inherits shares is allowed by the IRS to step up the cost basis for the shares to the fair market value at the time of the inheritance. However, the step up in cost basis is not typically allowed in the case of shares in a PFIC. Additionally, determining the acceptable cost basis for shares in a PFIC is often a challenging and confusing process.






U.S. investors who hold shares of foreign mutual funds, investment trusts, ETFs, or holding companies, may be subject to PFIC taxation.


   PFICs and Tax Strategies  

U.S. investors who own shares of a PFIC must file IRS Form 8621. This form is used to report actual distributions and gains, along with income and increases in QEF elections. The tax form 8621 is a lengthy, complicated form that the IRS itself estimates may take more than 40 hours to fill out. For this reason, PFIC investors are generally advised to have a tax professional handle completion of the form.



In a year where there is no income to report, they do not need to worry about specific tax penalties. However, failure to register may render a whole tax return incomplete.



There are some options for an investor in a PFIC that can reduce the tax rate on the shares. One such option is to seek to have a PFIC investment recognized as a qualified electing fund (QEF). However, doing so may cause other tax problems for shareholders.






U.S. investors who own shares of a PFIC acquired before 1997 are not subject to the tax and interest regime for their shares.﻿﻿


   PFICs and the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act  

PFIC rules were modified by the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA). The changes involved an exception relating to the insurance industry. For tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, the PFIC insurance exception provides that a foreign corporation’s income attributable to an insurance business will not be considered passive income—unless the applicable insurance liabilities constitute more than 25% of its total assets as reported on the corporation’s applicable financial statement.



In December 2018, the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department proposed changes to the guidelines for taxing PFICs. If approved, the new regulation will reduce some of the existing rules from the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) and will more precisely define an investment entity. More proposed changes were later released in July 2019, seeking to clarify the above insurance exception.




What Is a Considered a PFIC for U.S. Tax Purposes?
The IRS defines a passive foreign investment company (PFIC) as a non-U.S. entity that either earns 75% or more of its gross income from non-business operational activities (the income test); or, if it least 50% of its assets are held for generating passive income (the asset test).




Is PFIC Income Taxable?
Yes. Gains and distributions received from a PFIC are treated as ordinary income and must be declared on IRS Form 8621.




How Can I Avoid PFIC Status?
U.S. investors who wish to diversify globally can avoid PFIC status and taxation by looking to domestic mutual funds and ETFs that hold foreign assets. For example, a U.S. mutual fund that specializes in emerging markets stocks or else in global sovereign debt.




What Are Examples of Passive Income?
Passive income is defined by the IRS as any earnings from a rental property, limited partnership, or other business in which a person is not actively involved in the business. Common forms of passive income include rents, royalties, interest, dividends, and capital gains.


   The Bottom Line  

Prior to the mid-1980s, American investors could avoid taxation by investing in foreign business entities that generated passive income, such as rental real estate, foreign mutual funds, and global holding companies. Since then, however, this tax loophole has been closed and U.S. investors holding such foreign assets must declare this income in passive foreign investment companies (PFICs), which are taxed as ordinary income. In order to meet PFIC status, a foreign firm must have 75% of their gross income be categorized as passive, or more than half of their assets held for passive income generation.
What Is Passive Income?  

Passive income—or unearned income, as the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) calls it—is income that requires minimal effort to obtain. It is the opposite of active income, which is income received from a job or business venture that requires active participation.



Passive income includes earnings derived from a rental property, limited partnership, or other enterprise in which a person is not actively involved. While these money-generating ventures may have initially required some effort, they now generally pay out automatically without the recipient breaking out a sweat.



As with active income, passive income is usually taxable, but it is often treated differently by the IRS.





Key Takeaways

Passive income is income generated from someone other than an employer or a contractor.It can be generated by earning interest on savings, getting cash back or rewards on a credit card, renting out a space, purchasing dividend-paying stocks, and so on.The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has specific rules for what it calls material participation, which determine whether a taxpayer has actively participated in business, rental, or other income-producing activity.A taxpayer can claim a passive loss against income generated from passive activities.












Matthew Collins / Investopedia


   Understanding Passive Income  

There are three main categories of income: active income, passive income, and portfolio income. Passive incomes include earnings from a rental property, limited partnership, or other business in which a person is not actively involved—a silent investor, for example. It can also include interest generated from a bond or savings account, dividends paid out by a stock investment, and unemployment benefits.



Passive income has been a term used relatively loosely in recent years. Colloquially, it has been used to define money being earned regularly with little or no effort on the part of the person receiving it.



Definitions vary depending on who you ask. The IRS, whose opinion on these matters is very important, rules out quite a few things that could be considered passive income, including “interest, dividends, annuities, and royalties not derived in the ordinary course of a trade or business,” income tax refunds, and income derived from the cancellation of debt.



Passive is defined by the IRS as either “net rental income” or income from a “business in which the taxpayer does not materially participate,” and in some cases can include self-charged interest.






Portfolio income is considered passive income by some analysts. However, the IRS does not always agree that income from dividends, interest, and so forth is passive, so it’s wise to check with a tax professional on that subject.



   Types of Passive Income  

Passive income includes self-charged interest, rental properties, and businesses in which the person receiving income does not materially participate. There are specific IRS rules that need to be followed for income to be considered passive.


  Self-Charged Interest  

When money is lent to a partnership or an S corporation acting as a pass-through entity (essentially, a business designed to reduce the effects of double taxation) by that entity’s owner, the interest income on that loan-to-the-portfolio income can qualify as passive income. “Certain self-charged interest income or deductions may be treated as passive activity gross income or passive activity deductions if the loan proceeds are used in a passive activity,” the IRS states.


  Rental Properties  

Rental properties are defined as passive income with a couple of exceptions. If you’re a real estate professional, any rental income that you’re making counts as active income. If you’re self-renting, meaning that you own a space and rent it out to a corporation or partnership where you conduct business, that does not constitute passive income—unless that lease had been signed before 1988, in which case you’ve been exempted into having that income defined as passive.



Income from leasing land does not qualify as passive income, either. However, a landowner can benefit from passive income loss rules if the property nets a loss during the tax year.






If you hold land for investment, any earnings would be considered active.


  ‘No Material Participation’ in a Business  

If you put $500,000 into a candy store with the agreement that the owners would pay you a percentage of earnings, that would be considered passive income as long as you do not participate in the operation of the business in any meaningful way other than making the investment. If you helped in managing the company with the owners, then your income could be seen as active, because you provided “material participation.”



The IRS has standards for material participation. The following are all considered examples of material participation:



If you’ve dedicated more than 500 hours to a business or activity from which you’re profitingIf your participation in an activity has been “substantially all” of the participation for that tax yearIf you’ve participated up to 100 hours and that is at least as much as any other person involved in the activity


   How to Make Money from Passive Income  

Passive income can be a great way to generate some extra cash flow and supplement regular earnings from your day job. And there are many different ways to go about obtaining it.



Some of the simplest, most accessible ways to make money from passive income include:



Rental income: Rent out a garage, room, or a house or apartment if you have it. This can be a short-term or longer-term arrangement.
Spread knowledge: There’s a chance that there are people out there who will pay for the knowledge and expertise you’ve acquired. You could think about creating an online course or writing an ebook. There is money to be made, provided that you have something good to share and a decent market strategy. An alternative is to start a YouTube channel.
Sell goods online: Thanks to online marketplaces such as eBay, it’s relatively easy to sell stuff to people all over the country or globe. That could be anything from things sitting in your attic to buying items when they are on sale and then selling them on for closer to their retail value.
Sell photos: The internet provides all kinds of opportunities to make passive income. Another option is to sell the rights to the photos you’ve taken to other people via a specialist platform such as Getty Images, Alamy, or Shutterstock.
Peer-to-peer lending: With peer-to-peer (P2P) lending, it’s possible to operate like a financial institution, making personal loans through a third-party intermediary to other individuals and collecting the interest payments.
Invest in income stocks: Many well-established companies on the stock market pay their shareholders a regular cash payment known as a dividend. You can choose to reinvest that money back into the stock or withdraw it as income and use it as you wish.
Park your money in a certificate of deposit (CD) or savings account: It’s possible to open a bank account that pays interest on the money credited. The rate of return usually depends on interest rates in the broader economy, and how long the bank is allowed to hold the funds before you can retrieve them without paying a penalty.


   Tax Treatment of Passive Income  

The IRS usually taxes passive income at the same rate as salary received from a job. However, certain sources of income may be taxed at a different rate, and it is sometimes possible to use deductions to reduce the liability.



When you record a loss on a passive activity, only passive-activity profits can have their deductions offset, as opposed to the income as a whole. It would be prudent to ensure that all your passive activities were classified that way to make the most of the tax deduction. These deductions are allocated for the next tax year and are applied in a reasonable manner that takes into account the next year’s earnings or losses.



To save time and effort, you can group two or more passive activities into one larger activity, provided that you form an “appropriate economic unit,” according to the IRS. When you do this, instead of having to provide material participation in multiple activities, you only have to provide it for the activity as a whole. In addition, if you include multiple activities in one group and have to dispose of one of those activities, then you’ve only done away with part of a larger activity as opposed to all of a smaller one.



The organizing principle to make a grouping an appropriate unit is relatively simple: if the activities are located in the same geographic area; if the activities have similarities in the types of business; or if the activities are somehow interdependent—for instance, if they have the same customers, same employees, or use a single set of books for accounting.



For example, if you owned a pretzel store and a sneaker store located in malls in both Monterey, Calif., and Amarillo, Texas, you would have four options for how to group their passive income:



Grouped into one activity (both businesses were in shopping malls)Grouped by geography (Monterey and Amarillo)Grouped by type of business (retail sales of pretzels and shoes)Or they could remain ungrouped 




What are examples of passive income?
Passive income consists of money and losses generated from an enterprise in which a person is not actively involved. Examples include property rental (provided that real estate isn’t your line of work), equipment leasing, and limited partnership interest.




Is investment income considered passive income?
Passive income is frequently defined, somewhat loosely, as earnings derived from activities that don’t require active participation. However, interest, dividends, and capital gains—investment earnings that generally don’t require much active participation to obtain—are not classified by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) as passive income. Instead, they fall under the category of portfolio income.




Is passive income taxable?
Yes, the IRS does collect taxes on passive income. Often, this type of income is taxed at the same rate as salaries received from a job, although it is sometimes possible to use deductions to reduce the liability. For guidance on how to limit your tax obligations, it may be wise to speak to a tax professional, who can advise you on how to capitalize on your specific circumstances.




How can I make $1,000 a month from passive income?
There are plenty of ways to generate passive income. Examples include renting out a space, such as a bedroom or an entire house, investing in securities that pay dividends or interest, and selling goods and services online as a side hustle.


   The Bottom Line  

Passive income is basically earnings generated from someone other than an employer or contractor. The definition can vary slightly depending on the source and is open to interpretation. According to the IRS, passive income comes either from rental property or a business that does not require active participation.



In many cases, passive income, which can be a great way to boost personal finances, is money earned from work done up front. And, thanks to the internet, it is now more accessible than ever.
Passive investing is an investment strategy to maximize returns by minimizing buying and selling. Index investing in one common passive investing strategy whereby investors purchase a representative benchmark, such as the S&P 500 index, and hold it over a long time horizon.



Passive investing can be contrasted with active investing.





Key Takeaways

Passive investing broadly refers to a buy-and-hold portfolio strategy for long-term investment horizons, with minimal trading in the market.Index investing is perhaps the most common form of passive investing, whereby investors seek to replicate and hold a broad market index or indices.Passive investment is cheaper, less complex, and often produces superior after-tax results over medium to long time horizons than actively managed portfolios.


   Understanding Passive Investing  

Passive investing methods seek to avoid the fees and limited performance that may occur with frequent trading. Passive investing’s goal is to build wealth gradually. Also known as a buy-and-hold strategy, passive investing means buying a security to own it long-term. Unlike active traders, passive investors do not seek to profit from short-term price fluctuations or market timing. The underlying assumption of passive investment strategy is that the market posts positive returns over time.



Passive managers generally believe it is difficult to out-think the market, so they try to match market or sector performance. Passive investing attempts to replicate market performance by constructing well-diversified portfolios of single stocks, which if done individually, would require extensive research. The introduction of index funds in the 1970s made achieving returns in line with the market much easier. In the 1990s, exchange-traded funds, or ETFs, that track major indices, such as the SPDR S&P 500 ETF (SPY), simplified the process even further by allowing investors to trade index funds as though they were stocks.


   Passive Investing Benefits and Drawbacks  

Maintaining a well-diversified portfolio is important to successful investing, and passive investing via indexing is an excellent way to achieve diversification. Index funds spread risk broadly in holding all, or a representative sample of the securities in their target benchmarks. Index funds track a target benchmark or index rather than seeking winners, so they avoid constantly buying and selling securities. As a result, they have lower fees and operating expenses than actively managed funds. An index fund offers simplicity as an easy way to invest in a chosen market because it seeks to track an index. There is no need to select and monitor individual managers, or chose among investment themes.



However, passive investing is subject to total market risk. Index funds track the entire market, so when the overall stock market or bond prices fall, so do index funds. Another risk is the lack of flexibility. Index fund managers usually are prohibited from using defensive measures such as reducing a position in shares, even if the manager thinks share prices will decline. Passively managed index funds face performance constraints as they are designed to provide returns that closely track their benchmark index, rather than seek outperformance. They rarely beat the return on the index, and usually return slightly less due to fund operating costs.



Some of the key benefits of passive investing are:



Ultra-low fees: There's nobody picking stocks, so oversight is much less expensive. Passive funds follow the index they use as their benchmark.
Transparency: It's always clear which assets are in an index fund.
Tax efficiency: Their buy-and-hold strategy doesn't typically result in a massive capital gains tax for the year.
Simplicity: Owning an index, or group of indices is far easier to implement and comprehend than a dynamic strategy that requires constant research and adjustment.



Proponents of active investing would say that passive strategies have these weaknesses:



Too limited: Passive funds are limited to a specific index or predetermined set of investments with little to no variance; thus, investors are locked into those holdings, no matter what happens in the market.Smaller potential returns: By definition, passive funds will pretty much never beat the market, even during times of turmoil, as their core holdings are locked in to track the market. Sometimes, a passive fund may beat the market by a little, but it will never post the big returns active managers crave unless the market itself booms. Active managers, on the other hand, can bring bigger rewards (see below), although those rewards come with greater risk as well.


  Benefits and Limitations  

To contrast the pros and cons of passive investing, active investing also have its benefits and limitations to consider:



Flexibility: Active managers aren't required to follow a specific index. They can buy those "diamond in the rough" stocks they believe they've found.
Hedging: Active managers can also hedge their bets using various techniques such as short sales or put options, and they're able to exit specific stocks or sectors when the risks become too big. Passive managers are stuck with the stocks that the index they track holds, regardless of how they are doing.
Tax management: Even though this strategy could trigger a capital gains tax, advisors can tailor tax management strategies to individual investors, such as by selling investments that are losing money to offset the taxes on the big winners.



But active strategies have these shortcomings:



Very expensive: Thomson Reuters Lipper pegs the average expense ratio at 1.4 percent for an actively managed equity fund, compared to only 0.6 percent for the average passive equity fund. Fees are higher because all that active buying and selling triggers transaction costs, not to mention that you're paying the salaries of the analyst team researching equity picks. All those fees over decades of investing can kill returns.Active risk: Active managers are free to buy any investment they think would bring high returns, which is great when the analysts are right but terrible when they're wrong.Poor track record: The data show that very few actively managed portfolios beat their passive benchmarks, especially after taxes and fees are accounted for. Indeed, over medium to long time frames, only a small handful of actively managed mutual funds surpass their benchmark index.
What Does Past Due Mean?  

Past due refers to a payment that has not been made by its cutoff time at the end of its due date. A borrower who is past due will usually face some penalties and can be subject to late fees. Failure to repay a loan on time usually has negative implications for a borrower's credit status and may cause loan terms to be permanently adjusted.





Key Takeaways

Past due is a status referring to payments that have not been made by the cutoff time on the due date.Any type of contractual payment agreement can have provisions for missed payments.Credit is one area where past due penalties are prominent and damaging.


   Understanding Past Due  

Past due status can occur on any type of payment that has not been paid by the cutoff time on its specified due date. Payments past due are usually penalized based on the provisions of a contractual agreement. Credit agreements are one of the most common situations in which past due payments may occur.



An individual or business who takes out a loan or obtains any type of credit from a lending institution is expected to repay the loan according to the terms of the loan agreement. Lending products and loan agreements can vary drastically depending on the type of credit product offering. Some loans, like bullet loans, require a lump sum payment with interest after a specified period of time. The majority of loan products are on a monthly installment schedule which requires the borrower to pay some principal and interest with each payment. Lending institutions depend on the expected stream of cash flows outlined in loan agreements and will take penalizing steps when payments are not made on time.


   Types of Loans  

Loans generally fall into either revolving or non-revolving categories. Non-revolving credit offers a lump sum payout to the borrower. However, payment terms can potentially be diverse with borrowers required to pay only monthly interest or interest and principal after a period of time. Most non-revolving credit loans are on a regular repayment schedule, known as an amortization schedule, which includes payments of both principal and interest monthly.



Revolving credit is typically always on a monthly payment schedule. The borrower is required to make a payment every month on an established date. Revolving credit though, does not always have a regular repayment schedule. This means payments can vary each month depending on the balance outstanding. This is because revolving credit is an open-ended agreement in which the borrower has a specified credit limit in which they can access if they choose. This makes the lending process continuous with the balance depending on how much or how frequently a borrower takes out the credit. Lines of credit and credit card accounts are considered revolving credit. The borrower can dip into the credit balance available in these accounts anytime but is required to make a specified minimum payment every month by a set due date. In this case, borrowing and repayment are continuous and ongoing.


   Penalties and Late Fees  

Regardless of the type of loan contract a borrower has entered into, they have an obligation to make the required payments by the required due date. A borrower who does not make a required payment by the date due will get hit with some type of penalty. Keep in mind, many lenders have time cutoffs on the due date which the borrower must be aware of when making payments. For example, some lenders may require payment to be received by 8:00 PM Eastern Standard Time while others may allow payment up until midnight in the borrower’s time zone. If a loan payment is due by the 10th of the month and is not paid within the specified time constraints, the payment will be considered past due.



Late fees are one of the most expensive penalties that can occur for a past due bill.






Lenders can charge anywhere from $20 to $50 for a late payment.



This becomes a good source of revenue for the lender and also a charge that helps to cover some delinquency risks. Some lenders may not charge late fees at all. This can be a good feature to look out for when applying for new credit. When late fees are charged, they can be substantial and if they accumulate they can be difficult to pay off.


  Credit Scoring  

If a lender charges no late fees, a borrower will still be penalized by credit reporting which can affect their credit score. Payment activity usually accounts for the largest portion of a credit scoring methodology at around 35%. Most borrowers do not report delinquencies until after 60 days past due but if a payment is missed at any time a lender can report it. Delinquencies stay on a credit report for seven years. This is another reason they can be damaging. There is nothing a borrower can do to erase delinquencies, unlike paying down credit utilization, which is the second most important credit scoring factor.


   Other Considerations  

Depending on the policy of a lender, the borrower will either immediately be charged a late fee and/or will be reported delinquent after missing a required payment. Some lenders may offer grace periods. Grace periods can be another feature to look out for when applying for credit or reviewing credit terms. If, for example, there is a grace period of 10 days, the borrower would not be charged a late fee until 10 days after the due date cutoff. If the payment is still not made by the end of the grace period, late fees or additional interest may be applied. Grace periods may also be modified if a borrower exploits the benefit. If there is a pattern of late payments, the grace period may be shortened or removed.



When a borrower who is overdue on his payments receives his next account statement, the balance owed will be the current balance plus his overdue balance plus any late charges and interest fees. To bring the account up to good standing, the borrower must make the required minimum payments including any late fees or they may be further penalized. A lender may also increase the interest rate on the account as a penalty, which increases the amount owed. Lenders can often decrease or increase interest rates depending on payment history.



An individual or business that is 30 days behind schedule on a loan payment may be reported delinquent to the credit bureaus. After 180 days of not making payments on an overdue account, the debtor may not have the option to pay in installments anymore. Usually by this time, the lender will have charged off the loan and sold it to a debt collection agency. In a charge off the lender writes off the loan amount as a loss, with the loss depending on any salvage value that might be obtained from a sale. Uncollected debts will still be sought out even after a charge off. Collection agencies can often be more aggressive and proactive than a lender’s collection department, also continuing to report damaging information that affects a credit score. 



Loans are not the only type of agreement subject to past due penalties. Other agreements that can involve past due delinquencies include tax obligations, mobile phone contracts, and lease agreements. Each contract will have its own provisions for the occurrence of past due payments. Moreover, all types of missed payments can be reported to credit bureaus for credit reporting purposes.



There can be many options for resolving all kinds of unpaid debts, including bankruptcy, settlement, and debt consolidation loan offers. Ultimately, its best to take proactive measures to ensure debt is paid on time in order to avoid expensive penalties and costly exit strategies.
What Is a Patent?  

A patent is the granting of a property right by a sovereign authority to an inventor. This grant provides the inventor exclusive rights to the patented process, design, or invention for a designated period in exchange for a comprehensive disclosure of the invention. They are a form of incorporeal right.



Government agencies typically handle and approve applications for patents. In the United States, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO), which is part of the Department of Commerce, handles applications and grants approvals.





Key Takeaways

A patent is the granting of a property right by a sovereign authority to an inventor. A patent provides the inventor exclusive rights to the patented process, design, or invention for a certain period in exchange for a complete disclosure of the invention.In June of 2018, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office issued its 10 millionth patent.Utility patents are the most common patent issued in the United States, accounting for 90% of all issued patents.Utility and plant patents are granted for 20 years, whereas design patents are granted for either 14 or 15 years, depending on when filed.


   Understanding Patents  

Most patents are valid for 20 years in the U.S. from the date the application was filed with the USPTO, although there are circumstances where exceptions are made to extend a patent's term. U.S. patents are only valid in the United States and U.S. Territories. If seeking protection outside of the United States, it is important to research the intellectual property rights of other nations and apply for protection with their governing authorities.



According to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, a patent can be granted to any person who:



Invents or discovers any new and useful process, machine, manufacture, or composition of matter, or any new and useful improvement thereof, may obtain a patent, subject to the conditions and requirements of the law.


   Types of Patents  

There are three types of patents available in the United States: utility patents, design patents, and plant patents. Each has its own specifications and durations.


  Utility Patents  

Utility patents, or patents for invention, issue legal protection to people who invent a new and useful process, an article of manufacture, a machine, or a composition of matter. Utility patents are the most common type of patent, with more than 90% of patents issued by the U.S. government belonging to this category. A utility patent lasts for 20 years from the date of filing as long as maintenance fees are paid. Maintenance fees are surcharges applied to utility patent applications filed after December 12, 1980.


  Design Patents  

Design patents are patents issued for original, new, and ornamental designs for manufactured products. Design patents protect the design or look of something. They require the invention to which the design belongs to be original and useful. Design patents last for 15 years for applications filed after May 13, 2015. For applications filed before May 13, 2015, patents last for 14 years from the date of the filing. Maintenance fees do not apply to design patents.﻿﻿


  Plant Patents  

Plant patents go to anyone who produces, discovers, and invents a new kind of plant capable of reproduction. These patents are granted for 20 years from the date of filing and no maintenance fees apply.



Patents provide an incentive for companies or individuals to continue developing innovative products or services without the fear of infringement. For example, large pharmaceutical companies can spend billions of dollars on research and development. Without patents, their drugs and medicines could be duplicated and sold by companies that didn't research or invest the needed capital for R&D.



In other words, patents protect the intellectual property of companies to help their profitability. However, patents also serve as bragging rights for companies demonstrating their innovativeness.


   How to Apply for a Patent  

Before making a formal application, an applicant should research the Patent and Trademark Office's database to see if another person or institution has claimed a patent for a similar invention. The invention must be different from or an improvement upon a previous design to be considered for a patent. Applicants need to take care to maintain accurate records of the design process and the steps taken to create the invention. Enforcing the patent is up to the person or entity that applied for the patent.



To apply for a patent in the United States, the applicant submits specific documents and pays associated fees. Written documentation includes drawings, descriptions, and claims of the item to be patented. A formal oath or declaration confirming the authenticity of the invention or improvement of an existing invention must be signed and submitted by the inventor. After fee payment, the application is reviewed and either approved or denied.






Patents protect the intellectual property of companies and help ensure their profitability, but patents also serve as marketing for a company's innovation.


   Patent Statistics  

The USPTO receives more than 500,000 patent applications per year with just over 300,000 of them granted. The agency has over 11,000 employees, whereby approximately 75% of them are patent examiners while the remaining work in the legal and technical areas.



In June of 2018, the USPTO issued its 10 millionth patent. Many patents issued go to companies in the technology industry where Apple was granted 2,000 in 2018. Microsoft and Google were also granted patents. However, IBM typically receives more than any company in the U.S.—IBM was granted over 9,000 patents in 2017 alone as reported by CNN Business.






   Examples of Patents  

One of the most notable patents in the past 40 years was the personal computer filed in 1980 by Steve Jobs and three other employees of Apple Inc.



King C. Gillette patented the razor in 1904 and was dubbed a "safety razor." Garrett Morgan was granted a patent for the traffic light in 1923. The patent for the television was issued in 1930 to Philo Taylor Farnsworth for the "first television system."



At age 20, Farnsworth had created the first electric television image and went on to invent an early model of the electronic microscope.


   Patents vs. Trademarks vs. Copyrights  

Patents are legal rights issued to inventors to protect their inventions for a certain time, usually 20 years. They exclude others from reproducing, using, or profiting from it without the expressed permission of the patent owner. The granting authority issues a patent in exchange for permission to publish details about the invention, such as how it's made and what it's used for.



Trademarks are legal protections on words, phrases, designs, or marks that identify a specific product or service. Trademarks are intellectual property that contribute to the image and reputation of the product or service to which it belongs, and to the company to which it belongs. Beyond symbolism, a trademark can be incredibly valuable to a company, prompting some companies to include them in their valuation. Trademarks are protected forever, as long as it's in use and the holder can defend it. Examples of trademarks include the golden arch for McDonald's, the Nike swoosh, and Apple's apple.



Copyrights are legal protections on creative works of the mind, or according to the United States Patent and Trademark Office "original works of authorship." They include visual art, literary works, other writings, choreography, and software. Copyrights prevent others from reproducing the work without the expressed permission of the copyright owner. Like other intellectual property, copyrights are granted for a specific time, allowing the holder to benefit from its creation. Copyrights are granted for the maximum period of 70 years from the death of the author. Exceptions apply to works for hire and anonymous works.






Copyrights for works for hire or anonymous works are granted for 95 years from its publication or 120 years from creation, which occurs first.


   Patent FAQs  
  What Does Patent Mean?  

A patent is a legal right to an invention given to a person or entity without interference from others who wish to replicate, use, or sell it. Patents are granted by governing authorities and have a time limit, usually 20 years.


  What Are Examples of Patents?  

Examples of historic patented inventions include common products that we use daily, including the telephone, dishwasher, and lightbulb. Ones without expired protection include Boeing's Water Harvesting system, Disney's method for reproducing human actions with robots, and Google's medical response drone.


  What Are the 3 Types of Patents?  

The three types of patents are utility patents, design patents, and plant patents. Utility patents are issued for inventions that are novel and useful. Design patents protect the design or image of a product. Plant patents are issued to applicants for plants that can reproduce.


  How Much Is a Patent?  

Patent costs vary according to the type of patent applied for and are based on several other factors, such as the type of applicant, provisional or nonprovisional status, and associated fees—search fees, examination fees, post-allowance fees, the cost of a patent agent or attorney, and more. If using the services of an attorney, you can expect costs to range from approximately $5,000 to more than $45,000.


  How Long Does a Patent Last?  

Utility and plant patents last for 20 years from the date of filing, while design patents last for 15 years if filed after May 13, 2015, or 14 years if filed before May 13, 2015.


   The Bottom Line  

Patents are legal rights granted to inventors for their creations. Government divisions, such as the United States Patent and Trademark Office issue patents and other intellectual property rights to U.S. citizens. Patent rights give exclusive rights to use, replicate, or sell the protected invention without interference from others who wish to do the same. In exchange, the issuing authority is granted the right to publish the details of the invention.



Patents are granted for a limited time, such as 20 years from the date of filing for plant and utility patents and 14 or 15 years for design patents. Patents issued in the United States only offer protection within the U.S. To extend protection in other nations, the applicant must apply with the governing authority of that nation.
What Is the Protecting Americans From Tax Hikes (PATH) Act?  

The Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act of 2015 was an Obama-era law that expanded or renewed several tax credits for individuals, families, and businesses while implementing measures to prevent fraudulent claims for those credits. The act remains in force.



The act primarily affects people who are eligible to receive certain tax credits:



People filing for the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) or the Additional Child Tax Credit (ACTC) must have a Social Security number or a valid Individual Taxpayer Identification Number (ITIN). If an ITIN has not been used in a tax filing during the previous three years, it is no longer valid, and a new number must be obtained.In any case, refunds that include these credits are not issued before Feb. 15 of each year. That gives the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) time to check for fraudulent claims.



The PATH Act renewed about 50 temporary tax breaks for individuals and businesses that had passed their original expiration dates.





Key Takeaways

The Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 2015 renewed some 50 tax breaks for individuals and businesses.It also established procedures to forestall attempts to defraud the government by falsely claiming tax credits.The Child Tax Credit and the Earned Income Tax Credit, both created as temporary tax breaks for families, were made permanent under the Path act.The act also retroactively extended the Work Opportunity Tax Credit, a credit for employers who hire individuals from groups that have consistently faced employment barriers.The Child Tax Credit didn't appear in the Inflation Reduction Act, which was signed into law by President Joe Biden in August 2022.


   Understanding the PATH Act  

The PATH Act focused on several tax credits for individuals, families, and businesses. It extended some credits permanently and expanded eligibility for others.



A tax credit, in general, is more valuable to the taxpayer than a tax deduction. A tax deduction merely reduces the person's taxable income. A tax credit reduces the amount of taxes owed, dollar for dollar.



A tax credit may also be refundable or partially refundable. In that case, a low-income taxpayer might owe little or no taxes and receive a check from the IRS for some or all of the credit.


   Special Considerations  

Tax credits are particularly vulnerable to fraud by taxpayers seeking to score credits they aren't eligible for and by con artists preying upon eligible taxpayers. This was notably through the Child Tax Credit and the Earned Income Credit.


  Child Tax Credit  

The Child Tax Credit (CTC) program, which was substantially expanded to relieve American families of some of the financial burden caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, delivered payments of up to $300 per month per child to taxpayers below certain income levels through 2021.






The CTC reverted back to pre-pandemic levels in 2022 and is adjusted slightly for inflation annually.



Eligible taxpayers automatically received those payments because the IRS had the information it needed to identify them. But those whose incomes were so low that they didn't have to file were required to sign up for the credit online.



And that fact opened up an opportunity for con artists masquerading as IRS agents. They approached people by text, email, phone, and social media, posing as government representatives to trick personal information out of the unwitting.



The other target for fraud, of course, was the IRS itself. Tax filers could commit fraud by underreporting their income or inventing dependents to qualify for the credit.


  Earned Income Credit  

A second opportunity for attempting to defraud the IRS occurred through the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC). This credit, worth $560 to $6,935 a year, is available to low and moderate-income individuals, with larger amounts credited to families with children.



An attempted fraud can occur when someone files a tax return that falsifies the person's earned income, the number of children in the family, or both.






The IRS warns that people eligible for the Child Tax Credit are being bombarded with calls, texts, email messages, and social media posts from scam artists seeking to steal their money. The agency warns taxpayers not to disclose personal or financial information to anyone purporting to be from the IRS.


   Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) and Additional Child Tax Credit (ACTC)  

There was no change in the tax filing process due to the PATH Act. In most cases, the IRS expects to send refund checks within 21 days.



However, if you file an EITC or ACTC return early in the year, the IRS will hold your refund check until Feb. 15. The reason for the delay is to provide the IRS with additional time to identify fraudulent claims and to prevent refunds from being paid to identity thieves.



The EITC applies to low-income and medium-income individuals and families with or without children. Tax credits depend on the number of children. The full ACTC amount applies to all families that make less than $200,000 ($400,000 filing jointly) and decreases as income increases over that level.



If the EITC or ACTC doesn't apply to you, or if you file taxes after Feb. 15, the PATH Act does not affect the timing of your refund.






The EITC has a cap of $560 for childless households in 2022 and $600 in 2023. 


   New and Extended Tax Provisions in the PATH Act  

The PATH Act renewed many expired tax laws and introduced a few new laws affecting individuals and businesses. Many tax deductions set to expire, such as tuition deductions, certain charitable contributions, and residential energy credits, were extended with retroactive credit.



Below are a few PATH Act changes and extensions for individuals and businesses.


  Extension of the Work Opportunity Tax Credit (WOTC)  

Employers may be eligible for a Work Opportunity Tax Credit (WOTC) if they hire individuals from specified target groups that have historically faced barriers to employment.



The PATH Act retroactively extended WOTC eligibility to workers hired on or after Jan. 1, 2015. The WOTC includes nine categories of workers and an additional category for long-term unemployment recipients hired on or after Jan. 1, 2016.


  Wrongful-Incarceration Exclusion  

The PATH Act allows exonerated people to omit any monetary awards related to wrongful incarceration from their reported earned income. It also provides wrongfully-incarcerated individuals with a window to file refund claims related to restitution or monetary awards (including civil damages) received and reported in a prior tax year. The term "PATH Act Refund" is sometimes applied to this provision.


  Renewal of Individual Taxpayer Identification Number (ITIN)  

The ITIN is used primarily by taxpayers who cannot obtain a Social Security number (SSN). Most are foreign citizens who earn income in the U.S. or from U.S. sources.



The PATH act required these taxpayers to get a new ITIN number if they have one but have not used it in a tax return in the previous three years.



An ITIN number can be obtained by mailing Form W-7 to the IRS or visiting an IRS office or IRS-authorized agent.



Using an expired ITIN could result in a refund delay or ineligibility for tax credits.


   Tax Policy Today  

As a topic of debate and discussion, the PATH Act has long been supplanted by newer legislation, some of which deal with the tax credits renewed back in 2015. The fate of the Child Tax Credit is particularly at issue.



The American Rescue Plan, passed in 2020 to relieve taxpayers harmed economically by the COVID-19 pandemic, extended the Child Tax Credit to many more American Families and increased the size of the payments. That provision expired at the end of 2021.



The expanded Child Tax Credit was set to be expanded by the Build Back Better bill, which was proposed by President Joe Biden. The House of Representatives passed the measure, but it stalled in the Senate. The expanded credit, however, didn't appear in the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 at the federal level, which replaced the BBB bill and was signed into law on Aug. 16, 2022.




What Is the PATH Act?
The Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act was legislation passed in 2015 that made specific changes to tax laws.




What Does Path Mean on Refund?
A Path Act Refund is a term used to refer to the refund issued to wrongfully incarcerated individuals.




Is the PATH Act a Good Thing?
The PATH Act had several provisions that addressed issues for lower-income taxpayers and created steps to protect taxpayers from fraudulent activity. Other provisions addressed separate tax issues that have generally been accepted as good changes.
What Is Path Dependency?  

Path dependency explains the continued use of a product or practice based on historical preference or use. A company may persist in the use of a product or practice even if newer, more efficient alternatives are available. Path dependency occurs because it is often easier or more cost-effective to continue along an already set path than to create an entirely new one.





Key Takeaways

Path dependency is a phenomenon whereby history matters; what has occurred in the past persists because of resistance to change.The resistance to change could be based on the financial implications or because policymakers are making cautious or uninformed decisions.Industries follow path dependency when initial concepts or standards are adopted and maintained even if there is a better alternative.


   Understanding Path Dependency  

Scholars describe path dependence in the context of the historical-institutionalist approach to political science. The theory behind the approach is that institutions change less than might be expected and constrain advancement. The reason for the lack of change is that policymakers make assumptions, make cautious decisions, and fail to learn from experience.



Path dependency can also be a result of an inability or a reluctance to commit to change because of the cost implications. A town that is built around a factory is a good example of path dependence. Ideally, a factory is located at a distance away from residential areas for various reasons. However, factories are often built first, and the workers' homes and amenities are built close by. It would be far too costly to move an already established factory, even though it would better serve the community if it were located on the outskirts of town.






According to Ian Greener, a contributor to The Encyclopedia Britannica, studies of how technologies become path-dependent suggest that supplier and customer preferences lead to a dominant technology even if it might be inferior to an alternative.


   The Effects of Path Dependency on Businesses  

Industries follow path dependency if an initial concept, method, or innovation is adopted as a standard. For example, the use of fossil fuels as primary energy sources persists, in part, because a multitude of tertiary industries is intrinsically tied to fossil fuel use.



The automotive industry continues to manufacture vehicles with gasoline-fueled, internal combustion engines although the resource's supply is ultimately finite. There is a considerable exploration of alternative fuels and power sources; however, they lack the research time and infrastructure commitment already established for gasoline-fueled transportation and machines. Despite the rising costs and increased scarcity associated with fossil fuels, a long-term or renewable successor resource that can meet worldwide demand has yet to be developed at scale.



Path dependency can influence strategies within companies, sometimes to the detriment of the business. For example, most companies have a core product or system that establishes their market presence. Over time, rival products and methods might appear in the market that represent more competitive or lucrative opportunities. Path dependency can contribute to a reluctance or inability to invest in forward-thinking innovations. The introduction of digital photography, for example, presented such a challenge to camera film manufacturers.



Palm, the defunct maker of early personal digital assistants, found itself in comparable circumstances as the growth of the smartphone market eclipsed its devices. Although Palm’s technology saw widespread use as a novel way to access mobile computing, the company did not adopt new strategies that would help it maintain relevance as smartphones became the dominant mobile devices.






According to Ian Greener, a contributor to Encyclopedia Britannica, the QWERTY keyboard is a result of path dependence because it is still in use despite being suboptimal in terms of typing speed.
What Is the USA PATRIOT Act?  

The Patriot Act, or USA PATRIOT Act, was passed shortly after the terrorist attacks in the United States that occurred on September 11, 2001, and gave law enforcement agencies broader powers to investigate, indict, and bring terrorists to justice. It also led to increased penalties for committing and supporting terrorist crimes.



An acronym for “Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism,” the USA PATRIOT Act lowered the threshold for law enforcement to obtain intelligence and information against suspected spies, terrorists, and other enemies of the United States.





Key Takeaways

The Patriot Act is a U.S. law granting law enforcement more powers to prevent terrorist attacks.The act, USA PATRIOT, is an acronym for “Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism.” The law requires the financial industry to report suspicious customer behaviors to prevent terrorism-related money laundering.Proponents of the Patriot Act claim it provides necessary tools to law enforcement in combating terrorism.Critics of the Patriot Act say the law infringes on constitutional rights of privacy.


   History of the Patriot Act  

The Patriot Act, the common reference for the USA PATRIOT Act, was passed by the U.S. Congress and signed into law by President George W. Bush on Oct. 26, 2001, following the September 11th terrorist attacks against the United States.



It enhanced previous legislation from April 1996, entitled the “Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996,” enacted during the Clinton administration following the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing.



The Patriot Act aimed to increase homeland security and expanded tools available to law enforcement and federal agents such as:



• Surveillance, wiretapping, and roving wiretaps to track and investigate terror-related crimes.



• Obtaining bank records and business financial records to prevent money laundering for terrorism financing.



• Improved intelligence sharing between government agencies.



• Tougher penalties for convicted terrorists and those who aid them.



• Allowing for delayed search warrants.



• Preventing aliens involved in terrorist activities to enter the United States.


   Implications of the Patriot Act  

Police officers, FBI agents, federal prosecutors, and intelligence officials are better able to share information and evidence on individuals and plots, thus enhancing their protection of communities.



Federal agents may use court orders to obtain business records from hardware stores or chemical plants to determine who may be buying materials to construct bombs. Bank records can be obtained to determine if an individual or entity is sending money to terrorists or suspect organizations.





National Security Letters

The Patriot Act widened the use of National Security Letters issued by the FBI which are issued without a judge's approval to obtain phone records, bank records, or computer records.



The Patriot Act impacts financial professionals and financial institutions with its Title III provision, entitled "International Money Laundering Abatement and Financial Anti-Terrorism Act of 2001,” targeting parties suspected of terrorism, terrorist financing, and money laundering.



Banks must also investigate accounts owned by political figures suspected of past corruption and there are greater restrictions on the use of internal bank concentration accounts that fail to effectively maintain audit trails.



The Bank Secrecy Act of 1970 (BSA), The Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act, requires banks to record cash purchases of instruments that have daily aggregate values of $10,000 or more, an amount that triggers suspicion of tax evasion and other questionable practices and the Patriot Act makes concealing more than $10,000 on anyone’s physical person an offense punishable by up to five years in prison.



The Act expanded the definition of money laundering to include computer crimes, the bribing of elected officials, and the fraudulent handling of public funds. Money laundering now encompasses the exportation or importation of controlled munitions not approved by the U.S. Attorney General.


   Advantages of the Patriot Act  

The Patriot Act and its merit have been debated since its inception in 2001 and advocates claim the Act has made anti-terrorism efforts more streamlined, efficient, and effective.



According to the Department of Justice, the Patriot Act has incapacitated at least 3,000 operatives worldwide, broken terrorist cells in Buffalo, Detroit, Seattle, Portland, and Northern Virginia, designated 40 terrorist organizations, and frozen at least $136 million in suspected assets around the world.



Roving wiretaps allow tracking of international terrorists trained to avoid surveillance. The option to delay notifying terrorist suspects of a search warrant gives law enforcement time to identify the criminal’s associates and eliminate immediate community threats.



The Patriot Act facilitates information sharing and cooperation among government agencies so that they can better "connect the dots." With more unity through multiple communication channels, investigating officers can act quickly before a suspected attack is completed.






Increased wiretapping under the Patriot Act lets investigators listen to conversations that could potentially be threatening to the national security of a country, but groups like the American Civil Liberties Union have questioned the risk of abuse of wiretapping American citizens.


   Disadvantages of the Patriot Act  

Civil rights groups have claimed the Patriot Act violates Constitutional rights and allows the government to spy on individuals without due process and search their homes without consent.



The Act enhanced the use of national security letters, NSLs, an administrative subpoena issued by the United States government to gather information, like telephone records, or bank records, for national security purposes. However, the Patriot Act does not require information obtained by an NSL to be destroyed, even for an innocent citizen.



Critics argue that basic rights under the Fourth Amendment have been compromised by the Patriot Act as delayed warrants allow officials to enter homes or offices and conduct searches while the occupant is away.



The business, finance, and investment communities are affected by heightened documentation requirements and due diligence responsibilities for account holders who conduct international business.



Suspected terrorists have been imprisoned at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and other sites with delayed due process. In addition, following 9/11, many Muslims, South Asians, and Arabs, and their communities, were unfairly targeted and racially profiled due to the passage of the Patriot Act.




What Is the USA Freedom Act?
To help prevent the Patriot Act from infringing on the civil liberties of American citizens, President Barack Obama signed the USA Freedom Act into law on June 2, 2015, ending the bulk collection of phone records under Section 215 of the Patriot Act. It also required transparency between the United States Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court and the American people but allows the government to track suspected foreign terrorists for 72 hours after they enter the United States.




What Is a Sneak and Peek Search?
The Patriot Act allows federal law enforcement to delay giving notice and conduct secret searches of homes or offices as deemed necessary while the occupant of a home or business is away.




What Is the USA Patriot and Terrorism Reauthorization Act?
Many of the Patriot Act’s requirements were set to expire in 2005 and despite continued civil liberties and privacy concerns, President George W. Bush signed the USA Patriot and Terrorism Reauthorization Act on March 9, 2006, continuing the use of the provisions already in place.


   The Bottom Line  

The USA PATRIOT Act, commonly known as the Patriot Act, was signed into law by President George W. Bush on Oct. 26, 2001, following the September 11 terrorist attacks. It enhanced the abilities of law enforcement regarding surveillance, money laundering for terrorism financing, and improved intelligence sharing between government agencies.
What Is a Pattern Day Trader (PDT)?  

A pattern day trader (PDT) is a regulatory designation for those traders or investors who execute four or more day trades over the span of five business days using a margin account. The number of day trades must constitute more than 6% of the margin account’s total trade activity during that five-business-day window.



If this occurs, the trader’s account will be flagged as a PDT by their broker. The PDT designation places certain restrictions on further trading; this designation is put in place to discourage investors from trading excessively.





Key Takeaways

A pattern day trader (PDT) is a trader who executes four or more day trades within five business days using the same account.Pattern day trading is automatically identified by one’s broker, and PDTs are subject to additional regulatory scrutiny and limitations.Pattern day traders are required to hold $25,000 in their margin accounts. If the account drops below $25,000, they will be prohibited from making any further day trades until the balance is brought back up.






   Understanding Pattern Day Traders (PDTs)  

Pattern day traders may trade different types of securities, including stock options and short sales. Any type of trade will be accounted for, in terms of this designation, as long as they occur on the same day.



Pattern day traders can trade amounts up to what is known as their day-trading buying power. This is generally equal to four times the equity they hold in excess of their maintenance margin, or the minimum equity that traders need to keep in their margin account. Those without the PDT designation can trade only up to two times their amount of excess equity.



If there is a margin call, the pattern day trader will have five business days to answer it. Their trading will be restricted to that of two times the maintenance margin excess until the call has been met. Failing to address this issue after five business days will result in a 90-day cash-restricted account status, or until such time that the issues have been resolved.



Note that long and short positions that have been held overnight—but sold prior to new purchases of the same security the next day—are exempt from the PDT designation.






Pattern day trading is limited to stock and equity options trades.


   Regulations That Govern Pattern Day Traders  

The PDT designation is determined by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA); it differs from that of a standard day trader by the number of day trades completed in a time frame. Although both groups have mandatory minimum assets that must be held in their margin accounts, a pattern day trader must hold at least $25,000 in their account. That amount need not necessarily be cash; it can be a combination of cash and eligible securities. If the trader’s equity in the account drops below $25,000, they will be prohibited at this point from making any further day trades until the balance is brought back up.



FINRA has established a rule requiring that all PDTs have a minimum of $25,000 in their brokerage accounts in a combination of cash and certain securities as a way of reducing risk. If the cash equity in the account drops below this $25,000 threshold, then the PDT can no longer complete any day trades until the account is back up above that point. This is known as the Pattern Day Trader Rule, or the PDT Rule. These rules are set forth as an industry standard, but individual brokerage firms may have stricter interpretations of them. They may also allow their investors to self-identify as day traders.


   Example of Pattern Day Trading  

Consider the case of a pattern day trader with $100,000 in assets in her margin account. The general requirements for margin accounts stipulate that she would need to have equity, or ownership, of at least 25% of those assets, or $25,000. If the trader’s equity comes to $30,000 instead, that leaves her with $5,000 in excess of her maintenance margin.



As a pattern day trader, she could be eligible to purchase up to four times her maintenance margin excess, or $20,000 worth of stock. This is double the amount that an average margin account holder with the same balance and equity could trade, which is typically two times maintenance margin excess, or $10,000.



This capacity to make larger trades brings with it the potential for higher returns, which can make the strategy of pattern day trading seem appealing for high-net-worth individuals (HNWIs). However, like most practices that have the potential for higher returns, the potential for significant losses can be even greater.




Why has my broker flagged me as a pattern day trader?
Brokers automatically flag pattern day traders. These are customers who execute four or more day trades within five business days, provided that the number of day trades represents more than 6% of the customer’s total trades in a margin account for that same five-business-day period. This rule is a minimum requirement, and some broker-dealers may use a slightly broader definition in determining whether a customer qualifies as a pattern day trader. 




What is classified as a day trade?
Day trading refers to buying, then selling or selling short, then buying, the same security on the same day. Just purchasing a security, without selling it later that same day, would not be considered a day trade.




Should I be concerned that I’ve been flagged as a pattern day trader?
Not necessarily, but you will face certain account restrictions or requirements. Under Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) rules, customers designated “pattern day traders” by their broker must have at least $25,000 in their accounts and can only trade in margin accounts. If the account falls below that requirement, then the pattern day trader will not be permitted to day trade until the account is restored to the $25,000 minimum equity level. The margin rule applies to day trading in any security, including options.




I am not trading as frequently anymore, so why is my broker still flagging me?
In general, once your account has been flagged by your broker as a pattern day trader, they will continue to regard you as a pattern day trader even if you do not day trade for a while. This is because the firm will have a “reasonable belief” that you are a pattern day trader based on your prior trading activities. However, if you have decided to reduce or cease your day-trading activities, you should contact your brokerage to discuss the appropriate coding of your account.


   The Bottom Line  

The label of pattern day trader (PDT) applies to people who carry out four or more day trades in a five-business-day span using their margin account. If your brokerage firm classifies you as a PDT based on your trading activity, you become subject to additional requirements, such as maintaining equity of at least $25,000 in your margin account. If the equity in a PDT’s account falls below this amount, their broker may prohibit them from trading until the minimum balance is restored.
What Is Pay Yourself First?  

"Pay yourself first" is an investor mentality and phrase popular in personal finance and retirement-planning literature that means automatically routing a specified savings contribution from each paycheck at the time it is received.



Because the savings contributions are automatically routed from each paycheck to your savings or investment account, you are "paying yourself first." In other words, paying yourself before you begin paying your monthly living expenses and making discretionary purchases.





Key Takeaways

"Pay yourself first" is a personal finance strategy of increased and consistent savings and investment while also promoting frugality.The goal is to make sure that enough income is first saved or invested before monthly expenses or discretionary purchases are made.Data from the federal reserve shows that most Americans do not have enough money saved, either for retirement or for near-term emergencies.


   The Basics of Pay Yourself First  

Many personal finance professionals and retirement planners tout the "pay yourself first" plan as a very effective way to ensure you continue making your chosen savings contributions month after month.



This suggestion hinges on the fact that It removes the temptation to skip a contribution and spend the funds on expenses other than savings. Regular savings contributions can go a long way toward building a long-term nest egg, and some financial professionals even go so far as to call "pay yourself first" the golden rule of personal finance.



If you are using the "pay yourself first" method of personal finance, you may opt to put your money in a range of savings vehicles, depending on your financial objectives. The phrase can refer to earmarking a certain percentage of your paycheck to be contributed to your retirement accounts, such as a 401(k) or an IRA.



Alternatively, you may put the funds in a cash savings account. "Paying yourself first" simply involves building up a retirement account, creating an emergency fund, or saving for other long-term goals, such as buying a house.






Financial advisors recommend measures such as downsizing to reduce bills to free up some money for savings.


   Do Americans Use Pay Yourself First as a Financial Strategy?  

Research on savings indicates that a relatively small percentage of Americans follow the "pay yourself first" adage. In fact, the Federal Reserve reports that in 2019 (the most recent figures available) less than 40% of Americans could not cover a $400 emergency in cash.﻿﻿



The advantage of "paying yourself first" out of your paycheck is that you build up a nest egg to secure your future, and create a cushion for financial emergencies such as your car breaking down or unexpected medical expenses. Without savings, many people report experiencing a large amount of stress. However, many people claim that they simply do not earn enough money to save and fear that if they start saving, they may not have enough money to cover their bills.


   Special Considerations  

It's also important to know that money set aside for retirement, especially in a Roth IRA, is accessible if needed. Fear of having no money in emergencies is no reason to refuse to benefit from tax-advantaged retirement savings plans.
What Is Payable on Death (POD)?  

Payable on death (POD) is an arrangement between a bank or credit union and a client that designates beneficiaries to receive all of the client’s assets. The immediate transfer of assets is triggered by the death of the client. Though morbid, these structures are important to understand.



Payable on death is also referred to as a Totten trust.





Key Takeaways

Payable on death (POD) is an arrangement that an individual makes with financial institutions to designate beneficiaries to their bank accounts or certificates of deposit (CDs).A POD arrangement is also known as a Totten trust.PODs are simpler to create and maintain than trusts and wills.


   Understanding Payable on Death (POD)  

An individual with an account or a certificate of deposit (CD) at a bank can designate a beneficiary who will inherit any money in the account after their death. A bank account with a named beneficiary is called a payable on death (POD) account. People who opt for POD accounts do so to keep their money out of probate court in the event that they pass away.



It is easy to convert an account to a POD account. Designating a beneficiary is a cost-free service that allows for the transfer of all checking and savings accounts, security deposits, savings bonds, and other deposit certificates by filling out the proper forms at your bank or credit union. The account holder needs only to notify the bank of who the beneficiary should be. The bank, on its end, will give the owner of the account a beneficiary designation form called a Totten trust to fill out. The completed form gives the bank authorization to convert the account to a POD.



The named beneficiary is not entitled to any of the money in the account while the account holder is still alive. Upon death, the beneficiary automatically becomes the owner of the account, bypassing the account holder’s estate and skipping probate completely. In the event that the owner of a POD account passes away with unpaid debts and taxes, their POD account may be subject to claims by creditors and the government.



If the account holder lives in a community property state, their spouse has a claim to half of the assets in the POD account, except the assets that were acquired before marriage or funds that were inherited.



If the account was jointly owned by more than one person, a named beneficiary cannot access the funds until the last owner dies. In this case, the assets in the account will be turned over to the beneficiaries named by the last surviving owner.



There are no stipulations on the minimum amount of money that must be available in the account upon death. There are also no limitations to a POD account—the account holder can spend all the money prior to their death, change the beneficiary on the account, or close the account completely.



To lay claim to the funds, the beneficiary has to present a government ID as proof of identity in addition to a certified copy of the death certificate.


   Benefits of a POD Account  

A significant benefit of POD accounts is that an account owner can increase their coverage limit under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC). The standard coverage limit for an individual’s assets at a particular financial institution, including checking and savings accounts, money market accounts, and CDs, is $250,000.



Since a POD is a type of revocable living trust that has someone else with a beneficiary interest on the account, the FDIC provides up to $1,250,000 coverage on up to five accounts at a single bank where each account has a differently named beneficiary. Each beneficiary cannot be covered for more than $250,000. Instead of saving $1,250,000 in one account, which will only be insured for up to $250,000, having multiple POD accounts can increase an account holder’s coverage by up to five times the standard limit.



As a general rule, a POD account can have more than one beneficiary. However, if the account owner wants each beneficiary to receive unequal portions of the assets in the account, they must check that their state laws allow it, given that some states only permit an equal distribution of funds in a POD account.



It is important to note that a POD is more powerful than a last will and testament. If a POD account has one individual named as the beneficiary, and the will of the account holder lists another individual as a beneficiary, the POD-designated beneficiary prevails. The named beneficiary on the POD account is not required to honor the account holder’s last will and testament, which makes it imperative that the individual ensures to change or cancel the POD beneficiary if they have someone else listed on their will.



A POD account is very similar to a transfer-on-death (TOD) arrangement but deals with a person’s bank assets instead of their stocks, bonds, mutual funds, or other investment assets. Both POD and TOD agreements offer quick means of dispersing assets, as both avoid the probate process, which can take several months.


   Drawbacks of a POD Account  

The main drawback of a POD account is that it is not possible to name alternate beneficiaries to your account. If the person whom you nominated to receive the proceeds dies before you, then the contents of your account are automatically transferred to an estate or will. Naming multiple beneficiaries to the account can help offset this drawback.



Another drawback of a POD account is when there are taxes and loans to be paid out upon death as part of a bigger estate. The executor may find it difficult to settle these expenses using POD accounts.



Finally, naming multiple beneficiaries can complicate the process of dividing the proceeds from complex financial instruments, such as bonds. In some cases, the proceeds are a mix of CDs and other interest-bearing financial instruments. Divvying up their proceeds requires negotiations and compromises among beneficiaries.




What is a payable on death (POD) account?
A bank account or certificate of deposit (CD) with a named beneficiary is called a payable on death (POD) account. People who designate POD accounts do so to avoid probate court when they die.




What is the point of a POD account?
The primary benefit of designating a beneficiary for a bank account such as savings or a CD is to avoid a probate court deciding how to distribute the proceeds to any heirs in the event of the death of the account holder. Probate court incurs costs that must be paid by the estate of the deceased and often dilute the value of any financial assets that otherwise might be passed to beneficiaries.




How do you set up a POD account?
A bank account or CD can be set up as a POD account by completing forms that designate the beneficiary or beneficiaries upon the death of the account owner. This is a simple process that can be accomplished online by completing the beneficiary section that includes the full name, address, and Social Security number of the beneficiary.


   The Bottom Line  

POD account designations are important to set up on any bank accounts that an individual has to avoid the costs and delays involved with probate court. Unfortunately, many people don’t go to the trouble to make beneficiary designations when setting up accounts, and their heirs must incur the cost of probate upon the death of the account holder. This underscores the need for this element of estate planning.
What Is the Payback Period?  

The term payback period refers to the amount of time it takes to recover the cost of an investment. Simply put, it is the length of time an investment reaches a breakeven point.



People and corporations mainly invest their money to get paid back, which is why the payback period is so important. In essence, the shorter payback an investment has, the more attractive it becomes. Determining the payback period is useful for anyone and can be done by dividing the initial investment by the average cash flows.





Key Takeaways

The payback period is the length of time it takes to recover the cost of an investment or the length of time an investor needs to reach a breakeven point.Shorter paybacks mean more attractive investments, while longer payback periods are less desirable.The payback period is calculated by dividing the amount of the investment by the annual cash flow.Account and fund managers use the payback period to determine whether to go through with an investment.One of the downsides of the payback period is that it disregards the time value of money.












Investopedia / Tara Anand


   Understanding the Payback Period  

The payback period is a method commonly used by investors, financial professionals, and corporations to calculate investment returns. It helps determine how long it takes to recover the initial costs associated with an investment. This metric is useful before making any decisions, especially when an investor needs to make a snap judgment about an investment venture.
You can figure out the payback period by using the following formula:









Payback Period


=



Cost of Investment


Average Annual Cash Flow








\begin{aligned}\text{Payback Period}=\frac{\text{Cost of Investment}}{\text{Average Annual Cash Flow}}\end{aligned}


Payback Period=Average Annual Cash FlowCost of Investment​​
The shorter the payback, the more desirable the investment. Conversely, the longer the payback, the less desirable it becomes. For example, if solar panels cost $5,000 to install and the savings are $100 each month, it would take 4.2 years to reach the payback period. In most cases, this is a pretty good payback period as experts say it can take as much as 9- 10 years for residential homeowners in the United States to break even on their investment.
Capital budgeting is a key activity in corporate finance. One of the most important concepts every corporate financial analyst must learn is how to value different investments or operational projects to determine the most profitable project or investment to undertake. One way corporate financial analysts do this is with the payback period.
Although calculating the payback period is useful in financial and capital budgeting, this metric has applications in other industries. It can be used by homeowners and businesses to calculate the return on energy-efficient technologies such as solar panels and insulation, including maintenance and upgrades.






Average cash flows represent the money going into and out of the investment. Inflows are any items that go into the investment, such as deposits, dividends, or earnings. Cash outflows include any fees or charges that are subtracted from the balance.


   Payback Period and Capital Budgeting  

There is one problem with the payback period calculation. Unlike other methods of capital budgeting, the payback period ignores the time value of money (TVM). This is the idea that money is worth more today than the same amount in the future because of the earning potential of the present money.



Most capital budgeting formulas, such as net present value (NPV), internal rate of return (IRR), and discounted cash flow, consider the TVM. So if you pay an investor tomorrow, it must include an opportunity cost. The TVM is a concept that assigns a value to this opportunity cost.



The payback period disregards the time value of money and is determined by counting the number of years it takes to recover the funds invested. For example, if it takes five years to recover the cost of an investment, the payback period is five years.



This period does not account for what happens after payback occurs. Therefore, it ignores an investment's overall profitability. Many managers and investors thus prefer to use NPV as a tool for making investment decisions. The NPV is the difference between the present value of cash coming in and the current value of cash going out over a period of time.






Some analysts favor the payback method for its simplicity. Others like to use it as an additional point of reference in a capital budgeting decision framework.


   Example of Payback Period  

Here's a hypothetical example to show how the payback period works. Assume Company A invests $1 million in a project that is expected to save the company $250,000 each year. If we divide $1 million by $250,000, we arrive at a payback period of four years for this investment. 



Consider another project that costs $200,000 with no associated cash savings that will make the company an incremental $100,000 each year for the next 20 years at $2 million. Clearly, the second project can make the company twice as much money, but how long will it take to pay the investment back?



The answer is found by dividing $200,000 by $100,000, which is two years. The second project will take less time to pay back, and the company's earnings potential is greater. Based solely on the payback period method, the second project is a better investment if the company wants to prioritize recapturing its capital investment as quickly as possible.




What Is a Good Payback Period?
The best payback period is the shortest one possible. Getting repaid or recovering the initial cost of a project or investment should be achieved as quickly as it allows. However, not all projects and investments have the same time horizon, so the shortest possible payback period needs to be nested within the larger context of that time horizon. For example, the payback period on a home improvement project can be decades while the payback period on a construction project may be five years or less.




Is the Payback Period the Same Thing As the Break-Even Point?
While the two terms are related, they are not the same. The breakeven point is the price or value that an investment or project must rise to cover the initial costs or outlay. The payback period refers to how long it takes to reach that breakeven.




Is a Higher Payback Period Better Than a Lower Payback Period?
A higher payback period means it will take longer for a company to cover its initial investment. All else being equal, it's usually better for a company to have a lower payback period as this typically represents a less risky investment. The quicker a company can recoup its initial investment, the less exposure the company has to a potential loss on the endeavor.




What Are Some of the Downsides of Using the Payback Period?
As the equation above shows, the payback period calculation is a simple one. It does not account for the time value of money, the effects of inflation, or the complexity of investments that may have unequal cash flow over time.The discounted payback period is often used to better account for some of the shortcomings, such as using the present value of future cash flows. For this reason, the simple payback period may be favorable, while the discounted payback period might indicate an unfavorable investment.




When Would a Company Use the Payback Period for Capital Budgeting?
The payback period is favored when a company is under liquidity constraints because it can show how long it should take to recover the money laid out for the project. If short-term cash flows are a concern, a short payback period may be more attractive than a longer-term investment that has a higher NPV.


   The Bottom Line  

Payback period is the amount of time it takes to break even on an investment. The appropriate timeframe for an investment will vary depending on the type of project or investment and the expectations of those undertaking it. Investors may use payback in conjunction with return on investment (ROI) to determine whether or not to invest or enter a trade. Corporations and business managers also use the payback period to evaluate the relative favorability of potential projects in conjunction with tools like IRR or NPV.
What Is a Payday Loan?  

A payday loan is a type of short-term borrowing where a lender will extend high-interest credit based on your income. Its principal is typically a portion of your next paycheck. Payday loans charge high-interest rates for short-term, immediate credit. They are also called cash advance loans or check advance loans.





Key Takeaways

Payday loans are short-term, very-high-interest loans available to consumers.Payday loans are typically based on how much you earn, and you usually have to provide a pay stub when applying for one.Payday loans are not available in all states. Sixteen states—Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Maryland, Massachusetts, Montana, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, South Dakota, Vermont, and West Virginia—and the District of Columbia outlaw payday loans of any kind.A number of laws have been put in place over the years to regulate the high fees and interest rates with payday loans.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Using Payday Loans  

Payday loans charge borrowers high levels of interest and do not require any collateral, making them a type of unsecured personal loan. These loans may be considered predatory lending, as they have extremely high interest, don’t consider a borrower’s ability to repay, and have hidden provisions that charge borrowers added fees. As a result, they can create a debt trap for consumers. If you’re considering a payday loan, then you may want to look first at safer personal loan alternatives.


   How Do Payday Loans Work?  

Payday loan providers will normally require you to show proof of your income—usually your pay stubs from your employer. They will then lend you a portion of the money that you will be paid. You will have to pay the loan back within a short time, generally 30 days or less.



Payday lenders take on a lot of risk, because they don’t check your ability to pay back the loan. Because of this, they normally charge very high interest rates for payday loans, and they may also charge high fees if you miss your repayments. This can be dangerous for borrowers because it can mean that you’ll need to borrow more money to cover the cost of the first loan.


   How Do I Get a Payday Loan?  

Payday loan providers are typically small credit merchants with physical stores that allow on-site credit applications and approval. Some payday loan services also may be available through online lenders.



To complete a payday loan application, you must normally provide pay stubs from your employer that show your current level of income. Payday lenders often base their loan principal on a percentage of the borrower’s predicted short-term income. Many also use a borrower’s wages as collateral. Lenders generally do not conduct a full credit check or consider your ability to repay the loan.






In the United States, as of 2023, 16 states and the District of Columbia have banned payday loans.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   What Are Payday Loan Interest Rates?  

Payday lenders charge very high levels of interest: as much as 780% in annual percentage rate (APR), with an average loan running at nearly 400%. Most states have usury laws that limit interest charges to anywhere from 5% to 30%. However, payday lenders fall under exemptions that allow for their high interest.



As these loans qualify for many state lending loopholes, borrowers should be wary. Regulations on these loans are governed by the individual states, with 16 states—Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Maryland, Massachusetts, Montana, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, South Dakota, Vermont, and West Virginia—and the District of Columbia outlawing payday loans of any kind.



In California, for example, a payday lender can charge a 14-day APR of 460% for a $100 loan. Finance charges on these loans also are a significant factor to consider, as the average fee is $15 per $100 of loan.



Although the federal Truth in Lending Act requires payday lenders to disclose their finance charges, many people overlook the costs. Most loans are for 30 days or less and help borrowers to meet short-term liabilities. The loans usually can be rolled over for additional finance charges, and many borrowers—as high as 80% of them—end up as repeat customers.



A number of court cases have been filed against payday lenders, as lending laws have been enacted since the 2008 financial crisis to create a more transparent and fair lending market for consumers. If you’re considering taking out a payday loan, then a personal loan calculator can be a vital tool for determining what kind of interest rate you can afford.


   Are Payday Loans Legal?  

Efforts to regulate payday lenders were proposed in 2016 under the Obama administration and put in place in 2017, when the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), under then-Director Richard Cordray, passed rules to protect consumers from what Cordray referred to as “debt traps.”



The rules included a mandatory underwriting provision requiring lenders to assess a borrower’s ability to repay a loan and still meet everyday living expenses before the loan is made. The rules also required lenders to provide written notice before trying to collect from a borrower’s bank account and further required that after two unsuccessful attempts to debit an account, the lender could not try again without the permission of the borrower. These rules were first proposed in 2016 and under the Biden Administration, the new leadership at the CFPB established stricter rules for payday lending, which became mandatory on June 13, 2022.



In February 2019, the CFPB—then under the Trump Administration and Director Kathleen L. Kraninger—issued proposed rules to revoke the mandatory underwriting provision and delay implementation of the 2017 rules. In June 2019, the CFPB issued a final rule delaying the August 2019 compliance date, and on July 7, 2020, it issued a final rule revoking the mandatory underwriting provision but leaving in place the limitation of repeated attempts by payday lenders to collect from a borrower’s bank account.




Are Payday Loans Fixed or Variable?
Payday loans are usually meant to be paid off in one lump-sum payment when you get your paycheck. Because of this, the interest rate on these loans is fixed. In fact, many payday lenders don’t even express their charges as an interest rate, but they instead charge a fixed flat fee that can be anywhere from $10 to $30 per $100 borrowed.




Is a Payday Loan Secured or Unsecured?
Most payday loans are unsecured. This means that you do not have to give the lender any collateral or borrow against a valuable item as you do in a pawn shop.Instead, the lender will normally ask you for permission to electronically take money from your bank, credit union, or prepaid card account. Alternatively, the lender may ask you to write a check for the repayment amount, which the lender will cash when the loan is due. Under federal law, lenders cannot condition a payday loan on obtaining an authorization from the consumer for “preauthorized” (recurring) electronic fund transfers.




How Long Do Payday Loans Stay in the System?
The records of traditional loans may be kept for six to 10 years by credit bureaus—the companies that calculate credit scores—which in turn may affect your ability to borrow money in the future. Payday lenders do not usually report to the credit bureaus, even in case of overdue repayments. But the payday loan may be filed once it is passed to the collectors after the lender sells the debts.If you repay your payday loan on time, then your credit score shouldn’t be affected. On the other hand, if you default on your loan and your debt is placed in the hands of a collection agency, then you will see a dip in your score.




Can Payday Loan Debt Be Forgiven?
In practice, it’s very rare for payday loan debt to be written off. This is because payday lenders make significant sums from the interest that they charge on these loans.This means that you should try and pay off payday loans as soon as you possibly can. If you can’t pay back a payday loan, the account may be sent to a collection agency, which will pursue you for the money and interest that you owe. This is not only unpleasant but also can add money to your overall debt—and it will damage your credit.




Can You Get a Payday Loan Without a Bank Account?
Yes. Having a bank account isn’t universally required to borrow money, but lenders that don’t require it generally charge high interest rates. This includes many payday lenders. Payday lenders may ask for a bank account, but sometimes a prepaid card account may be enough to qualify.Because these loans cost so much and may be difficult to repay, it’s almost always best to avoid them. If you can’t pay back the loan promptly, fees can add up, leading to a debt trap that’s hard to get out of. Because of this, you should only take out a payday loan if you are absolutely sure that you can pay it back.


   The Bottom Line  

Payday loans are designed to cover short-term expenses, and they can be taken out without collateral or even a bank account. The catch is that these loans charge very high fees and interest rates.



Borrowers should beware of these loans. They may be considered predatory lending, as they have extremely high interest, don’t consider a borrower’s ability to repay, and have hidden provisions that charge borrowers added fees. As a result, they can create a debt trap for consumers. If you’re considering a payday loan, then you may want to first take a look alternative emergency loans for bad credit.
What Is a Payee?  

A payee is a party in an exchange of goods or services who receives payment. The payee is paid by cash, check, or another transfer medium by a payer. The payer receives goods or services in return. The name of the payee is included in the bill of exchange and it usually refers to a natural person or an entity such as a business, trust, or custodian.





Key Takeaways

A payee is a party in an exchange of goods and services who receives payment.The payee provides goods and services to the payer who obtains them through the exchange of value (most often money).Payees may also be more than one party in a transaction and sometimes they are the same party.The Social Security Administration may designate a representative payee if it believes the beneficiary can’t be trusted or is not capable of managing their own funds.


   Understanding a Payee  

In any type of transaction, there will be a party that provides the goods or services and the party that receives the goods or services. To receive goods or services a payer must provide an exchange of value, which is most often money, to the payee.



In a banking situation, the payee must have an active account that is in good standing through which funds can be transmitted by the payer. This is, of course, if the transaction is not done in cash.



In the case of a promissory note, through which one party promises to pay another party a predetermined sum, the party receiving the payment is known as the payee. The party making the payment is known as the payer. For coupon payments from bonds, the party receiving the coupon is the payee and the bond issuer is referred to as the payer.






Payees have the ability to accept or reject amounts being paid to them, based on an agreement or contract.



Investment management transactions frequently have payee accounts that receive payments for the benefit of a client's separate account. For example, in contributing to an individual retirement account (IRA), a customer (e.g., John Smith) may write a check from their checking account to their investment management company, with the payee being the company's name receiving the funds "For the Benefit of" (FBO) the client. This would appear as "XYZ Management FBO John Smith." The funds will ultimately be deposited into John Smith's account as the payee, with XYZ Management being the custodian.



Payees may also be more than one party. This typically happens in electronic transfers when a person withdraws money from the payer's account and splits it into a variety of payee allocations. Depending on the banking institution, these types of transactions may have approval requirements for numbers, percentages, and types of accounts.



Sometimes, the payee and payer may be the same party. This can occur when a person writes checks, makes withdrawals and deposits, or electronically transfers funds from one of their accounts to another.



It is a good practice to ensure that the payer and the payee are in agreement on the amount being transferred between parties to avoid disputes.


   Special Considerations  

Social Security and Supplemental Security Income (SSI) benefit payments are often payable to a “representative payee” rather than the ultimate beneficiary (the person entitled to receive benefits). The Social Security Administration (SSA) may designate a representative payee if it believes the beneficiary can’t manage funds on their own.



The SSA outlines an entire process on how to become a representative payee, what the duties are, and how the process should be managed and reported.



A representative payee has rights and powers similar to that of a conventional payee, but a representative payee must manage money for the benefit of the actual beneficiary. Funds must be spent on (or saved for) only in ways that help the beneficiary. In this aspect, the representative is acting as the fiduciary to the actual payee.



Representative payees exist to take the burden of money management off the beneficiary's plate. An effective representative payee should improve the beneficiary's life. If a representative payee is doing something that works against an ultimate beneficiary, the Social Security Administration should be immediately notified.
What Is a Payment?  

Payment is the transfer of money, goods, or services in exchange for goods and services in acceptable proportions that have been previously agreed upon by all parties involved. A payment can be made in the form of services exchanged, cash, check, wire transfer, credit card, debit card, or cryptocurrencies.





Key Takeaways

Payment is the transfer of money or goods and services in exchange for a product or service.Payments are typically made after the terms have been agreed upon by all parties involved.However, payment may be required before, during (installment payments) or after goods or services have been provided.A payment can be made in the form of cash, check, wire transfer, credit card, or debit card.More modern methods of payment types leverage the Internet and digital platforms. 


   Understanding Payments  

Today's monetary system allows for payments to be made with currency. Currency, which has simplified the means of economic transactions, provides a convenient medium through which payments can be made, and it can also be easily stored.



Before the widespread use of currency and other payment methods, barter payments were used in which one product or service was exchanged for another. For example, if an egg farmer with a large surplus of eggs wanted milk, the farmer would need to find a dairy farmer who would be willing to take eggs as payment for milk.



In this case, if a suitable dairy farmer weren't found in time, not only would the egg farmer not get the milk, but the eggs would spoil, becoming worthless. Currency, on the other hand, maintains its value over time. However, bartering is still practiced today when companies want to exchange services between one another.



Payments can be the transfer of anything of value or benefit to the parties. An invoice or bill typically precedes a payment. Payees usually get to choose how they will accept payment. However, some laws require the payer to accept the country's legal tender up to a prescribed limit. Payment in another currency often involves additional foreign exchange transaction fees, usually around 2–3% of the total payment being made, but could be quite a bit higher depending on the bank or card issuer and country of purchase.






In the U.S., the payer is the party making a payment while the payee is the party receiving the payment.


   Types of Payments  

Payments are made using various methods. Throughout history, these types of payments have changed and evolved, and new payment methods are likely to appear in the future. Here are the most common types of payments used today.


  Credit Cards  

Today, credit cards are widely used for purchases and payments. Credit cards work by offering its user a line of where where an individual can draw credit up to a certain limit. When you attempt to use your credit card, your account information is sent to the merchant bank. The merchant bank then receives authorization from the credit card network to process the transaction.



Many businesses accept credit cards, though many that accept cards charge a fee from the merchant that provides the machine and payments infrastructure as well as their financial institution. This fee is often a percentage of the transaction amount and/or a flat fee for each payment.




Credit Cards

Pros

Help an individual build a credit history that can used to make more major purchases in the future
Reduce risk as it is easier to carry a single plastic card as opposed to cash
Produce revenue opportunities through rewards and airline miles
Delay when an individual actually needs to use personal capital to pay for something



Cons

Create the potential to overextend credit and incur unpayable debt
Charge processing fees by many merchants, making a purchase more expense than other methods
Charge high interest (~15% to ~25% APY) on unpaid balances
Impact a credit report negatively when too many cards are opened





  Debit Cards  

Debit cards may look similar to credit cards, but their underlying mechanism is entirely different. When a debit card is used, funds are immediately withdrawn from an individual's account. Instead of having a line of credit that you can pull from in excess of what you have saved, debit card transactions can be declined if you do not have enough money in your account.



Debit cards share many advantages as credit cards, as the small piece of plastic is easy to carry, widely accepted by many merchants, and has varying levels of fraud protection. However, debit cards often have less promotional opportunities and may result in processing fees if you accidently attempt to overdraw your account.




Debit Cards

Pros

Help individuals transact easier through ATM withdrawals or purchases as many major companies
Typically don't have annual fees or transaction costs as long as you have money in your account
Discourage excess spending by only allowing spending up to account balance
Doesn't charge interest since all payments are facilitated using the spender's money



Cons

Often has limited fraud protection up to certain dollar amounts or time periods
Limit your spending capabilities to your account balance, not allowing for higher amounts of spending for emergency or high need situations
Charge overdraft fees through some banks when you attempt to withdrawn more funds than available in your account
Don't build your credit score as no credit is used





  Cash  

Cash is still used for many businesses, such as the retail industry. Coffee shops and convenience stores, for example, still accept cash payments. Considering the fees associated with debit and credit cards, many retail small businesses prefer cash payments from their customers. Cash has its own disadvantages, as it can be lost, stolen, or destroyed. Businesses dealing in large transactions must often incur additional expenses to pay for related security measures such as secured transit or fraud detection.




Cash

Pros

Eliminate all hidden fees as there are no transaction costs for transacting with cash
Manages spending as you can only spend up to whatever physical bills you have in possession.
Assists with budgeting as you can easily visualize how much money you have to spend
Eliminates the need for access to the Internet or technology



Cons

Does not build your credit score as no credit is used
Incurs ATM fees when withdrawing cash from an ATM
Has higher risk of theft as cash is often owned by the bearer (whomever is in possession of the paper)
Doesn't keep a record of spending like other digital means do





  Mobile Phones  

The contactless payment technology that has emerged in recent years has made payments easier than ever. The credit or debit card machine—called a point of sale terminal (POS)—can read the customer's banking information through the software application that's installed on the mobile device. Once the phone reads the information from the POS terminal, a signal is generated to inform the customer that the payment has been made.



For mobile payments to work, the payer must have a higher-end mobile device with near-field communication (NFC) capability. The user then needs to set up their mobile wallet to contain their existing card information. The bank that issued your credit card often has to approve the new payment platform, and the payee must have capabilities to accept mobile payment.




Mobile Phones

Pros

Allow for very fast transactions (a simple tap with your smartphone and authentication is all that is needed)
Promotes financial security through tokenized mobile payment apps
Further promotes security through biometric authentication requirements on mobile devices
Doesn't require user to carry around additional goods (as long as they normally have their phone on them)



Cons

Still an emerging type of payment, so it is not always accepted.
Only supported by certain types of mobile phones.
Ties together multiple assets; if you lose access to your phone via theft or dead battery, you cannot make payments.
May require payer to use specific app at specific places (i.e. Apple stores may only accept Apple Pay)





  Checks  

Checks have fallen out of favor over the years due to advancements in technology, allowing payments to be electronically submitted. However, there are instances when checks might be helpful, such as when the seller wants a guaranteed payment. A bank cashier's check or a certified check are two types of checks that banks offer to help sellers receive the money owed from the buyer.



Checks are linked to a payer's bank account. Each check contains your bank's routing number (a nine digit code to identify financial institution) as well as your account number. When a check is written, the payee deposits the check, sending the transaction to a clearing unit. The clearing unit makes the appropriate changes to each party's account.




Checks

Pros

Charge low to no fees (outside of the cost of the paper check and a stamp to potentially mail payment)
Provide protection as checks must be signed by the recipient who must often also show ID prior to cashing
Generate proof of payment via paper trail



Cons

May be costly depending on how checkbooks are ordered and securely distributed to the payer
Results in longer processing time as funds aren't transferred until the recipient cashes the check
Are still susceptible to fraud; if depositing bank does not require ID, fraudulent checks only require a single forged signature.





  Electronic Funds Transfers  

Wire transfers and ACH payments (Automatic Clearing House) are typically used for larger or more frequent payments in which a check or credit card wouldn't be appropriate. A payment from a manufacturer to a supplier, for example, would typically be done via wire transfer, particularly if it was an international payment. An ACH payment is often used for direct deposits of payroll for a company's employees.



Though both are transfers of electronic funds, ACHs and wire transfers are different. ACHs only work domestically, and often take one or more business days to fully process. Wires are most often processed same day but have location limitations. In addition, ACHs can often be reversed, while wire payments are permanent once the transaction is initiated.




Electronic Funds Transfers

Pros

May help payees receive funds faster than other methods
Can be set up as an automatic payment for reoccurring transactions
Allow for investigation and dispute for fraudulent transactions



Cons

Require the payer to immediately have the funds ready to be disbursed
May not be recoverable for certain types of EFTs
May result in higher transaction fees or costs





  Cryptocurrency  

Digital currency or tokens are a more modern approach to facilitating transactions. The premise is simple: one person in possession of digital currency can send coins or tokens to any address on a blockchain. Blockchains with smart contract capabilities can interject logic to automatically withdraw or transfer specific amounts based on underlying conditions.



The widespread use of cryptocurrency is still in its infancy stage, especially when compared with other payment systems above. However, cryptocurrency has the advantage in only needing an Internet connection to facilitate a payment; as long both parties have a digital wallet on the same network, payments can be made.




Cryptocurreny

Pros

Do not require use of a bank account; facilitation only requires an Internet connection
Can easily accommodate a payee's preferred digital currency by swapping coins/tokens in a centralized or decentralized exchange
May result in very fast payment processing



Cons

Does not have stable value and may result in loss of capital
Require moderate technical understanding of how to send funds; failure to send correctly may result in loss of funds.
Not as widely of an accepted means of payment compared to other methods





   Special Considerations  

The payee may choose to compromise on debt and accept partial payment in lieu of full settlement of the obligation, or it may offer a discount at their discretion. The payee may also impose a surcharge, for example, as in a late payment fee, or for the use of a certain credit card.



Acceptance of payment by the payee extinguishes a debt or other obligation. A creditor cannot unreasonably refuse to accept a payment, but payment can be refused in some circumstances, such as on a Sunday or outside banking hours. A payee is usually obligated to acknowledge payment by producing a receipt to the payer, which may be regarded as an endorsement on an account as "paid in full."


  Payment Credit Terms and Discounts  

Every company that receives payments must set their payment terms. This payment term dictates when payment is due and whether the company offers a discount for early payment.



The most common form of payment term is called "net 30" where a payment is due 30 days from the receipt of the invoice. A company may set the number of days to whatever they want; however, these terms must often be agreed to in the contract with the payee. In addition, a payer may offer a discount (i.e. 1%) if payment is made within a short period of time (i.e. 10 days). This is written as 1/10, net 30, and the company may offer that discount if it is urgent they receive cash.


  Installment Payments  

In a very basic, transactional contract, a good or service is provided at the same time, immediately proceeding, or immediately following payment. Consider buying an apple at a grocery store; you must pay before you can take it out of the store. Consider a haircut; you must pay immediately after the barber styles your hair.



For more complex agreements that may require delivery of a good or a service to be performed over time, Consider a real estate developer that charges a 4% fee on a building they are constructing. The agreement for the developer fee may call for quarterly payments to the developer based on the percentage of completion of the building. Another example may be keeping a lawyer on retainer; payment must be made on a recurring basis in advance of any services being provided.


  Advance Payments (Prepayments)  

In some contractual situations, one party to the contract may require payment upfront before service has been performed or the good has been delivered. More often for service agreements, the payee that receives payment has an obligation to perform on the contract after payment has been received. In addition, that payee must follow strict accounting guidance that limits their ability to record revenue until the payment is actually earned.




What Does Payment Mean?
Payment is the exchange of something of value as part of an agreement. One party makes payment and receives something else of value, while the other party receives payment in exchange for providing a good or service. The most traditional type of payment was through physical currency, but a majority of payment types now leverage technology.




What Are the Main Types of Payments?
Traditionally, cash, debit cards, credit cards, and checks were the main types of payments. Now, more advanced forms of digital payments are becoming more popular. This includes online payment services, digital currencies, and electronic transfers.




What Is a Bank Payment?
A bank payment is a transfer from one bank account to another. It is a form of digital payment that leverages technology to transfer currency. Instead of relying on transferring physical currency or writing a paper check, a bank payment can be issued for many reoccurring expenses (i.e. utility bills) or sporadic expenses (i.e. grocery bills).




What Is the Best Form of Payment?
There is no single best form of payment, as each typically has its own advantages and disadvantages. More traditional forms for payment like cash don't need technology and are often universally accepted. More modern forms of payment have less risk of theft and may be accompanied by payment rewards.


   The Bottom Line  

The world has always entered into agreements where one party pays another. The idea of trade and contracts will never go away, but the form in which payment is made has and will change over time. Today, instead of trading for cash, there are many different ways to make payment that rely on the Internet, technology, or digital platforms.
What Is Payment-in-Kind (PIK)?  

Payment-in-kind (PIK) is the use of a good or service as payment instead of cash. Payment-in-kind also refers to a financial instrument that pays interest or dividends to investors of bonds, notes, or preferred stock with additional securities or equity instead of cash. Payment-in-kind securities are attractive to companies preferring not to make cash outlays and they are often used in leveraged buyouts.





Key Takeaways

Payment-in-kind (PIK) is the use of a good or service as payment or compensation instead of cash.Payment-in-kind debt instruments call for interest payments that may be paid in cash or non-cash assessments.Though payment-in-kind agreements help a company preserve its cash, the company often faces higher interest assessments that may be added to its principal balance or dilute its shareholder equity. The phrase "payment-in-kind" also applies to the accepting of cash alternatives for work or services.The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) refers to payment-in-kind as bartering income and it requires people who receive income through bartering to report it on their income tax returns.


   Understanding Payment-in-Kind (PIK)  

Payment-in-kind securities are a type of mezzanine financing, where they have characteristics indicative of debt and equities. They tend to pay a relatively high rate of interest but are considered risky. Investors who can afford to take above-average risks, such as private equity investors and hedge fund managers, are most likely to invest in payment-in-kind securities.



Payment-in-kind notes give the issuer a chance to delay making dividend payments in cash and return for the delay, the issuing company typically agrees to offer a higher rate of return on the note.



In most cases, PIK notes compromise a fraction of a company's total outstanding debts, and the financier structures these notes so they mature later than the company's other debts. This allows the company to focus on repaying traditional debts or debts tied to cash dividends more quickly, but it adds additional risk to the financier. To cover their risk, most financiers stipulate an early payment penalty to maximize their potential earnings.



The phrase "payment-in-kind" also applies to accepting cash alternatives for work or services. For example, a farmhand who is given "free" room and board instead of receiving an hourly wage in exchange for helping out on the farm is an example of payment-in-kind.



The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) requires people who receive payment-in-kind income through bartering to report it on their income tax return. For example, if a plumber accepts a side of beef in exchange for services, they should report the fair market value of the beef or their usual fee as income on their income tax return.






The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) refers to payment-in-kind as bartering income.


   Types of Payment-in-Kind  

Payment-in-kind instruments have evolved to take several different forms. Today, payment-in-kind agreements may have flexible terms that depend on prevailing macroeconomic conditions or elections by the borrower. Here are the most common types of payment-in-kind agreements.


  Traditional  

Traditional or true payment-in-kind agreements explicitly layout the arrangement for cash payments and in-kind payments. Loan terms are predefined, and this is the most standard type of payment-in-kind arrangements. In addition to defined dollar amounts, timing expectations are also defined in advance.


  Pay-If-You-Can  

Pay-if-you-can agreements stipulate that interest is supposed to paid in cash at specific intervals or at a designated cadence. If the conditions surrounding interest payments are not satisfied, the borrower may opt to make a payment-in-kind interest payment. This pay-if-you-can assessment is often imposed at a higher interest rate and is only triggered if specific covenants or agreements are achieved (i.e. an insufficient amount of capital was on hand at a specific time).


  Pay-If-You-Like  

Sometimes called toggle notes or pay-if-you-want, pay-if-you-like agreements gives the borrower (though sometimes the issuer) the discretion to elect the type of payment to make. The borrower can often choose between paying in cash, in-kind, or a combination of the two. This structure allows a borrower to continue to pay interest on a bond or defer payments until the bond matures. Should the borrower elect to defer cash payment and instead be assessed payment-in-kind interest, the prevailing interest rate used will be higher.


  Holdco Payment-In-Kind  

Certain debt agreements add in a holding company ("holdco") level in which debt payment are reliant on the operating company's stream of cash. Any debt service or repayments of principal may be contingent on distributions from an operating group that may be subject to conditions of its own. Because the downstream holding company may not be guaranteed credit support from its parent entity, holdco payment-in-kind agreements are often riskier.






Payment-in-kind agreements can include shares of stock or equity discounts. Companies wanted to preserve capital can opt to dilute equity as their form of payment.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Payment-in-Kind  
  Advantages  

Companies enter into payment-in-kind agreements because debt instruments can be used to leverage their existing capital structure. Companies looking to avoid pressuring their cash flow may engage in these agreements. This is especially true for companies with long cash conversion cycles where inventory turnover is slow and capital is often tied up for long periods of time.



Payment-in-kind agreements may also have flexibility in several respects. First, payment-in-kind agreements may give the borrower the option to may payment or in-kind payments. There may also be flexibility in terms of covenants that require one form of payment over the other.


  Disadvantages  

Though flexibility may be appreciated, payment-in-kind agreements may encourage a company to continually defer payments. Companies may also not be motivated to meet financial covenants as failing to achieving certain criteria may defer interest payments (which the company may find favorable).



In-kind payment assessments are often charged at a higher rate of interest than cash payments. Though a company may preserve cash, it will face higher net charges that often demand more company resources though in-kind assessments. For example, certain hybrid agreements may entitle the lender to purchase securities of the company at a discount. Again, though capital is preserve, equity is diluted and management now owns a smaller portion of the company due to the in-kind agreement.




Payment-in-Kind

Advantages

May allow a company to leverage their capital through debt
Gives a company flexibility over the method of payments
May help cash-strapped companies still enter into debt agreements
Gives a company more control over the potential timing of when payments occur



Disadvantages

May incentivize companies to continually defer payment obligations
Often result in higher interest assessments
May dilute ownership if interest is paid in equity or equity discounts





   Example of Payment-in-Kind  

To illustrate how payment-in-kind notes work, imagine a financier offers a struggling company payment-in-kind notes worth $2 million. The notes have a 10% interest rate and they mature at the end of a ten-year period. Each year, the note incurs $200,000 in interest.



However, instead of being required to repay that amount or any principal payments, the interest is added to the debt in kind, meaning more debt. As a result, by the end of the first year, the company owes $2.2 million and that amount continues to grow until the loan matures, at which time the cash is due.




What Is the Original Meaning of Payment-in-Kind (PIK)?
The phrase "payment-in-kind" also applies to accepting cash alternatives for work or services. For example, a farmhand who is given "free" room and board instead of receiving an hourly wage in exchange for helping out on the farm is an example of payment-in-kind. PIK is derived from the bartering system that was used before the advent of money as a means of exchange.




What Is Payment-in-Kind (PIK) Debt?
Payment-in-kind also refers to a financial instrument that pays interest or dividends to its investors. It's a type of mezzanine financing with characteristics indicative of debt and equities. They tend to pay a relatively high rate of interest but are considered risky. PIK notes give the issuer a chance to delay making dividend payments in cash and return for the delay, the issuing company typically agrees to offer a higher rate of return on the note.




Why Would PIK Debt Be Attractive to Some Firms?
PIK securities are attractive to companies preferring not to make cash outlays. In most cases, PIK notes compromise a fraction of a company's total outstanding debts, and the financier structures these notes so they mature later than the company's other debts. This allows the company to focus on repaying traditional debts or debts tied to cash dividends more quickly, PIK debt is often used in leveraged buyouts.




How Is Payment-in-Kind Taxed?
The Internal Revenue Service considers bartered exchanges as income. The fair market value of goods and services are often taxable, as the recipient received a value even though the exchange was not made in cash.


   The Bottom Line  

Some payment-in-kind arrangements call for periodic assessments of interest. Interest on these debt instruments may be made in cash, or a company may be assessed additional debt, equity, or other non-cash charges. Though payment-in-kind agreements favor a company not wanting to part with cash, the company often faces a steeper interest expense through a higher interest rate when opting for the in-kind payment option.
What Is a Payout?  

Payouts refer to the expected financial returns or monetary disbursements from investments or annuities. A payout may be expressed on an overall or periodic basis and as either a percentage of the investment's cost or in a real dollar amount.



A payout can also refer to the period in which an investment or a project is expected to recoup its initial capital investment and become minimally profitable. It is short for "time to payout," "term to payout," or "payout period."





Key Takeaways

Payouts refer to the anticipated financial returns or distributions from investments or annuities.In terms of financial securities, payouts are the amounts received at certain periods, such as monthly for annuity payments.A payout may also refer to the capital budgeting tool used to determine the time it takes for a project to pay for itself.Companies can distribute earnings to investors through the issuance of dividends and share buybacks.The payout ratio is the rate of income paid out to investors in the form of distributions.


   Understanding Payout  

In terms of financial securities, such as annuities and dividends, payouts refer to the amounts received at given points in time. For example, in the case of an annuity, payouts are made to the annuitant at regular intervals, such as monthly or quarterly.


   Payout Ratio as a Measure of Distribution  

There are two main ways that companies can distribute earnings to investors: dividends and share buybacks. With dividends, payouts are made by corporations to their investors and can be in the form of cash dividends or stock dividends. The payout ratio is the percentage rate of income the company pays out to investors in the form of distributions. Some payout ratios include both dividends and share buybacks, while others only include dividends.



For example, a payout ratio of 20% means the company pays out 20% of company distributions. If company A has $10 million in net income, it pays out $2 million to shareholders. Growth companies and newly formed companies tend to have low payout ratios. Investors in these companies rely more on share price appreciation for returns than dividends and share buybacks.



The payout ratio is calculated with the following formula:



Payout ratio = total dividends / net income



The payout ratio can also include share repurchases, in which case the formula is as follows:



Payout ratio = (total dividends + share buybacks) / net income



The cash amount paid out to dividends can be found on the cash flow statement in the section titled cash flows from financing. Dividends and stock repurchases both represent an outflow of cash and are classified as outflows on the cash flow statement.


   Payout and Payout Period as a Capital Budgeting Tool  

The term "payout" may also refer to the capital budgeting tool used to determine the number of years it takes for a project to pay for itself. Projects that take longer are considered less desirable than projects with a shorter period.



The payout, or payback period, is calculated by dividing the initial investment by the cash inflow per period. If company A spends $1 million on a project that saves $500,000 a year for the next five years, the payout period is calculated by dividing $1 million by $500,000. The answer is two, which means the project will pay for itself in two years.
What Is Payout Ratio?  

The payout ratio is a financial metric showing the proportion of earnings a company pays its shareholders in the form of dividends, expressed as a percentage of the company's total earnings. On some occasions, the payout ratio refers to the dividends paid out as a percentage of a company's cash flow. The payout ratio is also known as the dividend payout ratio.





Key Takeaways

The payout ratio, also known as the dividend payout ratio, shows the percentage of a company's earnings paid out as dividends to shareholders.A low payout ratio can signal that a company is reinvesting the bulk of its earnings into expanding operations.A payout ratio over 100% indicates that the company is paying out more in dividends than its earning can support, which some view as an unsustainable practice.












Investopedia / Eliana Rodgers


   Understanding the Payout Ratio  

The payout ratio is a key financial metric used to determine the sustainability of a company’s dividend payment program. It is the amount of dividends paid to shareholders relative to the total net income of a company.



For example, let's assume Company ABC has earnings per share of $1 and pays dividends per share of $0.60. In this scenario, the payout ratio would be 60% (0.6 / 1). Let's further assume that Company XYZ has earnings per share of $2 and dividends per share of $1.50. In this scenario, the payout ratio is 75% (1.5 / 2). Comparatively speaking, Company ABC pays out a smaller percentage of its earnings to shareholders as dividends, giving it a more sustainable payout ratio than Company XYZ.



While the payout ratio is an important metric for determining the sustainability of a company’s dividend payment program, other considerations should likewise be observed. Case in point: in the aforementioned analysis, if Company ABC is a commodity producer and Company XYZ is a regulated utility, the latter may boast greater dividend sustainability, even though the former demonstrates a lower absolute payout ratio.



In essence, there is no single number that defines an ideal payout ratio because the adequacy largely depends on the sector in which a given company operates. Companies in defensive industries, such as utilities, pipelines, and telecommunications, tend to boast stable earnings and cash flows that are able to support high payouts over the long haul.



On the other hand, companies in cyclical industries typically make less reliable payouts, because their profits are vulnerable to macroeconomic fluctuations. In times of economic hardship, people spend less of their incomes on new cars, entertainment, and luxury goods. Consequently, companies in these sectors tend to experience earnings peaks and valleys that fall in line with economic cycles.


   Payout Ratio Formula  
















D


P


R


=




Total


 


dividends




Net


 


income


















where:
















D


P


R


=


Divided payout ratio (or simply payout ratio)







\begin{aligned} &DPR=\dfrac{\textit{Total dividends}}{\textit{Net income}} \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &DPR = \text{Divided payout ratio (or simply payout ratio)}\\ \end{aligned}


​DPR=Net incomeTotal dividends​where:DPR=Divided payout ratio (or simply payout ratio)​



Some companies pay out all their earnings to shareholders, while others dole out just a portion and funnel the remaining assets back into their businesses. The measure of retained earnings is known as the retention ratio. The higher the retention ratio is, the lower the payout ratio is. For example, if a company reports a net income of $100,000 and issues $25,000 in dividends, the payout ratio would be $25,000 / $100,000 = 25%. This implies that the company boasts a 75% retention ratio, meaning it records the remaining $75,000 of its income for the period in its financial statements as retained earnings, which appears in the equity section of the company's balance sheet the following year.



Generally speaking, companies with the best long-term records of dividend payments have stable payout ratios over many years. But a payout ratio greater than 100% suggests a company is paying out more in dividends than its earnings can support and might be cause for concern regarding sustainability.




What Does the Payout Ratio Tell You?
The payout ratio is a key financial metric used to determine the sustainability of a company’s dividend payment program. It is the amount of dividends paid to shareholders relative to the total net income of a company. Generally, the higher the payout ratio, especially if it is over 100%, the more its sustainability is in question. Conversely, a low payout ratio can signal that a company is reinvesting the bulk of its earnings into expanding operations. Historically, companies with the best long-term records of dividend payments have had stable payout ratios over many years.




How Is the Payout Ratio Calculated?
The payout ratio shows the proportion of earnings a company pays its shareholders in the form of dividends, expressed as a percentage of the company's total earnings. The calculation is derived by dividing the total dividends being paid out by the net income generated. Another way to express it is to calculate the dividends per share (DPS) and divide that by the earnings per share (EPS) figure.




Is There an Ideal Payout Ratio?
There is no single number that defines an ideal payout ratio because the adequacy largely depends on the sector in which a given company operates. Companies in defensive industries tend to boast stable earnings and cash flows that are able to support high payouts over the long haul while companies in cyclical industries typically make less reliable payouts, because their profits are vulnerable to macroeconomic fluctuations.
What Is PayPal?  

PayPal is a payment platform with a website and a phone app that enables payments between parties through online money transfers. PayPal customers create an account and connect it to a checking account, a credit card, or both.



Once identification and proof of funds are confirmed, users can send or receive payments online or in a store using PayPal as the go-between. Millions of small and large retailers, online and in the real world, accept PayPal payments.



PayPal also offers credit and debit cards branded with the PayPal name.





Key Takeaways

PayPal is an online payment platform that facilitates payments between individuals and businesses.PayPal was a subsidiary of eBay but was spun off into a separate company in 2015.In addition to online payments, PayPal offers a debit card for payments, credit card readers for use in businesses, and lines of credit.PayPal is considered a very secure method of sending payments online.


   How Does PayPal Work?  

PayPal offers payment services for consumers and for merchants who accept Paypal. Merchants use a PayPal card reader in brick-and-mortar stores or enable Paypal as a payment option on their websites.



Consumers can pay invoices and transfer money with relative ease. Cash can be transferred to any email address or phone number, whether or not the recipient has a PayPal account.



Users need an email address to sign up for an account and must provide a credit card, debit card, or bank account to complete the setup. PayPal verifies the information to make sure the person setting up the account is the rightful owner before the service can be used.



Shoppers can choose the PayPal option to complete purchases online if the retailer has the service. Transactions are completed within minutes and the company promises that transfers are available for payment or withdrawal to a bank account immediately.


  PayPal for Business  

PayPal offers businesses a range of solutions for their day-to-day operations. This includes payment portals for online and in-person transactions, business management services, and credit and financing options. Business owners must also provide an email address in order to create an account.



PayPal attempts to make online purchases safer by providing a form of payment that does not require the payor or payee to disclose credit card or bank account numbers. Therefore, the money is secure, privacy is protected, and, since the customer base is so large, transactions are faster than traditional methods.


   PayPal Fees  

PayPal makes much of its revenue from fees it charges merchants, rather than from the consumers who pay with it.



There is no fee for using PayPal to pay for a transaction if you use a PayPal balance or your linked bank account and the payment is in your home currency. There is no fee if you send cash to a friend or relative rather than a business, again in your home currency. There's no fee for transferring money to and from PayPal and your bank account.



Other transactions incur fees:



There's a 4% currency conversion fee for most transactions that involve conversion.A PayPal transaction that uses your linked credit card incurs a fee of 2,9% plus a fixed fee that varies by country. It is 0.30 cents in the U.S. The trick here is to make sure your PayPal account defaults to your checking account, not to your credit card.



The PayPal-branded credit and debit cards have their own fee structures, which seem fairly typical for the industry.



Other fees apply to less routine transactions such as buying and selling cryptocurrencies and sending charitable donations.


   PayPal vs. Its Competitors  

PayPal now holds a 32.3% share of the global market for online payment services. That still leaves it trailing the combined numbers of Stripe and Stripe Connect, which jointly have a market share surpassing 40%. The Dutch-owned Adyen comes in third at 11.6%. All other competitors are in single digits, including Square, Braintree, and Venmo.



That doesn't necessarily mean they're better, but it may mean that the PayPal and Stripe payment options are easier to find in stores and online.


  About Stripe  

Stripe is a payments platform based in Dublin, Ireland.



Stripe Connect is a newer Stripe offshoot. This version is designed to serve the needs of small online businesses, especially those who want to go global. It allows these businesses to accept dozens of credit cards in 135 currencies, using Stripe as a go-between.



A side-by-side comparison of Stripe and PayPal by Forbes concludes that their services and fees are comparable though PayPal may be better and easier for small merchants while Stripe can be more easily customized by merchants.


   Special Considerations  

Although PayPal is not a bank, it is subject to many of the same consumer protection regulations by which banks are governed.



For example, the extent of your liability for an unauthorized transaction is determined by how promptly you notify the bank that unauthorized activity has occurred in your account. Notifying PayPal quickly when you have concerns will help to limit your liability, and it is recommended that PayPal users check their accounts regularly.


   History of PayPal  

An early version of PayPal as we know was launched in the late 1990s as a payments system for Palm Pilot users by a software company called Confinity. The company later merged with X.com—an online banking company—and officially took the PayPal name in 2000.



PayPal broke into the mainstream as the preferred payment mechanism for eBay buyers and sellers. The auction site decided to acquire PayPal in 2002 and made it the site's official payment service while working to expand its reach.



In 2015, PayPal was spun off as an independent company. Company shares trade on the Nasdaq under the ticker symbol PYPL.



Throughout its history, PayPal has acquired other companies that serve different parts of the financial transaction, digital money transfer, and payments markets. Some of these acquisitions brought technology enhancements and additional features that were incorporated into the PayPal platform as the companies were absorbed.



PayPal purchased BrainTree, owner of the rival service Venmo, in 2013.



PayPal's brands now include Xoom, Zettle, Hyperwallet, Honey, Happy Returns by PayPal, Chargehound, Paidy, and Simility.






PayPal charges users no fee for a regular transfer but adds a fee for "instant" transfers.




Is PayPal a Good Choice for a Small Business?
PayPal is one of a number of competitors for small business clients, but it's a big one.Its advantages to a merchant include great ease of use and access to a range of additional features that can help you run a small business.Its disadvantages include relatively high merchant fees compared to some credit card payment services. (Remember, some basic services are free to users, so merchants bear the burden.)




Is PayPal a Good Choice for a Consumer?
If you're shopping online in the U.S., PayPal is likely to be the only choice at the checkout other than directly using a credit or debit card for payment. It can be your best option moneywise since you can use PayPal to deduct the payment from your checking account and skip any and all fees. (Just be sure to use your checking account as your default payment option on PayPal or you'll pay even more fees to use a stored credit card.)If you're shopping in the real world, you have many payment apps to choose from. Best to compare payment apps for the one that suits you best.




Is PayPal Safe to Use?
PayPal uses end-to-end encryption and users have the option to enable two-factor authentication to increase the security of their transactions. It's as safe as electronic transactions get these days.


   The Bottom Line  

PayPal is a big player in the crowded field of payment apps for use online and off.



Its basic services, like paying for goods using your checking account and transferring money, are free to the user. Other services come with fees, like PayPal credit and debit cards and transactions that involve a currency conversion. The fees are industry-standard.



Merchants who accept PayPal pay transaction fees for the service. They also get access to a range of related small business services offered by PayPal.



PayPal is the dominant payment service for online transactions. Small business owners should take a look at competitor reviews when considering which of the many available payment apps they should adopt.
What Is Payroll?  

Payroll is the compensation a business must pay to its employees for a set period or on a given date. It is usually managed by the accounting or human resources department of a company. Small-business payrolls may be handled directly by the owner or an associate.



Increasingly, payroll is outsourced to specialized firms that handle paycheck processing, employee benefits, insurance, and accounting tasks, such as tax withholding. Many payroll fintech firms, such as Atomic, Bitwage, Finch, Pinwheel, and Wagestream, are leveraging technology to simplify payroll processes. These solutions pay employees with greater convenience and speed and provide digital payroll-related documents with innovative technology-enabled services required by the gig and outsourcing economy.



Payroll can also refer to the list of a company's employees and the amount of compensation due to each of them. Payroll is a major expense for most businesses and is almost always deductible, meaning the expense can be deducted from gross income lowering the company's taxable income. Payroll can differ from one pay period to another because of overtime, sick pay, and other variables.





Key Takeaways

Payroll is the compensation a business must pay to its employees for a set period and on a given date.The payroll process can include tracking hours worked for employees, calculating pay, and distributing payments via direct deposit or check.However, companies must also perform accounting and record-keeping, and set aside funds for Medicare, Social Security, and unemployment taxes.Companies can use professional services and outsource their payroll or use cloud-based software if they do not want to do it themselves.Calculating payroll involves many components and can be complex.


   Understanding Payroll  

Payroll is the process of paying a company's employees, which includes tracking hours worked, calculating employees' pay, and distributing payments via direct deposit to employee bank accounts or by check. However, companies must also perform accounting functions to record payroll, taxes withheld, bonuses, overtime pay, sick time, and vacation pay. Companies must put aside and record the amount to be paid to the government for Medicare, Social Security, and unemployment taxes.



Many companies use software solutions to manage their payroll. The employee inputs their hours through an API, and their pay is processed and deposited into their bank accounts.



Many medium- and large-size companies outsource payroll services to streamline the process. Employers track the number of hours each employee works and relay this information to the payroll service. On payday, the payroll service calculates the gross amount the employee is owed based on the number of hours or weeks worked during the pay period and the pay rate. The service deducts taxes and other withholdings from earnings and then pays the employees.


   Special Considerations  

Employers with gross sales of $500,000 or more per year are subject to the requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) passed in 1938. This is a U.S. law that protects workers from certain unfair pay practices. The FLSA sets out various labor regulations, including minimum wages, requirements for overtime pay, and limitations on child labor. For example, FLSA rules specify when workers are considered on the clock and when they should be paid overtime.



The law requires overtime—hours worked in excess of 40 hours per week—to be paid at one-and-a-half times the regular hourly rate. Some employees are exempt from the FLSA, and the Act does not apply to independent contractors or volunteers because they are not considered employees.



Some hourly workers are not covered by the FLSA but are subject to other regulations. For example, railroad workers are governed by the Railway Labor Act, and truck drivers fall under the purview of the Motor Carriers Act.



The FLSA also sets out how to treat jobs that are primarily compensated by tipping. In the case of tipped service workers, the employer must pay the minimum wage to the employee unless they regularly receive more than $30 per month from gratuities.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Using Professional Payroll Services  

One major benefit of payroll services is their ability to produce a variety of reports that simplify accounting procedures and help companies ensure they are in compliance with legal and tax filing requirements. The payroll service may also maintain a record of how much vacation or personal time employees have used.



With respect to disadvantages, when companies outsource their payroll system, they must rely on individuals outside the business for accurate accounting. In the event of an error, the company's on-site personnel must deal with upset employees. Companies might also face tax penalties for errors made by the payroll service.



Another disadvantage is that payroll services are more expensive than running payroll in-house. The services may charge a set monthly fee or offer different payment structures for varying tiers of service. Because of their cost, payroll services may not be the best option for small companies with tight operating budgets.





Pros of Professional Payroll Services

Access to a variety of reportsSimplified accounting and tax compliance
Record of vacation time and personal time taken by employees



Cons of Professional Payroll Services

Individuals outside the business are privy to financial and tax information.Internal staff must still help employees with payroll problems.
The company may face tax penalties due to errors by the payroll service.
Payroll services can be expensive, which is a concern for small businesses.









As a business grows, its accounting needs become more complex. Larger firms may need to invest in a custom enterprise resource planning  (ERP) system for their accounting and payroll functions.


   Payroll Software Programs  

In lieu of using specialized payroll services, some companies opt to rely on payroll software programs. Once the company purchases the software, there are no additional monthly fees. Software programs usually include printable tax forms and withholding tables.



In addition to financial savings, internal payroll systems help companies keep confidential financial information private. However, software programs can be time-consuming, which can pose a problem for small companies with few staff.



Small business owners benefit from accounting software because it helps them track accounts receivable and accounts payable, gauge their profitability, and prepare for tax season. A small business is one that can use out-of-the-box software without requiring extensive customizations. As a business grows, its accounting needs become more complex, and a custom enterprise resource planning (ERP) system is often needed.



There are many different types of cloud-based accounting software available for small businesses. The type of industry and number of employees are two factors that will dictate which accounting software is appropriate. For example, a freelancer would not need the same features in a piece of accounting software as a restaurant owner.






Investopedia conducted a review of payroll management and accounting software for small businesses and evaluated their cost, ease of use, features, integrations, and scalability. QuickBooks Online was considered the best overall software, while Xero was considered the best for micro-business owners. FreshBooks was best for service-based businesses, and QuickBooks Self-Employed was best for part-time freelancers, but Wave was the best free software.


   How to Calculate Payroll Taxes  

How you calculate payroll taxes will depend on your business and your local laws. However, here are some general guidelines provided by QuickBooks. The first step is to calculate your employees' gross pay.


  1. Calculate Your Employees' Gross Pay  

You can determine an employee’s gross pay using their pay rate and your scheduled pay periods. Most businesses will pay employees weekly, every two weeks, or monthly. To calculate an hourly employee’s gross pay, multiply their hours worked in the pay period by their hourly pay rate. The formula is as follows:



Hourly rate x total hours worked in the pay period = gross pay



To calculate a salaried employee’s gross pay, divide their annual salary by the number of pay periods in the year. The formula is as follows:



Yearly salary / number of pay periods in year = gross pay



For example. An employee makes $50,000 a year. Their company pays employees every two weeks for a total of 26 pay periods. Therefore, the employee’s gross pay is $1,923.08.


  2. Take Out Pre-Tax Deductions  

After determining gross pay, you’ll need to factor out deductions. These are tax deductions, but other pre-tax deductions may also apply. Pre-tax deductions include:



401(k) and some retirement plans
Health insurance plans
Health Savings Account (HSA) or Flexible Spending Account (FSA) contributions
Some life insurance plans


  3. Deduct Taxes (FICA, Unemployment, and Income Taxes)  

Once you have taken out pre-tax deductions, the remaining pay is taxed. The FICA tax rate is 7.65%—1.45% for Medicare and 6.2% for Social Security taxes. Other tax rates will be determined by Federal, state, or local laws and your employee’s W-4.



Calculate federal income taxes using IRS tax tables. Most often, you will pay federal taxes when you pay Social Security and Medicare taxes. Report all payments on IRS Form 941.



Deduct the 7.65% FICA tax from the employee’s gross pay. You, as the employer, must match each employee’s contribution. The business submits both the employee’s and the company’s contributions to Social Security and Medicare.



For example, an employee earns $1,923 in gross pay for the latest pay period. To calculate the employee’s Social Security tax contribution, multiply $1,923 by .062 to get $119.26. To calculate the employee’s Medicare tax contribution, multiply $1,923 by .0145 to get $27.88. In total, the employee’s FICA tax contribution is $147.14 for the pay period, which the employer must match. In this case, the employer must pay $294.28 to the IRS. Half is a direct expense to the company, and the other half is withheld from the employee’s paycheck.



Employers don’t match income tax deductions, but they pay federal unemployment taxes. The IRS's Income Withholding Assistant will help you determine how much federal income taxes your employees owe.


  4. Any Voluntary Deductions Must Be Taken From the Remaining Wages  

These may include:



Roth 401(k) contributions
Life insurance plans
Long-term disability insurance plans
Wage garnishments
Union dues



After all taxes and deductions, the remaining amount is how much the employee takes home on payday.




What Are Payroll Taxes?
Payroll taxes include Social Security, which takes out 6.2% of your income up to $132,900.  Payroll taxes also pay for Medicare, which takes out 1.45% of your income. Employers also pay payroll taxes. They pay 6.2% of your income, so the government gets 12.4% of your total income, and your employer pays 1.45% of your income toward Medicare.




What Is a Payroll Tax Cut?
A payroll tax cut would mean that less Social Security and Medicare taxes are withheld and taken out of paychecks. The idea is that workers and businesses would take home a little extra with each paycheck and that would encourage them to spend more and stimulate the economy. 




What Is a Payroll Tax Holiday?
A payroll tax holiday is a deferral of payroll tax collection until a later date, at which point those taxes would become due. A payroll tax deferral is intended to provide some temporary financial relief to workers by temporarily boosting their take-home pay.




Is Payroll Part of HR or Accounting?
While payroll is essentially an accounting practice, it deals with paying the people inside of a company, which puts it under the domain of human resources (HR). Thus, most companies have HR manage payroll and related issues. However, some companies may house payroll inside of the finance or accounting department, and some larger companies may even carve out a distinct payroll office.




What Is the Difference Between Payroll and Salary?
This is a matter of perspective: For an employee, the money received from a company as compensation often comes in the form of wages or salary (as well as bonuses, stock options, commissions, etc.). For a firm, these payments are an expense that is recorded as payroll.


   The Bottom Line  

Processing payroll is a complex and time-consuming endeavor that requires adherence to strict federal and state rules and regulations. It requires extensive record-keeping and attention to detail. Small businesses often handle their own payroll using cloud-based software. Other companies choose to outsource their payroll functions or to invest in an integrated ERP system that manages the overall accounting and payroll.
What Is a Payroll Tax?  

A payroll tax includes the taxes employees and employers pay on wages, tips, and salaries. For employees, taxes are withheld from their paychecks and paid to the government by the employer. These taxes include federal, state, and local income taxes, and the employee's share of Social Security and Medicare taxes (FICA). Taxes that employers must pay include their share of FICA as well as federal and state unemployment taxes.





Key Takeaways

Payroll taxes are withheld from every employee's salary and remitted to the federal government.In the U.S., payroll taxes are used to fund Social Security and Medicare.Both employers and employees have to pay an equivalent share of Social Security and Medicare taxes.Payroll taxes are used to pay for government spending, specific programs, Social Security, Medicare, local infrastructure, and more.


   Understanding Payroll Taxes  

Federal payroll taxes cover Social Security and Medicare contributions, which constitute the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) tax in the United States. These are labeled as MedFICA and FICA on pay stubs. Federal income tax, which is also withheld from employee paychecks, goes into the general fund of the U.S. Treasury.



Most states and some cities and counties impose income taxes as well, and these amounts are paid directly to their coffers. In addition, employers, but not employees, also pay federal unemployment taxes for each of their employees.



In addition to income taxes, payroll taxes are collected by federal authorities and some state governments in many countries, including the U.S. These payroll tax deductions are itemized on an employee's pay stub. The itemized list notes how much is withheld for federal, state, and municipal income taxes, as well as the amounts collected for Medicare and Social Security payments.



Governments use revenues from payroll taxes to fund specific programs, including Social Security, healthcare, and workers' compensation. Local governments may collect a small payroll tax to maintain and improve local infrastructure and services, including first responders, road maintenance, and parks.


   Tax Amounts  

The premise of Social Security and Medicare is that you pay into them during your working years in order to qualify to withdraw these funds after retiring or under certain medical circumstances. An employee pays 7.65% for Medicare and Social Security (6.2% for Social Security and 1.45% for Medicare). An employer also pays the same tax of 7.65% for an employee, for a total of 15.3%.



For Social Security, there is an income cap over which no tax for Social Security is levied. For 2022, the income cap was $147,000 ($160,200 in 2023), making the FICA portion of the U.S. payroll tax a regressive tax. There is no income limit on Medicare, but anyone who earns more than $200,000 pays another 0.9% for Medicare.


   Unemployment Taxes  

Employers bear the primary responsibility for funding unemployment insurance. If they lay off employees, those employees are entitled to unemployment benefits. The rate of unemployment insurance the employer will pay varies by industry, state, and federal fees. Some states require employees to contribute to unemployment and disability insurance.


   Self-Employment Taxes  

Self-employed individuals, including contractors, freelance writers, musicians, and small business owners, must remit payroll taxes, sometimes referred to as self-employment taxes.



Unlike most salaried workers, self-employed people don't have employers to remit payroll taxes on their behalf. As a result, they must cover both the employer and employee portions of the tax on their own.



The self-employment tax rate is 15.3%, including a 12.4% contribution to Social Security—old-age, survivors, and disability insurance. The other portion of the tax is a 2.9% payment to Medicare, with another 0.9% surtax for Medicare on earnings that exceed $200,000.


   Social Security Payroll Tax  

Funds paid to Social Security taxes go into two trust funds: the Old-Age and Survivors Insurance (OASI) Trust Fund, which pays retirement and survivor benefits, and the Disability Insurance Trust Fund, for disability benefits. The Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Commissioner of Social Security, and two public trustees manage these trust funds.



The Social Security tax is 6.2%, paid by both the employee and the employer, for a total of 12.4%. Income above $147,000 ($160,200 in 2023) is not taxed for Social Security.



President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed the Social Security Act into law on Aug. 14, 1935, to provide a safety net for the disabled and retirees. When the program was conceived, high-wage earners were exempt from paying into the fund and receiving Social Security benefits; however, the U.S. Congress replaced the exemption with a cap that usually increases at the same rate as wages.


   Medicare Payroll Tax  

As noted above, payroll taxes also go toward Medicare. These payroll deductions go into one of two separate trust funds: the Hospital Insurance Trust Fund. The Hospital Insurance Trust Fund pays for Medicare Part A and the associated administration fees. Part A assists in covering hospital care, skilled nursing inpatient care, and, in some cases, home care.



Most people don't pay a premium for Part A (hospital insurance) since they likely paid into the program during their working years through the payroll tax. The tax for Medicare is 1.45% for the employer and 1.45% for the employee, for a total Medicare tax of 2.9%. For individuals that earn over $200,000, an additional 0.9% is charged. This additional tax only applies to the employee, not the employer.



The other Medicare trust fund is the Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund, which assists in paying for Medicare Parts B and D and other Medicare program administration costs. Part B covers laboratory tests and screenings, outpatient care, x-rays, ambulance service, and many additional costs. Part D helps with prescription drugs. This trust fund is funded through the authorization of congress that allocates funds, the premiums from people who are enrolled in Part B and D, and other sources, such as interest earned on the fund's investments.


   Payroll Taxes vs. Income Taxes  

There is a distinction between a payroll tax and an income tax, although both are deducted from paychecks. Payroll taxes are used to fund specific programs. Income taxes go into the general funds at the U.S. Treasury.



Everyone pays a flat payroll tax rate up to a yearly cap. Income taxes, however, are progressive. Rates vary based on an individual's earnings.



State income tax, if any, goes into the state's treasury.




What Makes Up Payroll Taxes?
Payroll taxes include all of the taxes on an individual's salary, wage, bonus, commission, and tips. These taxes are used to pay for Social Security, Medicare, unemployment, government programs, and local infrastructure.




What Is the FICA Tax?
The FICA tax stands for Federal Insurance Contributions Act and is used to pay for Social Security and Medicare. The total tax is 15.3%, split evenly between an employer and an employee, meaning each pays a tax of 7.65%. This is made up of the Social Security tax (6.2%) and the Medicare tax (1.45%).




Does Everyone Pay a Payroll Tax?
Yes, for the most part, everyone pays a payroll tax, which is automatically deducted from one's paycheck. The Social Security and Medicare taxes are regressive (everyone pays the same amount), while income tax is progressive (those that make more are taxed at a higher rate).


   The Bottom Line  

Payroll taxes are the taxes employees and employers pay on wages, tips, and salaries. These taxes include federal, state, and local taxes, as well as FICA taxes, which are taxes for Social Security and Medicare. These taxes are all taken out of an employee's wages.



These taxes are used for wide-ranging areas, including Social Security, healthcare, defense spending, government salaries, and workers' compensation. Local governments may collect a small payroll tax to maintain and improve local infrastructure and services, including first responders, road maintenance, and parks.
What Is the P/E 10 Ratio?  

The P/E 10 ratio is a valuation measure generally applied to broad equity indices that use real per-share earnings over 10 years. The P/E 10 ratio also uses smoothed real earnings to eliminate the fluctuations in net income caused by variations in profit margins over a typical business cycle. The P/E 10 ratio is also known as the cyclically adjusted price-to-earnings (CAPE) ratio or the Shiller PE ratio.





Key Takeaways:

The P/E 10 ratio is a valuation measure for equities that uses real per-share earnings over 10 years.The P/E 10 ratio also uses smoothed real earnings to eliminate net income fluctuations.The P/E 10 ratio is also known as the cyclically adjusted price-to-earnings (CAPE) ratio or the Shiller PE ratio.


   Understanding the P/E 10 Ratio  

The ratio was popularized by Yale University professor Robert Shiller, author of the bestseller "Irrational Exuberance," who won the Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences in 2013.﻿﻿ Shiller attracted attention after he warned that the frenetic U.S. stock market rally of the late-1990s would turn out to be a bubble.



The P/E 10 ratio is based on the work of renowned investors Benjamin Graham and David Dodd in their legendary 1934 investment tome "Security Analysis." The investors attributed illogical P/E ratios to temporary and sometimes extreme fluctuations in the business cycle. To smooth a firm's earnings over a period, Graham and Dodd recommended using a multi-year average of earnings per share (EPS)—such as five, seven, or 10 years—when computing P/E ratios.﻿﻿


   How to Calculate the P/E 10 Ratio  

The P/E 10 ratio is calculated as follows: take the annual EPS of an equity index, such as the S&P 500, for the past 10 years. Adjust these earnings for inflation using the consumer price index (CPI)—that is, adjust past earnings to today's dollars. Take the average of these real EPS figures over the 10 years. Divide the current level of the S&P 500 by the 10-year average EPS number to get the P/E 10 ratio or CAPE ratio.



The P/E 10 ratio varies a great deal over time. According to data first presented in "Irrational Exuberance" (which was released in March 2000, coinciding with the peak of the dotcom boom), and updated to cover the period 1881 to August 2020, the ratio has varied from a low of 4.78 in December 1920 to a high of 44.20 in December 1999. As of August 2020, the historic P/E 10 average was 17.1.﻿﻿



Using market data from both estimated (1881 to 1956) and actual (1957 onward) earnings reports from the S&P index, Shiller and John Campbell found that the lower the CAPE, the higher the investors' likely return from equities over the following 20 years.


  Shortfalls of the P/E 10 Ratio  

A criticism of the P/E 10 ratio is that it is not always accurate in signaling market tops or bottoms. For example, an article in the September 2011 issue of the American Association of Individual Investors Journal noted that the CAPE ratio for the S&P 500 was 23.35 in July 2011.﻿﻿



Comparing this ratio to the long-term CAPE average of 16.41 would suggest that the index was more than 40% overvalued at that point. The article suggested that the CAPE ratio provided an overly bearish view of the market since conventional valuation measures like the P/E showed the S&P 500 trading at a multiple of 16.17 (based on reported earnings) or 14.84 (based on operating earnings).﻿﻿ Although the S&P 500 did plunge 16% in one month from mid-July to mid-August 2011, the index subsequently rose more than 35% from July 2011 to new highs by November 2013.﻿﻿
What Is a Peer Group?  

The term peer group refers to a group of individuals or companies that share similar characteristics with one another. These characteristics may be age, education, ethnic background, size, industry, or sector. Peer groups are known for their influential nature as they are able to shape the decisions of members of the group. As such, peer groups often contain hierarchies, with clear leaders who sit at the top. Peer groups are often used in analysis in a number of academic and professional fields.





Key Takeaways

A peer group consists of individuals or organizations that share similar characteristics.Peer groups are known for their influential nature as they're able to shape the decisions of other group members.These groups often contain hierarchies with clear leaders who sit at the top.Peer groups are commonly used for analysis in a number of fields, including financing, marketing, and sociology.Peer group analysis in investing involves the use of financial data to compare similar companies to one another. 


   Understanding Peer Groups  

As noted above, peer groups contain a number of people or other entities that share one or more similar characteristics. Peer groups allow individuals to be grouped together by certain defining features, such as age, income, education, race, and/or gender. Qualities among members for corporate peer groups include size, industry, sector, and/or financial position.



Peer groups are used in a number of different fields, such as finance and marketing, as well as sociology. They are known for the influence they have among group members. They consist of hierarchies, which place one or a few individual group members at the top. These members can often shape the actions and decisions of the other group members.



Peer group analysis or peer comparison involves an apples-to-apples comparison. This means the constituents of the peer group should be more or less similar to one another. Comparisons allow professionals to identify trends and anomalies in behavior and outcomes, and give them an opportunity to figure out efficiencies and opportunities:



If not immediately obvious, peer groups are sometimes identified by a given company in its 10-K filing and almost always in its proxy filing, though the latter can be more expansive in terms of specific business sectors and is used to set executive compensation plans.






Insurance companies compile peer groups to underwrite life or health insurance policies on certain demographics, such as age-related groups or those who do or don't smoke.


   Using Peer Groups  

Peer comparison is one of the most widely used and accepted methods of equity analysis used by professional analysts, individual investors, and professionals.


  Investment Research  

Because companies in a peer group share similar traits, they lend themselves to relative value analysis. Peer group analysis establishes a valuation for stocks in investment research, as long as the group consists of companies similar to the one being researched. This is especially key when it comes to business areas and market capitalization. Investors can use this analysis to spot valuation anomalies for certain stocks.



For example, a stock trading at an earnings multiple of 15x (compared with a 10x multiple for its peer group) may be considered overvalued. Investors can uncover reasons for the higher earnings multiple and ultimately determine that it is deserved.



Relative valuation among peers in a group can be efficient and effective, quickly showing which stocks may be overvalued, and which might make good additions to a portfolio. While there are other methods to determine when a stock is worth buying, such as discounted cash flow or technical analysis, peer comparison analysis remains a key tool for uncovering undervalued stocks.



Because the data necessary to conduct the analysis is generally public and readily accessible on financial websites, it is easy for anybody to begin employing this method of analysis in order to identify opportunities.






Peer group comparisons are also called comparables or comps.


  Marketing  

Peer groups are important in advertising and marketing, especially in the age of social media. Leaders in the group or those who are at the top of the hierarchical ladder are commonly known as influencers. Professionals study peer groups to show how they influence buying patterns and consumer trends for advertising and product development purposes.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Peer Groups  

Peer group analysis helps shape many decisions in the financial and investment worlds. There are a number of different benefits to using peer groups, especially in investment analysis. But just like any other analytical tool, there are drawbacks to this form of analysis as well. We've listed some of the most common ones below.


  Advantages  

One of the most obvious benefits of using peer group analysis is that it helps investors and analysts uncover undervalued stocks. This is often accomplished by analyzing different metrics, including leverage and profitability among others. Doing so allows the individual to determine companies that should carry higher-than-average valuations. A stock may be considered a buying opportunity if the current valuation is lower than what seems reasonable.



Investors and professionals don't have to go far to get the information they need to perform peer group analysis. Data is easily available, either on company websites or through filings done with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). This means the individual doesn't need to do exhaustive research.



Conducting peer comparisons give investors a chance to determine certain anomalies and trends that arise with different companies and in the market in general.


  Disadvantages  

Doing a peer comparison isn't as easy as it seems. That's because quantitative factors aren't the only considerations. In fact, there are qualitative issues that must be taken into account. This means that the analysis can be fairly subjective.



Peer groups often come with certain biases, which can sway an analyst or investor's analysis. For example, some groups come with survivorship bias. This means that the peer group may not contain any companies that underperform. This type of analysis, therefore, doesn't take companies that have gone under or phased out of the group into account.



There may not be very many companies in the peer group. When this is the case, peer comparison becomes ineffective. In order for it to work, there needs to get a sizeable group of companies that can be compared to one another.





Pros

Helps uncover buying opportunities for undervalued securities
Accessing data is easily available for comparison
Allows anomalies and trends to be identified



Cons

May be subjective because some investors also consider qualitative factors into account
Survivorship bias doesn't account for members that are phased out of the group
May not be enough companies in the group





   Example of a Peer Group  

Peer groups refer to companies that are in the same industry or sector. These are competitors that are roughly the same size. Peer groups can be found in analyst research reports or an individual company's financial statements.



Lockheed Martin is an aerospace, defense, and security company headquartered in Maryland. According to the company's 2017 proxy statement, its peer group consists of other similar companies as its peers, including General Dynamics, Raytheon, and Northrup Grumman. It also lists Caterpillar, UPS, and 3M.


   Peer Group FAQs  
  What Are the Types of Peer Groups?  

There are several different types of peer groups, including social groups (cliques, sports teams, etc). In investing and finance, peers may be grouped by industry or sector (consumer staples, retail, telecoms), size (usually by market cap), financial health (profitability, capital structure), or business factors (business models, location, seasonality).


  What Is Peer Group Analysis?  

Peer group analysis is a process involving the comparison of entities that share similar characteristics. It is an apples-to-apples comparison of subjects that are fairly similar to one another. This kind of analysis allows for the identification of trends and anomalies in behavior and outcomes.


  What Is a Peer Group Index?  

A peer group index is one that groups individual companies together into a single, benchmark index. For instance, the S&P 500 can be considered a peer group index. This index is comprised of 500 of the largest public companies in the United States and is generally considered the best gauge of U.S. large-cap equities.


  How Can You Use a Peer Group Average in Investing?  

A peer group average is considered one of the most effective and efficient ways to determine the valuation of a security. Put simply, investors can use certain metrics drawn from corporate financial statements to assess a certain company's stock price compared to its peers.


  Why Are Firms Classified Into Peer Groups for Ratio Analysis?  

Companies are grouped into peer groups for ratio analysis as part of fundamental analysis. It allows researchers to determine individual company liquidity, efficiencies, as well as profitability. This is done by examining each company's past and current financial statements and comparing them with one another. Some of the most popular ratios include price-to-earnings (P/E), price-to-book, and price-to-dividend ratios.


   The Bottom Line  

Peer groups consist of similar entities that share one or more characteristics in common. They serve a very important purpose in many different fields of study. They can be one of the most useful tools when it comes to equity analysis for investors and financial professionals. Anyone can perform peer group comparisons using information that is widely available on corporate websites or through the SEC.
What Is a Peer-To-Peer (P2P) Economy?  

A peer-to-peer (P2P) economy is a decentralized model whereby two individuals interact to buy sell goods and services directly with each other or produce goods and service together, without an intermediary third-party or the use of an incorporated entity or business firm. In a peer-to-peer transaction, the buyer and the seller transact directly with each other in terms of the delivery of the good or service and the exchange of payment. In a peer-to-peer economy, the producer is usually a private individual or independent contractor who owns both their tools (or means of production) and their finished product.





Key Takeaways

A peer-to-peer (P2P) economy is one where individuals directly transact business or cooperate in production with each other with little to no intermediation by third parties. Modern technology has helped to increase the ability of people to engage in P2P economic activity.Factors affecting whether P2P or intermediated economic activity are more likely and efficient include economies of scale, transaction costs, managerial and entrepreneurial specialization, and risk and uncertainty.


   Understanding a Peer-to-Peer (P2P) Economy  

A peer-to-peer economy is viewed as an alternative to traditional capitalism, whereby organized business firms own the means of production and also the finished product. Firms act as centralized intermediaries, selling finished goods and services to customers and hiring labor as necessary to carry out the production process.



A P2P economy can exist within a capitalist economy. Open-source software (which is P2P) co-exists with retail and commercial software. Services like Uber or Airbnb serve as alternatives to taxi and livery services or hotels and inns, respectively. These companies act as hybrids between traditional capitalist firms and true P2P activity by providing intermediary services, including a network to connect buyers and sellers and process payments, but using private contractors to deliver services directly to customers.



In P2P, with no third party involved in a transaction, there is a greater risk that the provider may fail to deliver, that the product will not be of the quality expected, or that the buyer may not pay. Reduced overhead costs and resulting lower prices might defray this extra risk.



Because providers of P2P goods or services own their finished product and means of production, the peer-to-peer economy is similar to the economic production of the pre-industrial age when everybody was a self-producer, a system that was supplanted by more efficient economic systems that provided greater productivity and wealth. The Internet and the IT revolution have made the P2P economy a much more viable system in the modern age, and have also spurred investment in service providers who, while not directly involved in the production of P2P goods or services, act to make P2P transactions more visible, safer, and efficient.



The modern state of emerging P2P economies is just the latest example of the Internet's value to consumers. The emerging Internet-empowered, self-producer model of capitalism is now significant and disruptive enough for regulators and companies to have woken up to it. That is a sign of its immense potential for such innovative business models in years to come.


   Capitalist Economy and P2P Economy  

Several factors influence the advantages of organizing economic activity into capitalist firms versus P2P economy. In capitalism, workers often do not own the means of production, nor do they have any rights to the finished product they have helped make. Instead, they are paid wages in return for their contribution to the firm's output, which then sells the product to customers. A capitalist system based on third party firms has advantages over a P2P economy in the form of generally increased productivity and efficiency of the production process due to economies of scale, management of the transaction costs of coordinating the activities of buyers and sellers, specialization and division of labor with respect to managerial ability and entrepreneurial judgment, and the transfer of risk and uncertainty from workers and customers onto business owners, who have greater resources to absorb potential losses.



These can represent advantages over a P2P system. A P2P system will be less efficient than traditional capitalist firms to the extent that it restricts production to less efficient scale; incurs higher informational or other transaction costs; limits the division of labor between business managers, entrepreneurs, workers, and customers; or limits the efficient distribution of risk and uncertainty. This extent is based on the physical technology, social institutions, and characteristics of the population in an economy. 


  Economies of Scale  

The production of some goods and services is more efficient and less costly when they can be produced in large quantities. Firms in a capitalist economy exist partly to consolidate the capital goods and labor needed to produce at large scale into a single location or operation in order to take advantage of these economies of scale. Some modern technologies, such as 3D printing, increase the efficiency of producing certain goods at smaller scales, facilitating the adoption of P2P activity in those markets.


  Transaction Costs  

The organization of traditional capitalist firms is largely determined by the transactions costs of the various transactions involved in a given production process. Gathering, sharing, and transmitting information about quality, quantity, and the cost of goods, services, and productive inputs; designing, negotiating, and enforcing contracts; and distributing the control of relationship-specific assets are examples of transactions costs that can be reduced by arranging the activities of individuals in an economy into distinct business firms. Where technology, social institutions, or population characteristics can help reduce these kind of transactions costs, business firms may be less needed and individuals can efficiently transacted business on a P2P basis.



Information technology, such as search engines and online marketplace platforms that make it easier for people to gather, share, and filter data about other buyers and sellers, is one obvious avenue for facilitating P2P activity, while formal institutions, such as a reliable system of contract and tort law that increases the ability of individuals to make and enforce business contracts or antitrust statutes that limit the ability of large firms to exercise market power to demand concessions from smaller counterparties, are another. A population of buyers and sellers with a higher social preference for trust and fairness may also be less reliant on organizing business firms to overcome transaction costs associated with information asymmetries, principal-agent problems, and hold-up over relationship-specific assets. 


  Specialization and Division of Labor  

Business firms that act as economic intermediaries economize on the use of managerial skill and entrepreneurial judgement. They allow those who have these abilities to specialize in applying them productively and those who do not have them to specialize in other activities as wage- or salary-paid employees. A P2P economy can be more successful where there are technological tools that make it easier for individuals to manage their own business and workload and to reduce the comparative advantage of specializing. A population of individuals who, for whatever reason, happen to have a better degree of management skill or entrepreneurial judgement may be more suited to benefit form a P2P economy.


  Risk and Uncertainty Bearing  

Future economic conditions are always uncertain and involves risk. Consumer preferences change, natural disasters occur, and economies undergo business cycles and recessions. Business firms in a traditional capitalist economy bear these risks and uncertainties by being responsible for the profit or loss of the business, while providing workers with a stable wage and consumers with a consistent product. In P2P economic activity, without a business firm acting as intermediary, individuals bear more of the direct risks of running their own business and directly suffer losses if uncertain economic conditions turn against them. Social institutions such as a universal basic income, single-payer healthcare, or other social safety nets could allow greater P2P economic activity by increasing individuals' ability to bear the risk of being in business for themselves. A population of people who are simply more tolerant of uncertainty and willing to take greater risks might also be more likely to be suited to P2P economy.
What Is Peer-to-Peer (P2P) Lending?  

Peer-to-peer (P2P) lending enables individuals to obtain loans directly from other individuals, cutting out the financial institution as the middleman. Websites that facilitate P2P lending have greatly increased their adoption as an alternative method of financing.



P2P lending is also known as “social lending” or “crowd lending.” It has only been around since 2005, but the crowd of competitors already includes Prosper, Lending Club, Upstart, and Funding Circle.





Key Takeaways


Peer-to-peer (P2P) lending is a form of financial technology that allows people to lend or borrow money from one another without going through a bank.
P2P lending websites connect borrowers directly to investors. The site sets the rates and terms and enables the transactions.
P2P lenders are individual investors who want to get a better return on their cash savings than they would get from a bank savings account or certificate of deposit.
P2P borrowers seek an alternative to traditional banks or a lower interest rate.
The default rates for P2P loans are much higher than those in traditional finance.



   Understanding Peer-to-Peer Lending  

P2P lending websites connect borrowers directly to lenders. Each website sets the rates and the terms and enables the transaction. Most sites have a wide range of interest rates based on the creditworthiness of the applicant.



First, an investor opens an account with the site and deposits a sum of money to be dispersed in loans. The loan applicant posts a financial profile that is assigned a risk category that determines the interest rate the applicant will pay. The loan applicant can review offers and accept one. (Some applicants break up their requests into chunks and accept multiple offers.) The money transfer and the monthly payments are handled through the platform. The process can be entirely automated, or lenders and borrowers can choose to haggle.



Some sites specialize in particular types of borrowers. Funding Circle, for example, focuses on small businesses. And Lending Club has a “Patient Solutions” category that links doctors who offer financing programs with prospective patients.


   History of Peer-to-Peer (P2P) Lending  

Early on, the P2P lending system was seen as offering credit access to people who would be spurned by conventional institutions or a way to consolidate student loan debt at a more favorable interest rate.



In recent years, however, P2P lending sites have expanded their reach. Most now target consumers who want to pay off credit card debt at a lower interest rate. Home improvement loans and auto financing are also available at P2P lending sites.



The rates for applicants with good credit are often lower than comparable bank rates, while rates for applicants with sketchy credit records may go much higher. LendingTree.com, for example, listed personal loan rates from 4.60% to 36% as of July 12, 2023. The average credit card interest rate was 20.82% as of July 20, 2023, according to CreditCards.com.



For lenders, P2P lending is a way to generate interest income on their cash at a rate that exceeds those offered by conventional savings accounts or certificates of deposit (CDs).






Some P2P sites allow lenders to start with an account balance of as little as $25.


   Special Considerations  

People who wish to lend money through a P2P lending site need to consider the possibility that their borrowers will default on their loans, just as conventional banks do. Research on P2P lending platforms has indicated that defaults are much more common than those facing traditional financial institutions, sometimes in excess of 10%.



By comparison, the S&P/Experian composite index of default rates across all types of lending to U.S. borrowers has fallen from about 1.42% to 0.72% over the ten years prior to June 2023.



Any consumer or investor considering a P2P lending site should also check the transaction fees. Every site makes money differently, but fees and commissions may be charged to the lender, the borrower, or both. Like banks, the sites may charge loan origination fees, late fees, and bounced-payment fees.




Is Peer-to-Peer Lending (P2P) Safe?
Peer-to-peer lending is riskier than a savings account or certificate of deposit, but the interest rates are often much higher. This is because people who invest in a peer-to-peer lending site assume most of the risk, which is normally assumed by banks or other financial institutions.




How Big Is the Market for Peer-to-Peer (P2P) Lending?
The global peer-to-peer lending market was worth $134.35 billion in 2022, according to figures from SNS Insider. This figure is projected to reach $705.81 billion by 2030.




How do You Invest in Peer-to-Peer Lending?
The simplest way to invest in peer-to-peer lending is to make an account on a P2P lending site and begin lending money to borrowers. These sites typically let the lender choose the profile of their borrowers, so they can choose between high risk/high returns or more modest returns. Alternatively, many P2P lending sites are public companies, so one can also invest in them by buying their stock.


   The Bottom Line  

Peer-to-peer lending sites offer options for entrepreneurs, small businesses, and individuals that might not fit the profile of the ideal loan recipient by traditional banking standards. While P2P lenders may extend credit more easily, it comes with higher fees and interest for borrowers and a higher risk of default for lenders. Many P2P platforms make it easy to invest or borrow, but read the fine print to learn about all the associated fees before signing anything.
What Is Pegging?  

The term pegging refers to the practice of attaching or tying a currency's exchange rate to another country's currency. Pegging often involves preset ratios, which is why it's called a fixed rate. Pegs are often put in place to provide stability to a nation's currency by linking it to an already stable currency.



The U.S. dollar is often used as a currency peg by many nations, as it is the world's reserve currency. Pegging can also refer to the practice of manipulating the price of an underlying asset, such as a commodity, prior to option expiry.





Key Takeaways

Pegging is a way of controlling a country's currency rate by tying it to another country's currency.Many countries stabilize their currencies by pegging them to the U.S. dollar, which is globally considered to be the most stable currency.Currencies that are pegged to the U.S. dollar include the Belize dollar, the Hong Kong dollar, and the United Arab Emirates dirham. Pegging currencies can help expand trade and boost real incomes but may also lead to chronic trade deficits.Pegging is also an illegal strategy deployed by some buyers and writers (sellers) of call and put options to manipulate its price.


   Understanding Pegging  

Wide currency fluctuations can be quite detrimental to international business transactions, which is why many countries maintain a currency peg. Doing so allows them to keep their currencies relatively stable against that of another country.



Pegging to the U.S. dollar is common. As noted above, that's because the dollar is the world's reserve currency. In Europe, the Swiss franc was pegged to the euro for the better part of the four-year period between 2011 and 2015, though this was done more so to curb the strength of the franc from a persistent inflow of capital.



Pegging is also a price manipulation strategy used sometimes by options traders as expiration approaches. Writers (options shorts) are most commonly associated with the practice of driving up or down the price of the underlying security in an options contract as the expiry date approaches. That's because they have a monetary incentive to ensure that the option expires out of the money (OTM) so the buyer does not exercise the option contract.






The currencies of over 66 countries are pegged to the U.S. dollar, according to AvaTrade.


   Currency Pegging  

Currency risk makes it difficult for companies to manage their finances. To minimize currency risk, many countries peg an exchange rate to that of the United States, which has a large and stable economy. But how does it work?



Countries often choose to peg their currencies to a stable one. This allows them to keep their currencies stable while allowing their products and services to remain competitive in the export market. Exchange rates between pegged currencies are fixed. For instance, the fixed rate for a single U.S. dollar is 3.67 United Arab Emirates dirham (AED).



A country's central bank goes into the open market to buy and sell its currency in order to maintain the pegged ratio that has been deemed to provide optimal stability. If a country’s currency value experiences large fluctuations, it becomes even more difficult for foreign companies to operate and generate a profit.



For example, if a U.S. company operates in Brazil, the firm has to convert U.S. dollars into Brazilian reals (BRL) to fund the business. If the value of Brazil’s currency changes dramatically compared to the dollar, the U.S. company may incur a loss when it converts back into U.S. dollars.






Major currency peg breakdowns include the Argentine peso to the U.S. dollar in 2002, the British pound to the German mark in 1992, and the U.S. dollar to gold in 1971.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Pegging  

There are some benefits and drawbacks when it comes to pegging. We've highlighted some of the key pros and cons below.


  Advantages  

Pegged currencies can expand trade and boost real incomes, particularly when currency fluctuations are relatively low and show no long-term changes. Individuals, businesses, and nations are free to benefit fully from specialization and exchange without any of the associated exchange rate risk and tariffs. According to the theory of comparative advantage, everyone will be able to spend more time doing what they do best.



Farmers can use pegged exchange rates to simply produce food as best they can, rather than spending time and money hedging foreign exchange risk with derivatives. Similarly, technology firms can focus on building better computers.



Perhaps most importantly, retailers in both countries can source from the most efficient producers. Pegged exchange rates make more long-term investments possible in the other country. With a currency peg, fluctuating exchange rates are not constantly disrupting supply chains and changing the value of investments.



Central banks with a currency peg must monitor supply and demand and manage cash flow to avoid spikes in demand or supply. These spikes can cause a currency to stray from its pegged price. That means these authorities need to hold large foreign exchange reserves to counter excessive buying or selling of its currency. Currency pegs affect forex trading by artificially stemming volatility.


  Disadvantages  

Countries experience a particular set of problems when a currency is pegged at low exchange rates. Domestic consumers are deprived of the purchasing power to buy foreign goods. Suppose the Chinese yuan is pegged too low against the U.S. dollar. Chinese consumers will have to pay more for imported food and oil, lowering their consumption and standard of living. But U.S. farmers and Middle East oil producers who would sell them more goods lose business. This situation naturally creates trade tensions between the country with an undervalued currency and the rest of the world.



More problems emerge when a currency is pegged at an overly high rate. A country may be unable to defend the peg over time. Since governments set rates too high, domestic consumers will buy too many imports and consume more than they can produce. These chronic trade deficits will create downward pressure on the home currency, and the government will have to spend foreign exchange reserves to defend the peg. The government's reserves will eventually be exhausted, and the peg will collapse.



When a currency peg collapses, the country that set the peg too high will suddenly find imports more expensive. That means inflation will rise, and the nation may also have difficulty paying its debts. The other country will find its exporters losing markets, and its investors losing money on foreign assets that are no longer worth as much in domestic currency.





Pros

Expands trade and boosts real income
Producers focus on producing rather than hedging exchange risk
Better chance to make long-term investments



Cons

The power to purchase foreign goods drops
Can lead to chronic trade deficits
Higher priced imports and rising inflation





   Why Peg to the Dollar?  

When a country pegs its currency to the dollar, it fixes the exchange at a set, predetermined rate. The value of the currency is maintained by the country's central bank. Since the dollar's value is on a floating rate, it fluctuates. This means that the pegged currency's value rises and drops with the dollar.



Countries that peg their currency to the dollar do so because the U.S. dollar is the world's reserve currency and is relatively strong in the international market. As such, transactions and any international trade that takes place often happens in U.S. dollars. This helps keep a country's pegged currency stable.



Some countries peg to the dollar because it helps keep their currencies and, therefore, their exports priced competitively. Others do so because they are reliant on trade, such as Singapore and Malaysia.


   Currencies Pegged to the Dollar  

As noted above, the U.S. dollar is a popular currency that other countries use to peg their own currencies. Countries that choose to do so often have different reasons that are based on their own economies. Here are some of the most notable countries whose currencies are pegged to the greenback along with their rates:



Belize dollar (BZ$): 2.00Cuba convertible peso (CUC): 1.000Hong Kong dollar (HKD): 7.76Panama balboa (PAB): 1.000Saudi Arabia riyal (SAR): 3.75United Arab Emirates dirham (AED): 3.673


   Options Pegging  

The buyer of a call option pays a premium to obtain the right to buy the stock (underlying security) at a specified strike price. The writer of that call option, meanwhile, receives the premium and is obligated to sell the stock, and expose themselves to the resulting infinite risk potential, if the buyer chooses to exercise the option contract.



For example, an investor buys a $50 call option, which gives them the right to buy XYZ stock at the strike price of $50 by June 30. The writer has already collected the premium from the buyer and would ideally like to see the option expire worthless (stock price less than $50 at expiry).



The buyer wants the price of XYZ to rise above the strike price plus the premium paid per share. Only at this level would it make sense for the buyer to exercise the option. If the price is very close to the strike plus premium per share level just before the option's expiry date then the buyer and especially the writer of the call would have an incentive to be active in buying and selling the underlying stock, respectively. This activity is known as pegging



The converse holds true as well. The buyer of a put option pays a premium to obtain the right to sell the stock at the specified strike price, while the writer of that put option receives the premium and is obligated to buy the stock, and expose themselves to the resulting infinite risk potential, if the buyer chooses to exercise the option contract.



A lesser-used definition of pegging occurs mainly in futures markets and entails a commodity exchange linking daily trading limits to the previous day's settlement price so as to control price fluctuations.


  Example of Options Pegging  

An investor buys a put option on XYZ stock with a strike price of $45 that expires on July 31 and pays the required premium. The writer receives the premium and the waiting game begins.



The writer wants the price of the underlying stock to remain above $45 minus the premium paid per share, while the buyer wants to see it below that level. Again, if the price of XYZ stock is very close to this level, then both would be actively selling and buying to try to influence XYZ's price to where it would benefit them.



While this concept of pegging could apply to both, it is used predominantly by sellers as they have a bit more incentive to not see the option contract exercised.




Is the Yuan Pegged to the Dollar?
The yuan has been pegged to a basket of international currencies, which includes the U.S. dollar, since 2005. This allows the country's central bank to maintain full control of the currency by setting a daily rate of parity against the greenback. Any changes to the rate are restricted, meaning they can only fall within 2% of that mark.The yuan was pegged solely to the U.S. dollar before this. In 1994, the peg was set at 8.28 yuan to a single U.S. dollar. Its major trading partners put pressure on China's leaders to allow it to appreciate against the dollar in 2005.




Which Country Has No Currency of Its Own?
There are a number of different countries that don't have their own currency. For instance, 19 member states of the European Union use the euro as their currency. Some countries use the U.S. dollar exclusively for transactions, including Zimbabwe, Ecuador, El Salvador, East Timor, and the Turks and Caicos islands among others.




What Is a Soft Peg Versus a Hard Peg?
The foreign exchange market often controls the exchange rate for a specific currency in a soft peg. In some cases, though, the government may choose to act to strengthen or weaken the currency when the need arises. Hard pegs occur when a government sets the exchange rate for its currency.
What Is a Pell Grant?  

A Pell Grant is a form of need-based federal aid for students in college or other post-secondary education. In contrast with student loans, Pell Grants do not have to be repaid except in rare instances.





Key Takeaways

Pell Grants are awarded based on financial need and, unlike loans, typically don't have to be repaid.Applicants must complete a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) every year in order to qualify.The school determines how much Pell Grant money (if any) a student may receive, up to the federal maximum.


   How a Pell Grant Works  

To be eligible for a Pell Grant, students and their parents must fill out the government's Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA).



The application, which can be completed online, asks a series of questions about the student's and parents' finances, in addition to other relevant information, such as whether any of the student's siblings will be in college at the same time. Schools that the student applies to will receive an electronic copy of the application.



Financial aid officers at those schools use the FAFSA to determine how much federal aid to offer the student. The school's calculations consider the difference between the expected family contribution (EFC), as calculated by the FAFSA, and that school's cost of attendance (COA).



Expected family contribution (EFC) is based on the student's and family's income and assets, such as bank and investment accounts.Cost of attendance (COA) includes the school's tuition and fees, as well as room and board, books, and other expenses. Most schools publish their cost of attendance on their websites and elsewhere.



To bridge the gap between the EFC and the COA, the school may offer the student a combination of Pell Grants, subsidized and unsubsidized federal loans, and paid work-study jobs. Pell Grants and subsidized loans are intended for students with "exceptional financial need," while unsubsidized loans are available to students and parents regardless of financial need. Colleges typically make these financial aid offers around the same time that they send out their acceptance letters.



Only undergraduate students generally qualify for Pell Grants, though there is an exception for some post-baccalaureate teacher training programs.






The confusingly named Expected Family Contribution (EFC) has been renamed the Student Aid Index (SAI) to clarify its meaning for the 2023–24 award year. EFC does not indicate how much the student and their family must pay the college, but is used to calculate how much student aid the applicant is eligible to receive.


   Pell Grant Maximums and Other Limits  

The maximum annual Pell Grant for the 2023–2024 school year is $7,395. There is also a limit on how much you can receive in total: 12 terms, or roughly six years of funding. To keep track, the government calculates your Lifetime Eligibility Used (LEU) percentage while you are receiving Pell Grants.



You can see how much you have left to go by logging into your My Aid account on the Department of Education's Federal Student Aid website. Your eligibility for Pell Grants ends when you receive your degree.






In August 2022, President Joe Biden announced a federal student loan plan that would have canceled some Pell Grant loans for graduates, non-graduates, and current students are all eligible under the plan. In June 2023, the Supreme Court ruled he did not have the power to make such a plan, and the student loan forgiveness endeavor was struck down.


   Other Federal Grants for Education  

While the Pell Grant is the primary subsidy for higher education, the federal government also funds several smaller aid programs.


  Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants (FSEOG)  

Like Pell Grants, these grants are for students with "extreme financial need" as determined through the FAFSA. The awards range from as little as $100 to as much as $4,000 a year. FSEOGs are not available at every school, and the schools that do offer them may have a limited amount of money to allocate.


  Teacher Education Access for College and Higher Education (TEACH) Grants  

These grants are for students planning to teach high-need subjects, such as math, science, foreign languages, and special education in low-income areas. They are worth up to $4,000 per year.



TEACH grants recipients are required to fulfill service requirements, including at least four years of full-time teaching. If they fail to do so, the grant is converted into a direct federal unsubsidized loan that must be repaid.


  Iraq and Afghanistan Service Grants  

These grants are available to students who lost a parent or guardian as a member of the U.S. armed forces serving in Iraq or Afghanistan after 9/11 and who don't qualify for a Pell Grant. The student must have been under 24 years old or enrolled in college at least part-time at the time of the parent or guardian's death.



The maximum Iraq and Afghanistan Service Grant is based on the maximum Pell Grant for that year, but reduced by 5.7% as a result of the Budget Control Act of 2011.




How Do You Stay Eligible for Pell Grants?
In order to continue receiving Pell Grants or other federal financial aid, students and their parents must fill out a new FAFSA every year. Students must also show that they are making "satisfactory academic progress" toward their degree or other education goal, such as a certificate. Satisfactory academic progress is defined by the school and may involve maintaining a minimum grade-point average, taking a certain number of credits, or other requirements. Students may lose eligibility for Pell Grants, at least temporarily, if they default on a student loan.




What Happens to Unused Pell Grant Money?
Generally, your school will first apply the money from your Pell Grant and other aid, such as loans, toward your tuition, fees, and room and board. If there's anything left over in your account after that (often referred to as a "credit balance"), the school is required to pay it to you within 14 days, unless you've authorized the school to apply it toward your future bills. These federal funds are typically disbursed each school term or at least twice a year.




Do You Have to Pay Back Pell Grants?
Grants, like scholarships, generally represent money that doesn't have to be repaid. However, there are circumstances when you might have to repay some or all of your Pell Grant. Those include dropping out of the program of study for which you were awarded the grant, changing your attendance from full-time to part-time, or receiving other scholarships or grants that reduce your eligibility for federal aid. If any of this happens, the school should let you know how much you owe and how to repay it.




Who Was Pell?
Pell Grants are named for the late U.S. Senator Claiborne de Borda Pell of Rhode Island, who championed them.


   The Bottom Line  

Pell Grants can help undergraduate students with significant financial need pay for college or other post-secondary education. Unlike student loans they do not have to be repaid in most circumstances. To apply for a Pell Grant, students and their families need to fill out the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA).
What Is Penetration Pricing?  

Penetration pricing is a marketing strategy used by businesses to attract customers to a new product or service by offering a lower price during its initial offering. The lower price helps a new product or service penetrate the market and attract customers away from competitors. Market penetration pricing relies on the strategy of using low prices initially to make a wide number of customers aware of a new product.



The goal of a price penetration strategy is to entice customers to try a new product and build market share with the hope of keeping the new customers once prices rise back to normal levels. Penetration pricing examples include an online news website offering one month free for a subscription-based service or a bank offering a free checking account for six months.





Key Takeaways

Penetration pricing is a strategy used by businesses to attract customers to a new product or service by offering a lower price initially.The lower price helps a new product or service penetrate the market and attract customers away from competitors.Elastic goods are the best types of goods for penetration pricing as small changes in price often lead to large changes in demand.Penetration pricing comes with the risk that new customers may choose the brand initially, but once prices increase, switch to a competitor.Companies often entice customers with unprofitable strategies (i.e. offering a new cell phone) in exchange for a long-term agreement (i.e. a multi-year service plan). 


   Understanding Penetration Pricing  

Penetration pricing, similar to loss leader pricing, can be a successful marketing strategy when applied correctly. It can often increase both market share and sales volume. Additionally, a higher amount of sales can lead to lower production costs and quick inventory turnover. However, the key to a successful campaign is keeping the newly-acquired customers.



For example, a company might advertise a buy-one-get-one-free (BOGO) campaign to attract customers to a store or website. Once a purchase has been made; ideally, an email or contact list is created to follow-up and offer additional products or services to the new customers at a later date.



New entrants often use penetration pricing strategy to quickly steal a portion of the market share. Because its brand is not yet known, it must rely on favorable pricing to differentiate itself from other, more established market participants. Once a company has attracted customers via penetration pricing, it often changes strategy to create brand loyalty, convert customers into long-term consumers, and drive competitors out of the market.






Penetration pricing may be temporary (i.e. an offer for this weekend only) or embedded into the company's long-term strategy (i.e. a deal whenever a customer switches from a competitor).


   Tips on Successful Penetration Pricing  

Penetration pricing is just the first step to a long-term plan to attract, convert, and establish relationships with new customers. In order for a penetration pricing strategy to work, it must often meet the following criteria or adhere to the following guidelines.


  High Product Demand  

Penetration pricing is most effective when there are goods in high demand. If there is not a large market for a product, it often is less important the price of the good because there are less consumers to capitalize and attempt to retain. Therefore, the most successful penetration pricing strategies rely on broader markets with more exposure where a single penetration pricing strategy can have the greatest effect.


  Avoid Price Wars  

Though easier said than done, the goal of a pricing strategy is not to get into a spiraling competition with another company. The purpose of penetration pricing is not to simply offer a very low price; it is to most effectively take market share. Price wars can be expensive, ineffective, and may publicly damage the reputation of a company should the battle ineffectively evolve.


  Pursue Economies of Scale  

As the company attracts new customers, it is imperative that the company seeks out economies of scale. With more customers, the company should be able to more efficiently use resources, obtain pricing, and scale operations. For example, consider a company ordering raw materials for inventory. With more customers and more orders, the company should be able to purchase larger quantities and reduce its cost per unit produced.


  Gradually Make Changes  

One of the worst strategies to employ with penetration pricing is to raise the price back to normal too quickly. Not only does this open the door for a competitor to swoop in an employ their own penetration pricing strategy, but quickly making changes breaks customer trust. With the customer on board with the new company, the new company must slowly make changes and gradually raise prices to more profitable levels, else it will face the risk of losing the long-term value.


  Build Long-Term Loyalty  

Though penetration pricing is a short-term strategy, the ultimate goal is to foster long-term loyalty. That means honoring existing pricing where applicable, understanding limitations on what can be offered, and still emphasizing value in product quality and customer service. As many telecom companies offer sign-up bonuses or one-time incentives to switch providers, it is then their responsibility to foster the business relationship.






Companies that employed penetration pricing themselves may be exposed to penetration pricing counterstrategies when they finally decide its time to raise prices.


   Penetration Pricing Participants  

There are three primary users of penetration pricing, each of which are discussed below.


  New Companies  

Most often, penetration pricing is used by new competitors entering a market for the very first time. These companies do not have an existing presence in the market and are often not known or may be young. These companies may have limited resources, so they may not be able to deploy capital for aggressive marketing campaigns. The ultimate goal of these new companies is to steal market share from market leaders.


  Established Brands Offering New Products  

In other cases, more established companies may introduce new products to the market. Although the brand name may be recognized and known, the company may not be known for some specific products. Because the company may have a large stockpile of resources, it often is able to sacrifice short-term profits in favor of establishing itself in a new market.


  Price-Elastic Brands  

Last, some companies may use penetration pricing for items that have high price elasticity. Price elasticity is the relationship between demand and price for a good; if a small change in price creates a large change in demand, the price is said to highly elastic. In these cases, a company may very slightly reduce its price to achieve the benefits of the price elasticity.






Penetration pricing may occur every time you use a coupon, as a company or product is trying to lure you into paying a lower price in exchange for your business relationship.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Penetration Pricing  
  Pros of Penetration Pricing  

The primary advantage of penetration pricing is that is may be one of the quickest ways to convert a customer. Many customers may not be loyal to a specific brand. In these cases, it may be easiest to simply offer a lower price to attract their business. Whether a company is a service company, retailer, or manufacturer, all types of companies can offer penetration pricing strategies.



Companies can successfully use this short-term strategy and leverage new customers into long-term success. Companies can capitalize on goodwill earned when their pricing discounts were available, and this may foster brand recognition for being one of the low-price providers in an industry. As long as consumers associate the penetration pricing company as the low-cost provider, there will always be long-term brand equity created via penetration pricing.



Penetration pricing also fosters loyalty because consumers directly benefit from the lower price. Though some of this loyal is jeopardized as a company begins to raise its prices in the long-term, consumers may not directly benefit from conversion tactics quite like they can when companies battle over lower prices.



Penetration pricing may also help naturally foster economies of scale. If pricing is aggressive enough, a massive amount of customers may be converted. As a company has larger order quantities and is able to build greater infrastructure, it often experiences less cost per unit due to manufacturing or operational efficiencies.


  Cons of Penetration Pricing  

Though customers are attracted by a very low price, it may not be feasible to offer that price forever. The new company is trying to eventually make a profit, and some penetration pricing strategies result in short-term losses. A company must be able to temporarily cover its expenses if it is not earning enough from customers during the penetration pricing period.



Once customers are lured, there is a significant risk of consumers leaving once prices are increased. Consider the fact that a consumer lured by penetration pricing may leave because of another penetration pricing strategy. A company must be incredibly sensitive to raising prices, changing contract agreements, and making changes in the long term.



Some consumers may view penetration pricing as an unfavorable marketing tactic. A company may get the reputation of having lower-quality goods should consumers inappropriately associate low prices with product quality. Consumers may also see through the strategy and not appreciate the attempt to be bailed by short-term marketing tactics.



As other companies take wind of what is happening, they may decide to price match or further reduce their own price. In addition, many companies now offer price matching and may have a greater warranty or customer service process. Companies must move delicately as creating an expensive price war often leaves the new company in a less favorable position than before.



Last, penetration pricing strategies are not useful as long-term strategies. They take effort to create, then a company needs to change direction again and deploy more resources to create long-term value. These changing strategies may be burdensome to finance and must be aligned in order to effectively streamline a short-term customer into a lifetime purchaser.




Penetration Pricing Pros and Cons

Pros

May be one of the fastest ways to convert a customer
Can be used by a variety of types of companies
May foster brand recognition as the low-price provider
Directly benefit consumers
May foster economies of scale



Cons

May result in short-term losses
Must be gradually phased out as customers may leave as easily as they were lured
May result in price war which leaves the new company in a worst position than before
Not useful as a long-term strategy by itself





   Penetration Pricing vs. Skimming  

With pricing penetration, companies advertise new products at low prices, with modest or nonexistent margins. Conversely, a skimming strategy involves companies marketing products at high prices with relatively high margins. A skimming strategy works well for innovative or luxury products where early adopters have low price sensitivity and are willing to pay higher prices. Effectively, producers are skimming the market to maximize profits. Over time, prices will reduce to levels comparable to market prices in order to capture the rest of the market. 



Small businesses or those in niche markets can benefit from price skimming when their products or services are differentiated from competitors' and when synonymous with quality and a positive brand image.


   Real-World Examples  

Costco and Kroger, two major grocery store chains, use market penetration pricing for the organic foods they sell. Traditionally, the margin on groceries is minimal. However, the margin on organic foods tends to be higher. Kroger and Costco use a penetration pricing strategy when they sell organic foods at lower prices. The lower costs allow Kroger and Costco to maintain their profit margins even while undercutting the pricing of their competition.



Cell phone carriers also implement penetration pricing by offering the latest cell phones when a new consumer agrees to a long-term service contract. For example, T-Mobile (and other carriers) now offer a free phone when a customer switches to a T-Mobile plan from a plan with another company. The company can't simply survive forever by giving away these phones for free.




Is Penetration Pricing Ethical?
Yes, penetration pricing is a valid strategy is that is used to temporarily offer lower prices to attract a customer. There is nothing unethical or illegal about it, though there are very strong considerations a company must make once a customer has been attracted. For example, once a new customer has agreed to a long-term contract, it is the company's responsibility to honor that agree even it is unprofitable and not "bait and switch" the customer.




When Would a Company Use Penetration Pricing?
A company uses penetration pricing when it does not have a presence in a given market. Whether it is a brand new company or an old company introducing a new product, most penetration pricing strategies occur when new products are introduced and a company wants to steal market share from existing companies.




What Types of Products Are Most Successful With Penetration Pricing?
The most elastic goods are often the most successful with penetration pricing. These goods often have the largest changes in demand with very subtle changes in price. Goods such as internet, cable, banking services, groceries, airline tickets, or hospitality services are often easier to use penetration prices with as small changes in price may more easily swing demand.


   The Bottom Line  

Penetration pricing is the short-term strategy to lure customers from competitors by offering lower prices. Though these prices may not be profitable in the long-term, a company's hope is they can convert the customer into a long-term relationship that ultimately yields a profit per consumer.
What Is a Pennant?  

In technical analysis, a pennant is a type of continuation pattern formed when there is a large movement in a security, known as the flagpole, followed by a consolidation period with converging trend lines—the pennant—followed by a breakout movement in the same direction as the initial large movement, which represents the second half of the flagpole.






Pennants are continuation patterns where a period of consolidation is followed by a breakout used in technical analysis.It's important to look at the volume in a pennant—the period of consolidation should have lower volume and the breakouts should occur on higher volume.Most traders use pennants in conjunction with other forms of technical analysis that act as confirmation.






   Understanding Pennants  

Pennants, which are similar to flags in terms of structure, have converging trend lines during their consolidation period and last from one to three weeks. The volume at each period of the pennant is also important. The initial move must be met with large volume while the pennant should have weakening volume, followed by a large increase in volume during the breakout.



Here's an example of what a pennant looks like:












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019



In the image above, the flagpole represents the previous trend higher, the period of consolidation forms a pennant pattern, and traders watch for a breakout from the upper trend line of the symmetrical triangle. 



Many traders look to enter new long or short positions following a breakout from the pennant chart pattern. For example, a trader may see that a bullish pennant is forming and place a limit buy order just above the pennant's upper trendline. When the security breaks out, the trader may look for above average volume to confirm that pattern and hold the position until it reaches its price target.



The price target for pennants is often established by applying the initial flagpole's height to the point at which the price breaks out from the pennant. For instance, if a stock rises from $5.00 to $10.00 in a sharp rally, consolidates to around $8.50, and then breaks out from the pennant at $9.00, a trader might look for a $14.00 price target on the position—or $5.00 plus $9.00. The stop-loss level is often set at the lowest point of the pennant pattern, since a breakdown from these levels would invalidate the pattern and could mark the beginning of a longer-term reversal.



Most traders use pennants in conjunction with other chart patterns or technical indicators that serve as confirmation. For example, traders may watch for relative strength index (RSI) levels to moderate during the consolidation phase and reach oversold levels, which opens the door for a potential move higher. Or, the consolidation may occur near trendline resistance levels, where a breakout could create a new support level.


   Example of a Pennant  

Let's take a look at a real-life example of a pennant:













In the above example, the stock creates a pennant when it breaks out, experiences a period of consolidation, and then breaks out higher. The upper trend line resistance trend line of the pennant also corresponds to reaction highs. Traders could have watched for a breakout from these levels as a buying opportunity and profited from the subsequent breakout.
What Is a Penny Stock?  

A penny stock typically refers to the stock of a small company that trades for less than $5 per share. Though some penny stocks trade on large exchanges such as the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), most trade via over-the-counter (OTC) transactions through the electronic OTC Bulletin Board (OTCBB) or through the privately-owned OTC Markets Group.



There is no trading floor for OTC transactions. Quotations are also all done electronically.





Key Takeaways

A penny stock refers to a small company's stock that typically trades for less than $5 per share. Although some penny stocks trade on large exchanges such as the NYSE, most penny stocks trade over the counter through the OTC Bulletin Board (OTCBB).While there can be sizable gains in trading penny stocks, there are also equal risks of losing a significant amount of an investment in a short period.












Investopedia / Ryan Oakley


   Understanding Penny Stocks  

In the past, penny stocks were considered any stocks that traded for less than one dollar per share. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has modified the definition to include all shares trading below five dollars. The SEC is an independent federal government agency responsible for protecting investors by maintaining the proper and orderly functioning of the securities markets.



Penny stocks are usually associated with small companies with a lack of liquidity, meaning that there are few ready buyers in the marketplace. As a result, investors may find it difficult to sell stock since there may not be enough buyers. Because of the low liquidity, investors might have difficulty finding a price that accurately reflects the market.



Due to their lack of liquidity, wide bid-ask spreads or price quotes, and small company sizes, penny stocks are generally considered highly speculative. In other words, investors could lose a sizable amount or all of their investment.






   Penny Stock Volatility  

Penny stocks often represent growing companies with limited cash and resources. Since these are primarily small companies, penny stocks are most suitable for investors who have a high tolerance for risk.



Typically, penny stocks have a higher level of volatility, resulting in a higher potential for reward and, thus, a higher level of inherent risk. Investors may lose their entire investment on a penny stock, or more than their investment if they buy on margin, which means the investor borrowed funds from a bank or broker to purchase the shares.



Investors should consider the heightened risks associated with penny stocks. For example, an investor should have a stop-loss order predetermined before entering a trade and know what price level to exit if the market moves against them. Stop-loss orders set a price limit that, once reached, will trigger an automatic sale of the securities.



Although penny stocks can have explosive gains, it is essential to have realistic expectations and understand that penny stocks are high-risk investments with low trading volumes.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Penny Stocks  

Due to their low volume, penny stocks tend to be more volatile than established equities. This means high opportunities for both gains and losses, and investors should be careful to understand both the risks and benefits.


  Funding for Small Companies  

Penny stocks do provide some small businesses with a way to access funding from the public. These companies may use this platform as a starting block to move into a larger marketplace.


  High Potential for Growth  

Also, since they sell at such low prices, there is room for significant upside. Some companies, such as Amazon (AMZN) originated as penny stocks but later grew into sizable blue-chip companies.



A blue chip is a nationally recognized, well-established, and financially sound company. Blue chips generally sell high-quality, widely accepted products and services. Blue-chip companies typically have a history of weathering downturns and operate profitably in the face of adverse economic conditions, which helps to contribute to their long record of stable and reliable growth.



However, some factors exacerbate the risk associated with investing in or trading penny stocks. These securities are usually riskier than more established companies.







Why Do Penny Stocks Fail?


  Lack of Information Available to the Public  

When considering options for potential investments, it's important to have enough information to make an informed decision. For some penny stocks, information on corporate performance can be very difficult to find. When this is the case, the information that is available about them may not come from credible sources.



Stocks traded on the OTCBB carry the "OB" suffix to their symbol. These companies file financial statements with the SEC. However, companies listed on the pink sheets are not required to file with the SEC. As such these businesses do not receive the same public scrutiny or regulation as the stocks represented on the NYSE, the Nasdaq, and other markets.


  No Minimum Standards  

Stocks on the OTCBB and pink sheets do not have to fulfill minimum standard requirements to remain available for sale through OTC exchanges. Once a company can no longer maintain its listing position on one of the major exchanges, the company can move to one of the smaller OTC listing exchanges. Minimum standards can act as a safety cushion for some investors. When a company is not subject to higher standards, investing in that company becomes much riskier.


  Lack of History  

Many of the companies considered to be penny stocks could be newly formed, and some could be approaching bankruptcy. These companies will generally have poor track records or no track record at all. As you can imagine, this lack of historical information makes it difficult to determine a stock's potential.


  Liquidity and Fraud  

Stocks that trade infrequently do not have much liquidity. As a result, it is possible that investors won't be able to sell the stock once it is acquired. The investors might need to lower their price until it is considered attractive to another buyer.



Low liquidity levels also provide opportunities for some traders to manipulate stock prices. The pump and dump scheme is a popular trading scam to lure investors into buying a stock. Large amounts of a penny stock are purchased followed by a period when the stock is hyped up or pumped up.



Once other investors rush to buy the stock, the scammers sell their shares. Once the market realizes there was no fundamental reason for the stock to rise, investors rush to sell and can take on heavy losses.





Pros

Offer a place for small companies to gain access public funding.
In some cases, penny stocks may provide a method to gain access to larger marketplace listing.
With a lower price, penny stocks allow for significant upside in share appreciation.



Cons

Penny stocks lack a liquid market with few buyers, perhaps even after their price has increased.
There is limited information available on the company's financial record.
Penny stocks have a high probability of fraud and bankruptcy of the underlying company.





   Tips for Investing in Penny Stocks  

While penny stocks are volatile, there are some cautions that an investor can take to reduce their downside risk. One is to conduct proper due diligence: Since penny stocks tend to trade in venues with lower entry requirements, investors should take extra care to read the company's statements and ensure that the company is financially sound.



It is also important to rely on reputable stockbrokers. While there are scams to watch out for, most of them are promoted by dubious emails and cold calls. A reputable broker should be able to provide high-quality written research to back up any investment claims.



Finally, as with any speculative investment, never put in more money than you can afford to lose. While you may make a profit by day trading, the returns are much more steady with established, large-cap equities.


   Can You Make Money on Penny Stocks?  

Despite the risks, penny stocks can be profitable for a cautious or thorough investor. The key is to avoid certain fallacies that are common among speculative investments, such as the belief that they have the opportunity to make large gains. While this is true, they are equally likely to score large losses.



Another important fallacy to avoid is the low-price fallacy, which holds that low-priced securities are inherently "cheaper" than higher-priced ones. However, this does not account for factors like market capitalization or liquidity. Even if a certain stock doubles in price, it may be impossible to sell a large number of stocks without causing price slippage.


   Signs of Scams  

Though there is no fool-proof strategy for knowing which penny stocks are fraudulent, the SEC recommends that investors heed the following warning signs in a company's record: SEC trading suspensions, large assets but small revenues, financial statements containing unusual items in the footnotes, odd auditing issues, and large insider ownership.


   Real-World Example of Penny Stock Scams  

California resident Zirk de Maison created nearly half of a dozen shell companies and offered them as penny stocks to investors between 2008 and 2013, according to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI).



De Maison told investors that the companies engaged in a variety of businesses, such as gold mining and diamond trading when, in fact, they did nothing. He sold the stocks in "boiler rooms," offices where brokers use high-pressure tactics to push people into buying stocks by promising large profits. In 2015, de Maison and seven other perpetrators were found guilty of securities fraud and sentenced to federal prison. 


   How Is a Penny Stock Created?  

Small companies and startups typically issue stock as a means of raising capital to grow the business. Although the process is lengthy, issuing stock is often one of the quickest and most effective ways for a startup company to obtain capital.



A penny stock, like any other publicly traded stock, is created through a process called an initial public offering or IPO. To be listed on the OTCBB the company must first file a registration statement with the SEC or file stating the offering qualifies for an exemption from registration. It must also check state securities laws in the locations it plans to sell the stock. Once approved, the company may begin the process of soliciting orders from investors.



Finally, the company can apply to have the stock listed on a larger exchange, or it can trade on the over-the-counter market.


  Underwriting Penny Stock  

As with other new offerings, the first step is hiring an underwriter, usually an attorney or investment bank specializing in securities offerings. The company's offering either needs to be registered with the SEC, according to Regulation A of the Securities Act of 1933, or file under Regulation D if exempt. If the company is required to register, Form 1-A, the registration statement, must be filed with the SEC along with the company's financial statements and proposed sales materials.



The financial statements need to remain available for the public to review, and timely reports must be filed with the SEC to maintain the public offering. Once approved by the SEC, orders for shares may be solicited from the public by accompanying sales materials and disclosures, such as a prospectus.


  Trading Penny Stocks  

After initial orders are collected and the stock is sold to investors, a registered offering can begin trading in the secondary market by listing on an exchange like the NYSE, Nasdaq, or trade over-the-counter. Many penny stocks wind up trading via OTC due to the strict requirements for listing on larger exchanges.



Sometimes companies make an additional secondary market offering after the IPO, which dilutes the existing shares but gives the company access to more investors and increased capital. Furthermore, it is mandatory that the companies continue to publicly provide updated financial statements to keep investors informed and continue to be quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board.


   Regulations for Penny Stocks   

Penny stocks are considered highly speculative investments. To protect investors, the SEC and Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) have rules to regulate the trading of penny stocks. All broker-dealers must comply with Section 15(h) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the accompanying rules to be eligible to handle penny stock transactions.



Following Exchange Act rules of §240.15g-9, the broker-dealer must approve the investor's transaction and make sure the investment is suitable for their purchase. They must provide the customer with a standardized disclosure document as outlined in §240.15g-2. This document explains the risks associated with buying penny stocks, customer rights, and solutions in cases of fraud.Rule §240.15g-3 requires broker-dealers to disclose and confirm currently quoted prices before completing a penny stock transaction.Rule §240.15g-4 states the broker must tell the investor about the funds the broker earns from facilitating the transaction.Brokers must send monthly account statements that include details of the number and identity of each penny stock in the customer's account, as described by rule §240.15g-6. These statements must explain that the penny stock has limited market liquidity and provide an estimate of what they think the shares are worth in this limited market.


   After-Hours Trading  

Penny stocks can be traded after hours, and since many significant market movements can happen after exchanges close, penny stocks are subject to volatile fluctuations after-hours. If penny stock investors execute buy or sell trades after-hours, they may be able to sell shares for very high prices or purchase shares for very low prices.



However, even the best penny stocks are subject to low liquidity and inferior reporting. Also, if a penny stock does spike after hours, an investor looking to sell the stock might have a hard time finding a buyer. Penny stocks infrequently trade, even more so after market hours, which can make it difficult to buy and sell after hours.


   When Is It Not a Penny Stock?  

Multiple events can trigger the transition of a penny stock to a regular stock. The company can issue new securities in an offering that is registered with the SEC, or it can register an existing class of securities with the regulatory body.



Both types of transactions automatically require the firm to adhere to periodic reporting, including disclosures to investors about its business activities, financial conditions, and company management unless there is an exemption. These filings also mandate 10-Q quarterly reports, the annual Form 10-K, and periodic Form 8-K reports, which detail unexpected and significant events.



In some instances, there are additional conditions that will require a company to file reports with the SEC. Reports must be filed if a company has either at least 2,000 investors, more than 500 investors that can’t be categorized as accredited investors, and possesses more than US$10 million in assets.



Usually, companies with no more than $10 million in assets and fewer than 2,000 recorded shareholders don’t have to adhere to reporting guidelines under the SEC. Interestingly enough, some companies opt for transparency by filing the same types of reports that other, perhaps more reputable, firms are required to do.


   Example of a Penny Stock  

Most penny stocks don’t trade on major market exchanges. However, there are some large companies, based on market capitalization, that trade below $5 per share on the main exchanges like the Nasdaq.



One example of a penny stock listed on the Nasdaq is Catalyst Pharmaceuticals Inc. (CPRX), a small biopharmaceutical company based in Coral Gables, Florida. As of Jan. 7, 2021, the stock price is $3.55 per share. In the last 12 months, the share price has fluctuated between $2 and $5. On Aug. 10, 2020, the stock closed at $4.26; however, the next day the price fell to $3.34 a drop of nearly 22%.



Although there can be sizable gains in trading penny stocks, there are also equal or larger risks of losing a significant amount of an investment in a short period.




Where Do You Buy Penny Stocks?
Penny stocks are traded on the OTC Bulletin Board (OTCBB) or the OTC Markets Group. They are also available to trade through a brokerage account, such as Fidelity or Charles Schwab.




How Do You Buy Penny Stocks on Fidelity?
You can buy penny stocks on Fidelity by searching for companies that trade for less than $5 per share. Note that those trading penny stocks must first submit a form acknowledging that they understand the risks of penny stock trading.




How Do You Find Penny Stocks on Robinhood?
You can find penny stocks on Robinhood using the search function, and setting a filter for only those companies trading for less than $5 per share. Note that since Robinhood does not charge commissions, penny stock trades can be potentially more profitable than a commission-based broker.


   The Bottom Line  

Penny stocks refer to shares in companies with a low price and low trading volume. Because these markets have low liquidity, there is also high volatility. This means more opportunities for large profits—or losses.
What Is a Pension Plan?  

A pension plan is an employee benefit that commits the employer to make regular contributions to a pool of money set aside to fund payments made to eligible employees after they retire. In the United States, traditional pension plans, or defined-benefit plans, have become increasingly rare and replaced by retirement benefits that are less costly to employers, such as the 401(k) retirement savings plan.





Key Takeaways

A pension plan is a retirement plan that requires an employer to contribute to a pool of funds set aside for a worker's future benefit.A defined benefit plan guarantees a set monthly payment for life or a lump sum payment at retirement.A defined contribution plan creates an investment account that grows throughout the employee's working years. Pension funds are funded by an employer, and 401k plans are funded mainly through employee contributions.












Investopedia / Ryan Oakley


   Understanding Pension Plans  

A pension plan requires contributions by the employer and may allow additional contributions by the employee. The employee contributions are deducted from wages. The employer may also match a portion of the worker’s annual contributions up to a specific percentage or dollar amount. There are two main types of pension plans: the defined benefit and the defined-contribution plan.


  The Defined-Benefit Plan  

In a defined-benefit plan, the employer guarantees that the employee will receive a specific monthly payment after retiring and for life, regardless of the performance of the underlying investment pool. The employer is thus liable for pension payments to the retiree in a dollar amount typically determined by a formula based on earnings and years of service.



If the assets in the pension plan account cannot pay all of the benefits, the company is liable for the remainder. Defined-benefit employer-sponsored pension plans date from the 1870s. The American Express Company established the first pension plan in 1875. At their height in the 1980s, they covered 38% of all private-sector workers.


  The Defined-Contribution Plan  

In a defined contribution plan, the employee makes contributions, which may be matched by the employer. The final benefit to the employee depends on the investment performance of the plan. The company’s liability ends when the total contributions are expended.



The 401(k) plan is a defined-contribution pension plan, although the term "pension plan" is commonly used to refer to the traditional defined benefit. The defined contribution plan is less expensive for a company to sponsor, and the long-term costs are easier to estimate. They also take the company off the hook for future additional costs beyond agreed contributions.



For this reason, a growing number of private companies are moving to the defined contribution plan. The best-known defined contribution plans are the 401(k), and its equivalent for non-profit employees, the 403(b).


  Variations  

Some companies offer both types of plans. They even allow participants to roll over 401(k) balances into defined-benefit plans. There is another variation, the pay-as-you-go pension plan. Set up by the employer, these may be wholly funded by the employee, who can opt for salary deductions or lump sum contributions, which are generally not permitted on 401(k) plans. They are similar to 401(k) plans but rarely offer a company match. 



A pay-as-you-go pension plan is different from a pay-as-you-go funding formula. Current workers’ contributions are used to fund current beneficiaries. Social Security is an example of a pay-as-you-go program.





Defined-Benefit Plan

Specifies exactly how much retirement income an employee receives once they retire
Employer contributions often not capped at 25% of pay
Annual contribution often does not have dollar limit
Administration cost is often higher



Defined-Contribution Plan

Specifies exactly how much each party must contribute to a plan to receive an unknown amount at retirement
Employer contributions often capped at 25% of pay
Annual contribution often has dollar limit per person
Administration cost is often lower





   Pension Plans: Factoring in ERISA  

The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) is a federal law designed to protect retirement assets. The law establishes guidelines that retirement plan fiduciaries must follow to protect the assets of private-sector employees.



Companies that provide retirement plans are referred to as plan sponsors (fiduciaries), and ERISA requires each company to provide a specific level of information to eligible employees. Plan sponsors provide details on investment options and worker contributions matched by the company.



Employees must understand vesting, the amount of time to begin to accumulate and earn the right to pension assets. Vesting is based on the number of years of service and other factors.


   Pension Plans: Vesting  

Enrollment in a defined-benefit plan is usually automatic within one year of employment, although vesting can be immediate or spread out over as many as seven years. Leaving a company before retirement may result in losing some or all pension benefits.



With defined contribution plans, an individual's contributions are 100% vested as soon as they are paid in. If your employer matches those contributions or gives you company stock as part of a benefits package, it may set up a schedule under which a certain percentage is handed over to you each year until you are "fully vested."



Just because retirement contributions are fully vested doesn’t mean you’re allowed to make withdrawals, however.






Vesting terms will vary from employer to employer. Contact your Human Resources department to understand what your current vesting terms are.


   Are Pension Plans Taxable?  

Most employer-sponsored pension plans are qualified, meaning they meet Internal Revenue Code 401(a) and Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) requirements. That gives them their tax-advantaged status for both employers and employees.



Contributions employees make to the plan come "off the top" of their paychecks—that is, are taken out of the employee's gross income. That effectively reduces the employee's taxable income, and the amount they owe the IRS come tax day. Funds placed in a retirement account then grow at a tax-deferred rate, meaning no tax is due on the funds as long as they remain in the account.



Both types of plans allow the worker to defer tax on the retirement plan’s earnings until withdrawals begin. This tax treatment allows the employee to reinvest dividend income, interest income, and capital gains, all of which generate a much higher rate of return over the years before retirement.



Upon retirement, when the account holder starts withdrawing funds from a qualified pension plan, federal income taxes are due. Some states will tax the money, too.



If you contributed money in after-tax dollars, your pension or annuity withdrawals will be only partially taxable. Partially taxable qualified pensions are taxed under the Simplified Method.


   Can Companies Change Plans?  

Yes. Some companies are keeping their traditional defined-benefit plans but are freezing their benefits, meaning that after a certain point, workers will no longer accrue greater payments, no matter how long they work for the company or how large their salary grows.



When a pension plan provider decides to implement or modify the plan, the covered employees almost always receive credit for any qualifying work performed prior to the change. The extent to which past work is covered varies from plan to plan.



When applied in this way, the plan provider must cover this cost retroactively for each employee in a fair and equal way over the course of his or her remaining service years.


   Pension Plan vs. Pension Funds  

When a defined-benefit plan is made up of pooled contributions from employers, unions, or other organizations, it is commonly referred to as a pension fund.



Managed by professional fund managers on behalf of a company and its employees, pension funds can control vast amounts of capital and are among the largest institutional investors in many nations. Their actions can dominate the stock markets in which they are invested.



Pension funds are typically exempt from capital gains tax. Earnings on their investment portfolios are tax-deferred or tax-exempt.



A pension fund provides a fixed, preset benefit for employees upon retirement, helping workers plan their future spending. The employer makes the most contributions and cannot retroactively decrease pension fund benefits.



Voluntary employee contributions may be allowed as well. Since benefits do not depend on asset returns, benefits remain stable in a changing economic climate. Businesses can contribute more money to a pension fund and deduct more from their taxes than with a defined contribution plan.



A pension fund helps subsidize early retirement for promoting specific business strategies. However, a pension plan is more complex and costly to establish and maintain than other retirement plans. Employees have no control over the investment decisions. In addition, an excise tax applies if the minimum contribution requirement is not satisfied or if excess contributions are made to the plan.



An employee’s payout depends on the final salary and length of employment with the company. No loans or early withdrawals are available from a pension fund. In-service distributions are not allowed to a participant before age 59 1/2. Taking early retirement generally results in a smaller monthly payout.


   Pension Plans vs. 401(k)  

A pension plan and 401(k) can both be used to invest money for retirement. However, each vehicle has its strengths and weaknesses.



While a pension plan is often primarily funded by an employer, a 401(k) is mostly funded by an employee. Employees can choose contribution amounts into a 401(k) with potentially matched funds from employers based on IRS contribution limits. A 401(k) is a defined-contribution plan, while a pension may be a defined-benefit plan.



Under a 401(k) plan, investors often have greater control of their retirement plan including what investments their retirement savings are put towards as well as how much to contribute towards retirement. On the other hand, pension plans are more suitable for investors who wanted a guaranteed fixed income for life.



Another key difference between a pension plan and 401(k) is the portability. When an employee leaves a company, they can take their 401(k) with them by rolling over the balance into an individual retirement account (IRA). Alternatively, when an employee leaves a company in which they have a vested pension benefit, the employee must keep track of their pension benefit after they have left the company. Then, when the individual is ready to retire, they must apply for the pension benefits.





Pension Plans

Risk is placed on employer to guarantee and manage funds
Set income for life is guaranteed
Employers have greater control over investments and strategy
May have longer vesting period
Can not be immediately retained or rolled to different retirement account when leaving company



401(k) Plans

Risk is placed on employee to oversee and manage funds
No guarantee of any benefits/stable income
Employees have greater control over investments and strategy
May have shorter vesting period
Can be immediately retained and rolled into different retirement account when leaving company





   Monthly Annuity or Lump Sum?  

With a defined-benefit plan, you usually have two choices when it comes to distribution: periodic (usually monthly) payments for the rest of your life, or lump-sum distribution.



Some plans allow participants to do both; that is, they can take some of the money in a lump sum and use the rest to generate periodic payments. In any case, there will likely be a deadline for deciding, and the decision will be final. There are several things to consider when choosing between a monthly annuity and a lump sum. 


  Annuity  

Monthly annuity payments are typically offered as a choice of a single-life annuity for the retiree-only for life, or as a joint and survivor annuity for the retiree and spouse. The latter pays a lesser amount each month (typically 10% less), but the payouts continue until the surviving spouse passes away.



Some people decide to take the single life annuity. When the employee dies, the pension payout stops, but a large tax-free death benefit is paid out to the surviving spouse, which can be invested.



Can your pension fund ever run out of money? Theoretically, yes. But if your pension fund doesn’t have enough money to pay you what it owes you, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) could pay a portion of your monthly annuity, up to a legally defined limit.



For 2022, the monthly maximum PBGC guarantee for a straight-life annuity for a 65-year-old retiree is $6,204.55. Meanwhile, the PGBC maximum monthly guarantee for joint and 50% survivor annuity is for a 65-year-old retiree is $5,584.10. Of course, PBGC payments may not be as much as you would have received from your original pension plan.



Annuities usually pay at a fixed rate. They may or may not include inflation protection. If not, the amount you get is set from retirement on. This can reduce the real value of your payments each year, depending on the rate of inflation at the time.


  Lump-Sum  

If you take a lump sum, you avoid the potential (if unlikely) danger of your pension plan going broke. Plus, you can invest the money, keeping it working for you—and possibly earning a better interest rate, too. If there is money left when you die, you can pass it along as part of your estate.



On the downside, there's no guaranteed lifetime income. It’s up to you to make the money last.



And unless you roll the lump sum into an IRA or other tax-sheltered accounts, the whole amount will be immediately taxed and could push you into a higher tax bracket.



If your defined-benefit plan is with a public-sector employer, your lump-sum distribution may only be equal to your contributions. With a private-sector employer, the lump sum is usually the present value of the annuity (or more precisely, the total of your expected lifetime annuity payments discounted to today's dollars).



Of course, you can always use a lump-sum distribution to purchase an immediate annuity on your own, which could provide a monthly income stream, including inflation protection. As an individual purchaser, however, your income stream will probably not be as large as it would with an annuity from your original defined-benefit pension fund.


  Which Yields More Money: Lump-Sum or Annuity?  

With just a few assumptions and a small math exercise, you can determine which choice yields the largest cash payout.



You know the present value of a lump-sum payment, of course. To figure out which makes better financial sense, you need to estimate the present value of annuity payments. To figure out the discount or future expected interest rate for the annuity payments, think about how you might invest the lump sum payment and then use that interest rate to discount back the annuity payments.



A reasonable approach to selecting the discount rate would be to assume that the lump sum recipient invests the payout in a diversified investment portfolio of 60% stocks and 40% bonds. Using historical averages of 9% for stocks and 5% for bonds, the discount rate would be 7.40%.



Imagine that Sarah was offered $80,000 today or $10,000 per year for the next 10 years. On the surface, the choice appears clear: $80,000 versus $100,000 ($10,000 x 10 years). Take the annuity.



However, the choice is impacted by the expected return (or discount rate) Sarah expects to receive on the $80,000 over the next 10 years. Using the discount rate of 7.40%, calculated above, the annuity payments are worth $68,955.33 when discounted back to the present, whereas the lump-sum payment today is $80,000. Since $80,000 is greater than $68,955.33, In this case, Sarah would take the lump-sum payment.



This simplified example does not factor in adjustments for inflation or taxes, and historical averages do not guarantee future returns.






There are financial calculators online to help make the decision on whether to take a lump sum vs. monthly distributions; otherwise, a financial advisor can help guide the decision.


  Other Deciding Factors  

There are other basic factors that must almost always be taken into consideration in any pension maximization analysis. These variables include:



Your ageYour current health and projected longevityYour current financial situationThe projected return for a lump-sum investmentYour risk toleranceInflation protectionEstate planning considerations




How Does a Pension Work?
Defined-benefit pension plans work by an employer guaranteeing a specific amount of retirements to be had if an employee works for a company for a designated amount of time. Both the employer and employee usually contribute to the pension plan, though the employer is the pension plan administrator who manages the fund. When the employee retires (whether they are still with the same company or not), they may file a claim for defined-benefit pension benefits.




How Long Does It Take to Get Vested Under a Pension Plan?
Different entities will have different benefit schedules including when employees are vested. Vesting can be immediate, but it may kick in partially from year to year for up to seven years of employment. If you contribute money to the plan, it's yours if you leave. If your employer kicks in money, it's not all yours until you are fully vested.




Is a Pension Better Than a 401k?
A pension plan is a better retirement vehicle for people who prefer have a guaranteed, defined amount of benefits when they retire. Though employees typically have less control over their money and sacrifice upside earning potential under a pension plan, it is usually a safer option, and the benefits an employee earns is paid out to them for life.




Who Gets a Pension?
To get a pension, an employee has to work for a company that offers a pension plan. This can be a private company, though a majority of pension plans are now offered by government institutions and agencies. In addition, people must often meet a vesting requirement by working for a company for a specific amount of time to quality for pension plan benefits.


   The Bottom Line  

A pension plan is a retirement vehicle that offers employees the opportunity to earn defined benefits at retirement. Different companies can have different features within their pension plan, but employers often fund a majority of pension plans while guaranteeing employees specific retirement benefits based on their tenure and salary. As opposed to a defined-contribution plan such as a 401(k), pension plans are often defined-benefit where the employee can receive a fixed payment for life once they retire.
What Is Per Capita?  

Per capita is a Latin term that translates to "by head." Per capita means the average per person and is often used in place of "per person" in statistical observances. The phrase can be used for almost any kind of population description but is common when discussing economic data. This could include a country's:



Gross domestic product (GDP)Gross national product (GNP)Income





Key Takeaways

Per capita is a term used in economic and statistical analysis that means per person.Per capita is used when comparing a certain economic metric to a population.The most common instances of per capita are gross domestic product (GDP) per capita and income per capita.Per capita information provides more granular data than just aggregate information. It is often used as an apples-to-apples comparison between countries with different population sizes.Per capita information is often contrasted with median information, which provides a clearer picture as it considers outliers.












Investopedia / Tara Anand


   Understanding Per Capita  

Per capita is a term primarily used in economics and statistics to determine how certain metrics apply to a population. It is most often used in reference to metrics of a country and how that metric applies to the population of that country. The most common uses of per capita are gross domestic product (GDP) per capita and income per capita.



For national economic indicators, such as gross domestic product (GDP) or gross national product (GNP), the total figure is certainly of interest. However, the per capita basis will give the analyst more granular information and allows for better apples-to-apples comparisons across different countries.






To calculate per capita, take the number you are interested in (e.g. a country's GDP) and divide it by the population being analyzed.


   Per Capita vs. Median  

In contrast to per capita measures, median numbers, such as those for income, provide an arguably more accurate picture of how much the residents of a particular country or area are likely to earn.



The median income is the income level in the very middle of a list of incomes. Exactly half of the people considered earn above the median income figure while the other half earn below that number. Real median household income in the United States in 2021 was $70,800, whereas per capita income was a bit lower at $62,200.



Per capita expresses the average number for all of the citizens of a particular country or area. Therefore, it can be a misleading number because it includes everyone from infants to senior citizens, and fails to account for statistical outliers. The median income in this instance will take into account any outliers.


   Per Capita and Poverty  

The World Bank issues data on total GDP and GDP per capita but each statistic can provide a conflicting perspective on the economic state of a country and the wealth of its people.



According to some economists, a country’s aggregate economic growth, or its overall GDP, is not what matters when the concern is the poverty level of individuals in a country. For example, if an outlet reports that the world's GDP grew by 3%, it may sound like great news, but it would fail to take into consideration that the world's population grew by 1.5%, making the GDP number less impressive.



For countries where the population is not increasing rapidly, the difference between GDP per capita growth and total GDP growth is minimal. However, for countries with rapidly growing populations such as those in Africa and South Asia, reporting GDP growth can be highly misleading because a country can show GDP growth overall but a decline in per capita growth. Afghanistan has been used as an example where over the past several years the nation's economy has been growing overall but declined on a per capita basis.


   Example of Per Capita  

In economic analysis, per capita is also used as an apples-to-apples comparison between countries, as all countries have different populations.



For example, U.S. gross domestic product (GDP) was just over $20 trillion in 2021 according to the CIA World Factbook (the latest information available from the CIA). The United States' population in the same period was approximately 337.3 million. That results in a GDP per capita of $59,500.



China is now the second-largest economy with a GDP of around $17.5 trillion in 2021—or 12,5% lower than the United States'. However, China has far more people than the United States, and so the per capita GDP for China is just $16,400. Thus, using per capita GDP shows that most Chinese citizens are still earning far less than the average American despite the country's aggregate output.




What Does Per Capita Mean in Latin?
In Latin per capita means "by heads" or "for each head".




How Do You Determine Per Capita Figures?
To calculate per capita, simply divide the figure or value in question by the size of the population.




What Is the World's Total GDP Per Capita?
According to the World Bank, the total world's GDP per capita was $12,263 in 2021. With 7.9 billion people in the world in 2021, that amounts to a total global GDP of around $97 trillion.


   The Bottom Line  

Per capita is a way of averaging values on a per-person basis to better understand how each individual shares in aggregated figures. In economics, GDP and income per capita are used to understand a country's average level of prosperity and for making like comparisons across countries. You can also use per capita measures of non-economic data, such as alcohol consumption per capita or car crashes per capita.
What Is GDP Per Capita?  

Gross domestic product (GDP) per capita is an economic metric that breaks down a country's economic output per person. Economists use GDP per capita to determine how prosperous countries are based on their economic growth. GDP per capita is calculated by dividing the GDP of a nation by its population. Countries with a higher GDP per capita tend to be those that are industrial, developed countries.





Key Takeaways

Gross domestic product per capita measures a country's economic output per person and is calculated by dividing the GDP of a country by its population.It is a global measure for gauging the prosperity of nations and is used by economists, along with GDP, to analyze the prosperity of a country based on its economic growth.It is often analyzed alongside GDP, which allows economists to monitor the productivity of their own country with others.Analyzing global gross domestic product per capita provides insight into global economic prosperity and developments.Small, rich countries and more developed industrial countries tend to have the highest GDP per capita.


   Understanding GDP Per Capita  

GDP per capita is a global measure for gauging the prosperity of nations and is used by economists to analyze the prosperity of a country based on its economic growth.



There are a few ways to analyze a country’s wealth and prosperity. GDP per capita is the most universal because its components are regularly tracked on a global scale, providing ease of calculation and usage. Income per capita is another measure for global prosperity analysis, though it is less broadly used.



At its most basic interpretation, GDP per capita shows how much economic production value can be attributed to each individual citizen. Alternatively, this translates to a measure of national wealth since GDP market value per person also readily serves as a prosperity measure.


   GDP Per Capita vs. Gross Domestic Product (GDP)  

GDP itself is the primary measure of a country's economic productivity. A country's GDP shows the market value of goods and services it produces. In the United States, the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) reports GDP every quarter.



Economists watch this quarterly report closely for the quarter-over-quarter and annual growth figures that can assist them in analyzing the overall health of the economy. Legislators use GDP when making fiscal policy decisions. GDP can also influence central bankers when they are deciding on the course of future monetary policy.



GDP per capita is often analyzed alongside GDP. Economists use this metric for insight into both their own country's domestic productivity as well as the productivity of other countries. GDP per capita considers both a country's GDP and its population. Therefore, it can be important to understand how each factor contributes to the overall result and how each factor is affecting GDP per capita growth.





$60,852

Real GDP per capita for Q2 2023—a 0.40% increase from the previous quarter and a 1.95% increase from the same period the previous year.


   Applications of GDP Per Capita  

Governments can use GDP per capita to understand how the economy is growing with its population. GDP per capita analysis on a national level can provide insights into a country’s domestic population influence.



It is important to look at each variable’s overall contribution to understand how an economy is growing or contracting in terms of its people. There can be several numerical relationships that affect GDP per capita.



If a country’s GDP per capita is growing with a stable population level it can potentially be the result of technological progressions that are producing more with the same population level. Some countries may have high GDP per capita but a small population which usually means they have built up a self-sufficient economy based on an abundance of special resources.


  Negative GDP Per Capita  

A nation may have consistent economic growth but if its population is growing faster than its GDP,  GDP per capita growth will be negative. This is not a problem for most established economies, as even a tepid pace of economic growth can still outpace their population growth rates.



However, countries with low levels of GDP per capita to begin with—including many nations in Africa—can have rapidly increasing populations with little GDP growth, resulting in a steady erosion of living standards.


  GDP and Population Growth  

Global analysis of GDP per capita helps provide comparable insight into economic prosperity and economic developments across the globe. Both GDP and population are factors in the per capita equation. This means countries with the highest GDP may or may not have the highest GDP per capita.



Countries may also see a significant increase in GDP per capita as they become more advanced through technological progressions. Technology can be a revolutionary factor that helps countries increase per capita rankings with a stable population level.



According to World Bank data, global GDP per capita increased by an average of 2.3% in 2022. Economies such as China and India have achieved GDP per capita growth rates well above the global average in the 21st century despite their populations of over a billion people apiece, thanks to the financial reforms initiated by China in the late 1970s and India in the mid-1990s.






   Countries With the Highest GDP Per Capita  

Below are the top 10 countries with the highest GDP per capita in 2023, according to the International Monetary Fund (IMF).









GDP Per Capita (in thousands)




Country
GDP Per Capita (USD)


Luxembourg
$132.37


Ireland
$114.58


Norway
$101.10


Switzerland
$98.77


Singapore
$91.10


Qatar
$83.89


United States
$80.03


Iceland
$75.18


Denmark
$68.83


Australia
$64.96






Many of the countries on the list have relatively small populations. Luxembourg, at the top of the list, has one of the smallest populations, with about 660,000 people in 2023. Most of the small population countries are energy exporters, regional financial centers, and export business powerhouses.






   Countries With the Lowest GDP Per Capita  

These are the 10 countries with the lowest GDP per capita, according to the IMF.









GDP Per Capita (in thousands)




Country
GDP Per Capita ($)


Burundi
$249.22


Sierra Leone
$415.09


South Sudan
$467.07


Malawi
$496.14


Central African Republic
$534.48


Madagascar
$536.47


Somalia
$544.39


Yemen
$573.19


Mozambique
$587.33


Niger
$613.93





   GDP Per Capita Forecasts  

The IMF provides a regular outlook on global growth with insights on both GDP and GDP per capita updated in its data mapper. It expects little change in the rankings of the top ten countries as sluggish growth data is trending across the globe.



The IMF expects growth in the global economy to slow down to 3.0% in both 2023 and 2024 from 3.5%. The drop will be due to the efforts of central banks to fight ongoing inflation by increasing interest rates. Global inflation is expected to drop to 6.8% in 2023 and 5.2% in 2024 from 8.7% in 2022. The IMF says it expects a gradual decline in core inflation.




How Do You Calculate GDP Per Capita?
The formula to calculate GDP per capita is a country's gross domestic product divided by its population. This calculation reflects a nation's standard of living.




Which Countries Have the Highest GDP Per Capita?
The countries with the highest GDP per capita tend to be those that are the most industrialized and developed. According to the International Monetary Fund, the three countries with the highest GDP per capita are Luxembourg, Ireland, and Norway.




What Is the Difference Between GDP Per Capita and Per Capita Income?
GDP per capita measures the economic output of a nation per person. It seeks to determine the prosperity of a nation by economic growth per person in that nation. Per capita income measures the amount of money earned per person in a nation. This metric seeks to evaluate the average per-person income for a given region in order to determine the standard of living and quality of life of a population.




Which Country Has the Lowest GDP Per Capita?
Of the countries for which the IMF publishes data, Burundi has the lowest GDP per capita. It is followed by Sierra Leone and South Sudan.


   The Bottom Line  

GDP per capita is a popular metric for the average prosperity and well-being of a country. Unlike some other measures of economic productivity, it takes population size into account, allowing easy comparisons between countries with different sizes.
What Is Per Stirpes?  

Per stirpes is a legal term that may be included in a last will and testament to explain who will inherit assets if a beneficiary passes away before the testator, the person who has created the will. With a per stirpes distribution, the beneficiary's share of the estate will pass to the beneficiary's descendants or heirs.



While the term per stirpes is commonly used to refer to an individual's assets under a will, it is sometimes used in beneficiary designations for individual retirement accounts (IRAs).





Key Takeaways

Per stirpes stipulates that a beneficiary's heirs receive the inheritance should the beneficiary die before the testator.The term refers to every person down a branch of a family tree.Children may represent their parents if a parent passes before the decedent.


   How Per Stirpes Works  

Per stirpes, Latin for “by branch,” refers to every person down a family tree beginning from another person. For example, everyone below a parent, such as their children and their great-grandchildren, is included in a branch.



Per stirpes often appear in wills and retirement accounts to define asset distributions so that each branch of a family tree is treated by the testator or account owner’s wishes. Children may stand as representatives of their parents if a parent passes before the decedent. Spouses are not considered in per stirpes distribution.


   Per Stirpes vs. Per Capita  

Per capita means “by the heads.” Also called “share and share alike,” property is divided equally among surviving descendants in the same generation nearest the testator. The estate holder names each recipient individually or determines which group receives the assets, such as all the estate holder's children, grandchildren, or both. A deceased person’s share is not set aside but is mingled with the estate and divided among the other recipients.



For example, Alejandra specifies her estate be divided per capita among her three children, Abigail, Stephanie, and Oliver. Abigail has one child, George. Oliver has two children—Hanaj and Anil. If Abigail dies, her portion remains with Alejandra's other assets and is divided equally among her two living children, Stephanie and Oliver. George does not inherit anything, nor do Hanaj and Anil.






If you die without a will, your estate goes to your heirs according to the laws of the state in which you live.


   Per Stirpes Example  

Now consider the same example, but this time Alejandra's will specifies her estate be divided per stirpes among her three children, Abigail, Stephanie, and Oliver. Abigail has one child, George. Oliver has two children—Hanaj and Anil. If Abigail dies, her portion will go to George, the next person on Abigail's branch of the family tree.



Hanaj and Anil again do not inherit anything.


   Criticism of Per Stirpes  

Creating a will is one of the most important processes a person can go through; unfortunately, it can also be one of the most stressful and confusing. Occasionally, the use of outdated terms such as per stirpes can only create more confusion, especially when the term isn't used properly.



For example, some lawyers have allowed their clients to use the phrase "to my children, per stirpes." While this may sound straightforward, it is technically incorrect. Instead, the will should read "to my descendants, per stirpes."



Furthermore, different jurisdictions have slightly different definitions of the term. This is why it's critical every lawyer takes the time to ensure their client doesn't have any incorrect preconceived notions about the term's meaning.




Which Is Better: Per Stirpes or Per Capita?
With a per capita arrangement, each beneficiary is given an equal share of the distribution. If one of the beneficiaries dies before the testator, the distribution remains with the other beneficiaries, and the descendants of that beneficiary are not included. Ultimately, the feelings of the testator about their family dynamic should decide whether per stirpes or per capita is used.




What Is the Opposite of Per Stirpes?
Per stirpes stipulates that should a beneficiary predecease the testator, that beneficiary's share of the inheritance goes to their heirs. Per capita takes the opposite approach: All inheritance is divided equally amongst the testator's beneficiaries.




How Do You Write Per Stirpes in a Will?
To use per stirpes correctly, you should make the gift to a person's descendants, like "to [person's] descendants, per stirpes."  In general, the person should be one person, not a class of people, and the word "descendants" (or "issue") must always appear.




How Many Generations Does Per Stirpes Cover?
Per stirpes determines that in the event of an "out of order" death, the inheritance which would have been awarded to the beneficiary that passed away is given to that beneficiary's descendants, thus per stirpes covers the grandchildren of the testator.




Is Per Stirpes a Good Idea?
Per stirpes, used more commonly than per capita, is a great way to ensure the descendants of your original beneficiaries are protected in the event of an untimely death.


   The Bottom Line  

Although distributing a loved one's assets after their death can be very stressful, making sure your will has very clear terms—and that those terms reflect your true intentions—can make the process much less difficult for your descendants. Because some jurisdictions have slightly different definitions of per stirpes, you must communicate your intentions to a legal professional.
What Is Perceived Value?  

In marketing terminology, perceived value is the customers' evaluation of the merits of a product or service, and its ability to meet their needs and expectations, especially in comparison with its peers.



Marketing professionals try to influence consumers' perceived value of a product by describing the attributes that make it superior to the competition.





Key Takeaways

Perceived value is a customer's own perception of a product or service's merit or desirability to them, especially in comparison to a competitor's product.Perceived value is measured by the price the public is willing to pay for a good or service.The marketing of a product or service involves attempting to influence and increase its perceived value, which can emphasize qualities such as its aesthetic design, accessibility, or convenience.


   Understanding Perceived Value  

Perceived value comes down to the price the public is willing to pay for a good or service. Even a snap decision made in a store aisle involves an analysis of a product's ability to fulfill a need and provide satisfaction compared to other products under different brand names.



The work of the marketing professional is to enhance the perceived value of the brand they are selling.



The pricing of products takes perceived value into consideration. In some cases, the price of a product or service may have more to do with its emotional appeal than with the actual cost of production.






Even a snap decision made in a store aisle involves an analysis of a product's perceived ability to fulfill a need and provide satisfaction.


   Types of Perceived Utility Value  

Marketers who want to influence the perceived value of a product define its attributes in terms of its utility, or the extra benefits and values that the customer expects to get in using it. The perceived utility of many products and services may differ widely even among similar or virtually identical products.



There are five types of utilities that companies aim to create through marketing campaigns for products:



Form utility is the aesthetic appeal of the physical design of a product. Even a utilitarian product like a frying pan can increase in perceived value because of its appealing design.
Task utility is the value attached to a service that saves the customer time, effort, or money. Car detailing shops and laundry services offer utility value.
Time utility refers to the ease of access to a service or product, such as 24-hour service compared to 9-to-5 hours.
Place utility is the convenience of the location, like a fast-food outlet that's around the corner compared to a restaurant that's 20 miles away.
Possession utility refers to the ease of purchasing the product. A department store that features online ordering, home delivery, or in-store pickup is aiming for possession utility.


   Special Considerations of Perceived Value  

A company's brand is meant to communicate a set of expectations associated with its products or services. That's why a well-established brand can command a higher price than its generic equivalents. Advil and Motrin both contain ibuprofen, but both brands are priced higher than generic ibuprofen.



Luxury goods, however, carry the perception of value to another level with the addition of prestige. The highest value of luxury goods is not associated with their utility but with the prestige that owning and using it entails. The perceived value of a Rolex watch is not based on its functionality but with its image as a mark of personal success and refined taste.



At the opposite end of the scale, some brands are marketed as smart bargains. The perceived value of a product may be its low price in comparison with competitors of equal quality.
What Is Percentage Change?  

Percentage change is used for many purposes in finance, often to represent the price change of a stock over time, expressed as a percentage. The formula used to calculate this change as a percentage is a simple mathematical concept that varies slightly depending on whether the change is an increase or a decrease.



Read on to learn how to calculate percentage change.





Key Takeaways

Percentage change is used for many purposes in finance, most notably to track the price change of stocks and market indexes.Change as a percentage is also used to compare the values of different currencies.Percentage change also can be found in balance sheets with comparative financial statements.How to calculate percentage change differs slightly depending on whether it is an increase or a decrease.


   How Percentage Changes Work  

Percentage change can be applied to any quantity that you measure over time. In finance, the percentage change formula is often used to track the prices of both large market indexes and individual securities and compare the values of different currencies.



Balance sheets with comparative financial statements will generally include the prices of specific assets at different points in time along with the percentage changes over the accompanying time periods. For example, a company might use percentage change to illustrate revenue growth year over year (YOY) in its balance sheet.



Companies use percentage change to track and report trends in their revenues or profits. For instance, for the third quarter of 2020, Starbucks reported a 38% drop in net revenues over the same quarter in 2019 “due to adverse impact of COVID-19.” By the fourth quarter of 2020, despite store closures and reduced hours, net revenues were down 8% from the prior year. Subsequent quarterly reports show the slow recovery of Starbucks revenues—and positive percentage changes in net revenues—as the business disruptions caused by COVID-19 diminished.






Percentage change, like many other formulas used in finance, can be calculated using spreadsheets, such as Microsoft Excel or Google Sheets.


   Formula and Calculation of Percentage Change  

To calculate a percentage increase, first work out the difference (increase) between the two numbers you are comparing:












Increase


=


New Number


−


Original Number







\begin{aligned}\text{Increase}=\text{New Number}-\text{Original Number}\end{aligned}


Increase=New Number−Original Number​



Next, divide the increase by the original number and multiply the answer by 100:












Percentage Increase


=



(



Increase


Original Number



)



×


100.







\begin{aligned}\text{Percentage Increase}=\left(\frac{\text{Increase}}{\text{Original Number}}\right)\times100.\end{aligned}


Percentage Increase=(Original NumberIncrease​)×100.​



This expresses the change as a percentage—i.e., the percentage change.



To calculate a percentage decrease, first work out the difference (decrease) between the two numbers you are comparing.












Decrease


=


Original Number


−


New Number







\begin{aligned}\text{Decrease}=\text{Original Number}-\text{New Number}\end{aligned}


Decrease=Original Number−New Number​



Next, divide the decrease by the original number and multiply the answer by 100.












Percentage Decrease


=



(



Decrease


Original Number



)



×


100







\begin{aligned}\text{Percentage Decrease}=\left(\frac{\text{Decrease}}{\text{Original Number}}\right)\times 100\end{aligned}


Percentage Decrease=(Original NumberDecrease​)×100​



The result expresses the change as a percentage—i.e., the percentage change.






If you only want to remember one formula, use the one for a positive increase. If you do, the result will be either positive or negative (if you use both formulas, the result is always positive), and that will tell you whether the percentage change is an increase (positive) or a decrease (negative).


   Uses of Percentage Change  

Different industries, companies, or investments may all benefit from analyzing how the percentage of a value differs from one period to the next. Here is a list of uses of percentage change that span a variety of implementations:



Measuring Investment Returns: The return on investment (ROI) for various assets, such as stocks, bonds, or mutual funds, is determined using percentage changes. This helps investors evaluate the success or performance of their assets over a certain time frame.
Analyzing Price Movements: Investors examine the price movements of stocks, commodities, or other financial instruments using percentage changes. This helps in the identification of trends, volatility, and prospective trading opportunities.
Evaluating Portfolio Success: Investors can assess the success of their total investment portfolio by computing the percentage changes of individual assets within a portfolio. They are able to make well-informed judgments about asset allocation and rebalancing thanks to this analysis.
Comparing Financial Measures: Over time, financial measures like revenue growth, profits growth, or profit margins are compared and analyzed using percentage changes. This helps understand the financial performance and health of businesses.
Assessing Volatility: The risk connected with investments is measured and assessed using percentage changes. Volatility, which is indicated by percentage fluctuations in asset values, helps investors in assessing future ups and downs and informing their risk-taking decisions.
Setting Benchmarking: The performance of an investment or a portfolio is measured against a benchmark such as an index or a particular industry average, and this may be done by setting a percentage change target. Investors can use it to ascertain if their holdings are outperforming or underperforming the market.
Managing Risk: When deciding on stop-loss levels or position sizes, percentage changes may be used to evaluate possible gains or losses based on percentage changes.


   Example of Calculating Percentage Change  

As an example of calculating percentage change, consider Grace, who bought shares of a stock at $35 per share on Jan. 1. On Feb. 1, the stock was worth $45.50 per share. By what percentage did Grace’s share value increase? 



To answer this question, first calculate the difference in price between the new and old numbers. $45.50 - $35 = $10.50 more. To work out the increase as a percentage, divide the increase by the original (January) number:













10.5


35



=


0.3







\begin{aligned}\frac{10.5}{35}=0.3\end{aligned}


3510.5​=0.3​Finally, to get the percentage, we multiply the answer by 100. This simply means moving the decimal place two columns to the right.












0.3


×


100


=


30







\begin{aligned}0.3\times100=30\end{aligned}


0.3×100=30​Grace’s stock increased by 30%.




How Do I Calculate Percentage Change?
If you are tracking a particular stock’s price increase, use the formula (New Price - Old Price)/Old Price and then multiply that number by 100. If the price decreased, use the formula (Old Price - New Price)/Old Price and multiply that number by 100. 




What Is a Balance Sheet, and How Does It Relate to Percentage Changes?
A balance sheet is a financial statement that companies use to report assets, liabilities, and shareholder equity. Balance sheets provide a snapshot of a company’s finances for a specific period of time, such as a quarter or a fiscal year.Many companies choose to analyze their balance sheet by seeing the percentage change in specific account balances from one period to the next. For example, a company can check it's immediate liquidity trend by seeing the percentage change in cash on hand across the last several years.




How Is Percentage Change Used in Finance?
Percentage change is often used in finance to track the value increase or decrease of a stock or large market indexes over time. It is also used to compare the values of different currencies.Companies also use percentage change in balance sheets to provide a comparative view of assets over different quarters or years. And they use percentage change in quarterly reports to report trends in their revenues over the same quarter in the prior year.


   The Bottom Line  

Percentage change is used to track the change in a number over time. That number can be anything from the price of a stock to the amount of money made by a business. It is often used on a company’s balance sheet to offer a quick indication of how performance has improved or declined from year to year or from yearly quarter to the same yearly quarter. It is also used to compare values among different currencies.



There are two formulas that express change as a percentage, one for an increase and one for a decrease, both of which will result in a positive number. You can also just use the formula for an increase. If you do, a positive result will indicate an increase, while a negative result will mean a decrease.
What Is the Percentage of Completion Method?  

The percentage of completion method is an accounting method in which the revenues and expenses of long-term contracts are recognized as a percentage of the work completed during the period. This is in contrast to the completed contract method, which defers the reporting of income and expenses until a project is completed. The percentage-of-completion method of accounting is common for the construction industry, but companies in other sectors also use the method.





Key Takeaways

The percentage of completion method reports revenues and expenses in terms of the work completed to date.This method can only be used if payment is assured and estimating completion is relatively straightforward.The percentage of completion method has been misused by some companies to boost short-term results.


   Understanding the Percentage of Completion Method  

The percentage of completion method of accounting requires the reporting of revenues and expenses on a period-by-period basis, as determined by the percentage of the contract that has been fulfilled. The current income and expenses are compared with the total estimated costs to determine the tax liability for the year. For example, a project that is 20% complete in year one and 35% complete in year two would only have the incremental 15% of the revenue recognized in the second year. The recognition of income and expenses on this work-in-progress basis applies to the income statement, but the balance sheet is handled the same way as the completed contract method.



There are two main conditions for the use of the percentage of completion method. First, collections by the company must be reasonably assured; second, the company must be able to reasonably estimate costs and the rate of project completion.


   Examples of the Percentage of Completion Method  

The percentage of completion accounting method is commonly used by construction firms that are contractors for buildings, energy facilities, public sector infrastructure, and other long-term physical projects. It has also been used by defense contractors (think nuclear submarines or aircraft carriers) and software developers whose projects represent a multi-year commitment of resources. For software developers, the product must be a significant custom-designed project for a client.



Fluor Corporation, a global engineering and construction firm, provides details about its use of the percentage of completion method in its 10-K filing under "Note 1 - Major Accounting Policies" of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. An analyst would learn that changes to total estimated contract costs or losses, if any, are recognized in the period in which they are determined by the company. Income recognized in excess of billed amounts is booked as a current asset under "contract work in progress" and billed amounts to clients in excess of income recognized to date are booked as a current liability under "advance billings on contracts."


   Potential for Abuse of the Percentage of Completion Method  

Percentage of completion method is vulnerable to abuse by unethical companies. Those who wish to engage in creative accounting can easily move around income and expenses from one period to another period, understating or overstating amounts. This game would not be sustainable, however, as Toshiba Corp. discovered in 2015. The infrastructure unit of the Japanese conglomerate understated operating costs by approximately 152 billion yen ($1.2 billion) between 2008 and 2014. Shortly after the scandal broke, the CEO was forced to resign, and half the Board of Directors stepped down.
What Is Perfect Competition?  

The term perfect competition refers to a theoretical market structure. Although perfect competition rarely occurs in real-world markets, it provides a useful model for explaining how supply and demand affect prices and behavior in a market economy.



Under perfect competition, there are many buyers and sellers, and prices reflect supply and demand. Companies earn just enough profit to stay in business and no more. If they were to earn excess profits, other companies would enter the market and drive profits down. 





Key Takeaways

Perfect competition is an ideal type of market structure where all producers and consumers have full and symmetric information and no transaction costs. There are a large number of producers and consumers competing with one another in this kind of environment. Perfect competition is theoretically the opposite of a monopolistic market.Since all real markets exist outside of the plane of the perfect competition model, each can be classified as imperfect.The opposite of perfect competition is imperfect competition, which exists when a market violates the abstract tenets of neoclassical pure or perfect competition.












Jessica Olah / Investopedia


   How Perfect Competition Works  

Perfect competition is a benchmark or ideal type to which real-life market structures can be compared. Perfect competition is theoretically the opposite of a monopoly, in which only a single firm supplies a good or service and that firm can charge whatever price it wants since consumers have no alternatives and it is difficult for would-be competitors to enter the marketplace.



In a perfect competition model, there are no monopolies. This kind of structure has a number of key characteristics, including:



All firms sell an identical product (the product is a commodity or homogeneous).
All firms are price takers (they cannot influence the market price of their products).
Market share has no influence on prices.
Buyers have complete or perfect information (in the past, present, and future) about the product being sold and the prices charged by each firm.
Capital resources and labor are perfectly mobile.
Firms can enter or exit the market without cost.



This can be contrasted with the more realistic imperfect competition, which exists whenever a market, hypothetical or real, violates the abstract tenets of neoclassical pure or perfect competition.



Since all real markets exist outside of the plane of the perfect competition model, each can be classified as imperfect. The contemporary theory of imperfect versus perfect competition stems from the Cambridge tradition of post-classical economic thought.


   Characteristics of Perfect Competition  

A perfectly-competitive market is defined by the following factors:


  A Large and Homogeneous Market   

There are a large number of buyers and sellers in a perfectly competitive market. The sellers are small firms, instead of large corporations capable of controlling prices through supply adjustments. They sell products with minimal differences in capabilities, features, and pricing. This ensures that buyers cannot distinguish between products based on physical attributes, such as size or color, or intangible values, such as branding.



A large population of both buyers and sellers ensures that supply and demand remain constant in this market. As such, buyers can easily substitute products made by one firm for another. 


  Perfect Information Availability    

Information about an industry's ecosystem and competition constitutes a significant advantage. For example, knowledge about component sourcing and supplier pricing can make or break the market for certain companies.



In certain knowledge and research-intensive industries, such as pharmaceuticals and technology, information about patents and research initiatives at competitors can help companies develop competitive strategies and build a moat around their products.






The availability of free and perfect information in a perfectly competitive market ensures that each firm can produce its goods or services at exactly the same rate and with the same production techniques as another one in the market.


  Absence of Controls    

Governments play a vital role in market formation for products by imposing regulations and price controls. They can control the entry and exit of firms into a market by setting up rules to function in the market. For example, the pharmaceutical industry has to contend with a roster of rules pertaining to the development, production, and sale of drugs.



In turn, these rules require big capital investments in the form of employees, such as lawyers and quality assurance personnel, and infrastructure, such as machinery to manufacture medicines. The cumulative costs add up and make it extremely expensive for companies to bring a drug to the market.



In comparison, the technology industry functions with relatively less oversight as compared to its pharma counterpart. Thus, entrepreneurs in this industry can start firms with less to zero capital, making it easy for individuals to start a company in the industry. 



Such controls do not exist in a perfectly competitive market. The entry and exit of firms in such a market are unregulated, and this frees them up to spend on labor and capital assets without restrictions and adjust their output in relation to market demands.


  Cheap and Efficient Transportation  

Cheap and efficient transportation is another characteristic of perfect competition. In this type of market, companies do not incur significant costs to transport goods. This helps reduce the product’s price and cuts back on delays in transporting goods. 


   Theory vs. Reality of Perfect Competition  

Real-world competition differs from this ideal primarily because of differentiation in production, marketing, and selling. For example, the owner of a small organic products shop can advertise extensively about the grain fed to the cows that made the manure that fertilized the non-GMO soybeans, thereby setting their product apart from competitors. This is what's called differentiation.



The first two criteria (homogeneous products and price takers) are far from realistic. Yet, for the second two criteria (information and mobility) the global tech and trade transformation is improving information and resource flexibility. While the reality is far from this theoretical model, the model is still helpful because of its ability to explain many real-life behaviors.






Companies seek to establish brand value through marketing around their differentiation. As such, they advertise to gain pricing power and market share.


   Barriers to Entry Prohibit Perfect Competition  

Many industries also have significant barriers to entry, such as high startup costs (as seen in the auto manufacturing industry) or strict government regulations (as seen in the utility industry), which limit the ability of firms to enter and exit such industries. And although consumer awareness has increased with the information age, there are still few industries where the buyer remains aware of all available products and prices.



Significant obstacles exist that prevent perfect competition from developing in the economy. The agricultural industry probably comes closest to exhibiting perfect competition because it is characterized by many small producers with virtually no ability to alter the selling price of their products.



The commercial buyers of agricultural commodities are generally very well-informed and, although agricultural production involves some barriers to entry, it is not particularly difficult to enter the marketplace as a producer.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Perfect Competition  

Perfect competition is an idealized framework for a market economy. While it provides a convenient model for how an economy works, it is not always accurate and has significant departures from the real-world economy. Like with other models, the value of a perfect competition framework is only accurate to the extent that it reflects actual conditions.



One notable feature of perfect competition is low profit margins. Since all consumers have access to the same products, they naturally gravitate towards the lowest prices. Firms cannot set themselves apart by charging a premium for higher-quality products and services. For instance, it would be impossible for a company like Apple (AAPL) to exist in a perfectly competitive market because its phones are more expensive than those of its competitors.



Another is the absence of innovation. The prospect of greater market share and setting themselves apart from the competition is an incentive for firms to innovate and make better products. But no firm possesses a dominant market share in perfect competition, meaning that the long-term profitability of their operations is zero.



Another disadvantage is the absence of economies of scale. Limited to zero profit margins means that companies will have less cash to invest in expanding their production capabilities. An expansion of production capabilities could potentially bring down costs for consumers and increase business profit margins. But the presence of several small firms cannibalizing the market for the same product prevents this and ensures that the average firm size remains small.




Pros and Cons of Perfect Competition

Pros

Provides a convenient framework for modeling market activity.
Demonstrates how producers are incentivized to provide lower prices.



Cons

The perfect competition model does not always reflect real-world market conditions.
The model does not account for geographical differences or variations between products.
The model does not account for how producers benefit from economies of scale.





   Do Firms Profit in Perfect Competition?  

Profits may be possible for brief periods in perfectly competitive markets. But the market’s dynamics cancel out the effects of positive or negative profits and bring them toward an equilibrium. Because there is no information asymmetry in the market, other firms will quickly ramp up their production or reduce their manufacturing costs to achieve parity with the firm which made profits.



The average revenue and marginal revenue for firms in a perfectly competitive market are equal to the product’s price to the buyer. As a result, the perfectly competitive market’s equilibrium, which had been disrupted earlier, will be restored. In the long run, an adjustment of supply and demand ensures all profits or losses in such markets tend toward zero.


   Perfect Competition vs. Monopoly  

The opposite of perfect competition is a monopoly, where a single company controls the supply of a certain product. In monopoly conditions, consumers cannot go elsewhere if the price is too high; they can only decide not to buy the product.



This means that rather than setting prices by supply and demand, the monopolistic firm can simply set a price point that maximizes its profits. Some types of firms are considered natural monopolies because there is a significant first-mover advantage that discourages competitors from entering the market. Other monopolies may be established through government actions, or by cartels, such as OPEC.


   Examples of Perfect Competition   

As mentioned earlier, perfect competition is a theoretical construct and doesn't actually exist. As such, it is difficult to find real-life examples of perfect competition but there are variants present in everyday society.


  Produce  

Consider the situation at a farmer’s market, a place characterized by a large number of small sellers and buyers. There is typically little differentiation between products and their prices from one farmer’s market to another. How the produce is grown does not matter (unless they are classified as organic) and there is very little difference in how they're packaged or branded. Thus, even if one of the farms producing goods for the market goes out of business, it will not make a difference to average prices.


  Supermarkets  

The situation may also be relatively similar in the case of two competing supermarkets, which stock their aisles from the same set of companies. Again, there is little to distinguish products from one another between both supermarkets and their pricing remains almost the same. Another example of perfect competition is the market for unbranded products, which features cheaper versions of well-known products.


  Knockoffs  

Product knockoffs are generally priced similarly and there is little to differentiate them from one another. If one of the firms manufacturing such a product goes out of business, it is replaced by another one.


  Technology  

The development of new markets in the technology industry also resembles perfect competition to a certain degree. For example, there was a proliferation of sites offering similar services during the early days of social media networks. Some examples of such sites are Sixdegrees.com, Blackplanet.com, and Asianave.com. None of them had a dominant market share and the sites were mostly free. They constituted sellers in the market while consumers of such sites, who were mainly young people, were the buyers.



The startup costs for companies in this space were minimal, meaning that startups and companies can freely enter and exit these markets. Technologies, such as PHP and Java, were largely open-source and available to anyone. Capital costs, in the form of real estate and infrastructure, were not necessary. Remember that Mark Zuckerberg effectively founded Facebook from his college dorm.




What Is Perfect Competition?
In economic theory, perfect competition occurs when all companies sell identical products, market share does not influence price, companies are able to enter or exit without barriers, buyers have perfect or full information, and companies cannot determine prices. In other words, it is a market that is entirely influenced by market forces. It is the opposite of imperfect competition, which is a more accurate reflection of a current market structure.




What Is an Example of Perfect Competition?
Consider a farmers market where each vendor sells the same type of jam. There is little differentiation between each of their products, as they use the same recipe, and they each sell them at an equal price. At the same time, sellers are few and free to participate in the market without any barrier. Buyers, in this case, would be fully knowledgeable of the product’s recipe, and any other information relevant to the good.




What Is the Difference Between Perfect Competition and Imperfect Competition?
While perfect competition is an idealized market structure in which equal and identical products are sold, imperfect competition can be found in monopolies and real-life examples. For instance, imperfect competition involves companies competing for market share, high barriers to entry, and buyers lacking complete information on a product or service. Unlike perfect competition, however, this creates the incentive to innovate and produce better products, in addition to increased profit margins due to the influence of supply and demand.


   The Bottom Line  

Perfect competition describes an imaginary market condition where all consumers have access to the same products and information. In this type of economy, all firms must offer the lowest price possible or risk being undercut by their competitors. Although this is only a theoretical model, perfect competition is useful for demonstrating how economic actors behave in a free market.
What Is a Performance Bond?  

A performance bond is a financial guarantee to one party in a contract against the failure of the other party to meet its obligations. It is also referred to as a contract bond. A performance bond is usually provided by a bank or an insurance company to make sure a contractor completes designated projects.





Key Takeaways

A performance bond is issued to one party of a contract as a guarantee against the failure of the other party to meet the obligations of the contract.A performance bond is usually issued by a bank or an insurance company.Performance bonds can also be used in commodity trades as a guarantee of delivery.In commodity markets, a seller is asked to provide a performance bond to reassure the buyer if the commodity being sold is not delivered.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   Understanding Performance Bonds  

A performance bond is a financial guarantee that the terms of a contract will be honored. If one party to a contract cannot complete their obligations, the bond is paid out to the other party to compensate for their damages or costs.



The Miller Act instituted the requirement of placing performance bonds. The Act covers all public work contracts $100,000 and above. These bonds are also required for private sectors that necessitate the use of general contractors for their company's operations.



Jobs that require payment and performance bonds go through job or project bidding first. As soon as the job or project is awarded to the winning bidder, payment and performance bonds are provided as a guarantee for the completion of the project.



Performance bonds are common in construction and real estate development. In such situations, an owner or investor may require the developer to assure that contractors or project managers procure performance bonds, in order to guarantee that the value of the work will not be lost in the case of an unforeseen negative event.


  Parties to a Performance Bond  

A performance bond is an agreement between three parties, as explained below.



The principal (usually a contractor), is the person or company who is providing a service.
The obligee is the party that is paying the principal to perform certain work.
The surety is the party that provides a performance bond to guarantee that the principal will complete their work. In the event of a partial or total failure by the principal. the surety will pay any additional costs for completion, up to the limits of the performance bond.






Performance bonds are also used in commodity contracts.


  Protecting Parties  

Performance bonds are provided to protect parties from concerns such as contractors being insolvent before finishing the contract. When this happens, the compensation provided for the party that issued the performance bond may be able to overcome financial difficulties and other damages caused by the insolvency of the contractor.



A payment bond and a performance bond work hand in hand. A payment bond guarantees a party pays all entities, such as subcontractors, suppliers, and laborers, involved in a particular project when the project is completed. A performance bond ensures the completion of a project. Setting these two together provides the proper incentives for laborers to provide a quality finish for the client.


  Commodity Contracts  

Performance bonds are also used in commodity contracts, where a seller is asked to provide a bond to reassure the buyer that if the commodity being sold is not in fact delivered, the buyer will at least receive compensation for lost costs.



The issuance of a performance bond protects a party from monetary losses due to failed or incomplete projects. For example, a client issues a contractor a performance bond. If the contractor is not able to follow the agreed specifications in constructing the building, the client is given monetary compensation for the losses and damages the contractor may have caused.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Performance Bond  

Performance bonds protect the contracting party in the event that their contractor may become insolvent or otherwise unable to meet the terms of a contract. If the costs of completing the project overrun their projections, the obligee will not be responsible for the additional expenses. This reduces the risk for developers or other companies when they engage in large-scale construction projects.



However, there are some risks to consider. The surety may attempt to argue that the obligee did not comply with all the requirements of the bond in order to deny payment. Or, they may try to get the obligee to settle on a lesser amount.



Moreover, it is up to the obligee to calculate the financial cost of a failure by the contractor. If the obligee underestimates the cost of non-performance, they will have to absorb those extra costs on their own.




Pros and Cons of a Performance Bond

Pros

Protects an obligee from additional costs if work is not completed.
Reduces the risk for developers in construction and other large projects.



Cons

Bond issuers may attempt to deny payment.
If the obligee underestimates the cost of non-performance, they will have to absorb these extra costs on their own.
Performance bonds add an additional cost to the contractor that may be passed on to the obligee.





   How to Get a Performance Bond  

In order to get a performance bond, contractors need to apply to a surety for a letter of bondability. This non-binding letter states the monetary limits that the surety would be willing to provide to bond the contractor, based on factors like the contractor's experience and creditworthiness, and the size of the proposed project(s).



The bondability letter also confirms that the surety is registered and licensed in the state where the work will be performed, and provides contact information. Although this letter is not legally binding, it is a useful way of demonstrating a contractor's qualifications before they have to spend any money.



In order to become fully bonded, the contractor must provide certain financial information to the surety in order to underwrite the bond. This will depend on the amount being bonded: Smaller projects might require only good credit and a clean license history, while larger projects may require financial statements, balance sheets, and several years of tax returns. The contractor will also pay the company to provide surety, usually a small percentage of the bond amount.


   Example of a Performance Bond  

Suppose a hypothetical developer is looking for a contractor to construct a new apartment building. Because of the size of the project, they will require their contractor to be bonded. This provides the developer with protection if the contractor fails to meet the requirements of their contract.



The contractor will engage with a bond provider, or surety, to provide a performance bond for that project. In order to get a performance bond, the contractor agrees to pay the surety a small percentage of the total bond amount, usually between 1% and 4%. In exchange, the surety promises to pay up to the agreed bond amount if the contractor fails to deliver on its obligations.



If the contractor does fail to deliver, the developer can file a claim with the surety for damages equal to their losses, up to the value of the performance bond. The surety then investigates to determine the extent of the losses.


   Industries That Use Performance Bonds  

Usually, performance bonds are provided in the real estate industry. These bonds are heavily used in real property construction and development. They protect real property owners and investors from low-quality work that may be caused by unfortunate events, such as bankruptcy or insolvency of the contractor.



Performance bonds are also useful in other industries. The buyer of a commodity may ask a seller to provide a performance bond. This protects the buyer from any risk that the seller is unable to deliver the commodity, for any kind of reason. If the commodity is not delivered, the buyer receives compensation for losses and damages caused by the non-completion of the transaction.




How Much Does a Performance Bond Cost?
The cost of a performance bond depends on a variety of factors, such as the size of the project, the creditworthiness of the contractor, their license history, and the overall financial strength of the bonding party. In general, the rate usually ranges between 1.5% and 3.5% of the total value of the performance bond.




What Is a Payment Bond?
A payment bond is similar to a performance bond, but it is used to guarantee payment to the contractors and subcontractors in the event that the principal becomes insolvent or otherwise unable to pay.




How Long Does a Performance Bond Last?
The time limit for claiming a performance bond will be spelled out in the bond contract. However, most performance bonds have a duration of twelve months, with some lasting for 36 months. In addition, your bond may be renewable or non-renewable.


   The Bottom Line  

Performance bonds are used to ensure satisfactory completion of contracted work. If a contractor is unable to deliver on their obligations, a performance bond allows the paying party to cover any additional costs due to their failure to deliver. These bonds are usually used for large construction or government projects that might take a long time to complete.
What Is a Performance Budget?  

A performance budget is one that reflects both the input of resources and the output of services for each unit of an organization. The goal is to identify and score relative performance based on goal attainment for specified outcomes. This type of budget is commonly used by government bodies and agencies to show the link between taxpayer funds and the outcome of services provided by federal, state, or local governments.





Key Takeaways

Performance budgets reflect the input of resources and the output of services for each department or unit of an organization.They are designed to motivate employees' commitment to produce positive results.Disadvantages include the potential for disagreement over spending priorities and a lack of unified cost standards.


   Understanding a Performance Budget  

The decision process for performance budgets focuses on outputs—or outcomes—of services. In other words, the allocation of funds and resources is based on specific goals agreed upon by budget committees and agency heads of services. For instance, in schools, teachers may earn bonuses or promotions based on aggregate test scores among their students, which is supposed to show a high degree of skill and effectiveness (although this may not always be the case.)






Performance budgets, as the theory goes, are designed to motivate employees, enhancing their commitment to producing positive results.



A few examples of outcomes that a performance budget could address include:



Improvement in average test scores of a school districtDecreases in mortality or morbidity rates of a health programImprovement of water quality of a county's drinking supplyNon-violent crime reduction in a cityReduction in road pothole complaints



All of these would have numerical targets attached to them. A performance budget would be developed accordingly to identify those target numbers and a method of evaluating performance. Performance budgets often rely on quantifying otherwise qualitative or subjective factors so that they can be measured and accounted for.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Performance Budget  

The advantages in the public sector are an increase in accountability of the local authorities to the taxpayers, communication to the public about priorities, and quantifying particular goals. Taxpayers want to know where and how their money is being spent and to what end.



Similarly, nonprofit organizations draw up performance budgets to link inputs and outputs for their missions. Donors to these organizations also want to know what kind of "return" society is getting from their donations.



Some disadvantages of a performance budget include:



The potential for disagreement on where spending priorities should lie, in the case of a government with multiple agenciesLack of unified cost standards across multiple agenciesThe potential for a department to manipulate data in order to reach a target, which could lead to a need to spend funds on an independent party to verify resultsA lack of flexibility once the inputs/outputs have been set



One prominent disadvantage of performance budgets is that by assigning target scores or numbers that an organization uses as its benchmark for achievement, the numbers can be gamed or become the sole focus of one's task. For instance, teachers looking to earn a certain score may only focus on the factors that comprise that score and overlook or ignore other factors that may be important to teaching but not for the performance budget.
What Is Performance Management?  

Performance management is a tool that helps managers monitor and evaluate employees' work. The goal of performance management is to create an environment where people can perform to the best of their abilities and in alignment with the organization's overall goals. Performance management is widely used in both the private and public sectors.





Key Takeaways

Performance management is intended to help people perform to the best of their abilities in alignment with the organization's goals.It views individuals in the context of the broader workplace system and encourages their input in goal-setting.Performance management focuses on accountability and transparency and fosters a clear understanding of expectations.Rather than just annual performance reviews, performance management provides ongoing feedback to employees. 


   How Performance Management Works  

A formal performance-management program helps managers and employees see eye-to-eye about expectations, goals, and career progress, including how an individual's work aligns with the company's overall vision. Generally speaking, performance management views individuals in the context of the broader workplace system. In theory, companies seek the absolute performance standard, even though that is considered to be unattainable.



Performance-management programs use traditional tools such as setting and measuring goals, objectives, and milestones. They also aim to define what effective individual performance looks like and develop processes to measure it. However, instead of using the traditional paradigm of year-end reviews, performance management turns every interaction with an employee into an occasion to learn.



Managers can use performance management tools to adjust workflow, recommend new courses of action, and make other decisions that will help employees achieve their objectives. In turn, this helps the company reach its goals and perform optimally. For example, the manager of a sales department can give staff members target revenue volumes that they must reach within a set time period. In a performance management system, along with the numbers, the manager would offer guidance gauged to help the salespeople succeed.



Focusing on continuous accountability creates a healthier, more transparent work environment, and emphasis on regular meetings can improve overall communications. Because performance management establishes concrete rules, everyone has a clearer understanding of the expectations. When expectations are clear, the workplace is less stressful. Employees are not trying to impress a manager by doing some random task, and managers aren't worried about how to tell employees that they are not performing well. If the system is working, they probably know it already.





24%

Percentage of workers who very strongly agreed with the statement "My manager includes me in goal setting" in a September 2022 Gallup survey.


   Common Steps in Performance Management  

Although off-the-shelf performance-management software packages exist, templates are generally customized for a specific organization's needs. Typically, effective performance-management programs include certain universal elements, such as:



Aligning employees' activities with the company's mission and goals. Each employee should understand how their job contributes to the company's overall goals. Supervisors and employees together should define a job's duties.
Developing specific job-performance outcomes. Through performance management, employees should understand: What goods or services does my job produce? What procedures does my job entail? What effect should my work have on the company? How should I interact with clients, colleagues, and supervisors?
Creating measurable performance-based expectations. Employees should have the opportunity to give input into how success is measured. The expectations can include results, which are the goods and services an employee produces; actions, which are the processes an employee uses to make a product or perform a service; and behaviors, which are the demeanor and values an employee demonstrates at work.
Defining job-development plans. Employees should have a say in what types of new things they learn and how they can use that knowledge to the company's benefit.
Meeting regularly. Instead of waiting for an annual performance appraisal, managers and employees should engage actively year-round to evaluate progress.


   Benefits of Performance Management  

Advocates of performance management maintain that it not only helps organizations attain their goals but makes work more fulfilling for individual employees, with the bottom-line benefit of improved worker retention. For example, workers often feel blindsided by negative annual performance reviews. While performance management may also incorporate annual reviews, the ongoing feedback that managers provide throughout the year should result in fewer unpleasant surprises.



As the polling firm Gallup, which conducts worldwide surveys on workplace issues, puts it, effective performance management requires "managers to think of themselves as coaches, not bosses. And when managers have timely, performance-related conversations that reflect this principle, manager-employee interactions feel encouraging, engaging, and rewarding in ways that annual reviews do not."



The benefits can also extend outside the organization, with studies showing that performance management often produces greater customer satisfaction.




What Is Management by Objectives vs. Performance Management?
Somewhat similar to performance management, management by objectives (MBO) is a corporate leadership model that attempts to align employees' goals with those of an organization. It is often broken down into five basic steps: defining objectives, communicating those objectives to employees, monitoring employees' progress, evaluating their performance, and rewarding their achievements.Like performance management, MBO encourages (in theory at least) employee participation in goal-setting. However, MBO is frequently criticized as being too rigid and so focused on goals that employees and managers are driven to meet them no matter how they do so. According to an article in the January 2003 Harvard Business Review, MBO is "an approach to performance appraisal that's gone out of fashion for the most part."




What Is the Difference Between Performance Management and Performance Appraisal?
In performance management, supervisors provide ongoing feedback to employees. Performance appraisals, on the other hand, tend to provide feedback looking back over a certain period, often a year. Companies that practice performance management can include an annual performance review as part of their process, so the two aren't mutually exclusive.




What Are SMART Goals?
SMART goals are part of a goal-setting system and philosophy used by many companies and other organizations, as well as by individuals. Following the SMART acronym, it advocates creating goals that are specific, measurable, achievable (or attainable), relevant, and time-bound.


   The Bottom Line  

Performance management, done properly, can have benefits for organizations and their employees alike. The key is employee involvement and regular, productive feedback.
What Is a Periodic Interest Rate?  

A periodic interest rate is a rate that can be charged on a loan, or realized on an investment over a specific period of time. Lenders typically quote interest rates on an annual basis, but the interest compounds more frequently than annually in most cases. The periodic interest rate is the annual interest rate divided by the number of compounding periods.






A greater number of compounding periods allows interest to be earned on or added to interest a greater number of times.


   How a Periodic Interest Rate Works  

The number of compounding periods directly affects the periodic interest rate of an investment or a loan. An investment's periodic rate is 1% if it has an effective annual return of 12% and it compounds every month. Its periodic interest rate is 0.00033 if you are compounding the daily periodic rate, it would be the equivalent of 0.03%.



The more frequently an investment compounds, the more quickly it grows. Imagine that two options are available on a $1,000 investment. Under option one, the investor receives an 8% annual interest rate and the interest compounds monthly. Under option two, the investor receives an 8.125% interest rate, compounded annually.



By the end of a 10-year period, the $1,000 investment under option one grows to $2,219.64, but under option two, it grows to $2,184.04. The more frequent compounding of option one yields a greater return even though the interest rate is higher in option two.





Key Takeaways

Lenders typically quote interest rates on an annual basis, but the interest compounds more frequently than annually in most cases.Interest on mortgages usually compounds monthly.Credit card lenders typically calculate interest based on a daily periodic rate so the interest rate is multiplied by the amount the borrower owes at the end of each day.


   Example of a Periodic Interest Rate  

The interest on a mortgage is compounded or applied on a monthly basis. If the annual interest rate on that mortgage is 8%, the periodic interest rate used to calculate the interest assessed in any single month is 0.08 divided by 12, working out to 0.0067 or 0.67%.



The remaining principal balance of the mortgage loan would have a 0.67% interest rate applied to it each month.


   Types of Interest Rates  

The annual interest rate typically quoted on loans or investments is the nominal interest rate—the periodic rate before compounding has been taken into account. The effective interest rate is the actual interest rate after the effects of compounding have been included in the calculation.



You must know a loan's nominal rate and the number of compounding periods to calculate its effective annual interest rate. First, divide the nominal rate by the number of compounding periods. The result is the periodic rate. Now add this number to 1 and take the sum by the power of the number of compounding interest rates. Subtract 1 from the product to get the effective interest rate.



For example, if a mortgage compounds monthly and has a nominal annual interest rate of 6%, its periodic rate is 0.5%. When you convert the percentage to a decimal and add 1, the sum is 1.005. This number to the 12th power is 1.0617. When you subtract 1 from this number, the difference is 0.0617 or 6.17%. The effective rate is slightly higher than the nominal rate.



Credit card lenders typically calculate interest based on a daily periodic rate. The interest rate is multiplied by the amount the borrower owes at the end of each day. This interest is then added to that day's balance, and the whole process happens again 24 hours later—when what the borrower owes is typically more unless they have made a payment because now their balance includes the previous day's interest. These lenders often quote an annual percentage rate (APR), glossing over this daily periodic rate calculation. You can identify your daily periodic rate by dividing the APR by 365, although some lenders determine daily periodic rates by dividing by 360.


   Special Consideration  

Some revolving loans offer a "grace period" from accumulating interest, allowing borrowers to pay off their balances by a certain date within the billing cycle without further interest compounding on their balances. The date and duration of your grace period, if any, should be clearly identified in your contract with the lender.
What Is the Permanent Income Hypothesis?  

The permanent income hypothesis is a theory of consumer spending stating that people will spend money at a level consistent with their expected long-term average income. The level of expected long-term income then becomes thought of as the level of “permanent” income that can be safely spent. A worker will save only if their current income is higher than the anticipated level of permanent income, in order to guard against future declines in income.





Key Takeaways

The permanent income hypothesis states that individuals will spend money at a level that is consistent with their expected long-term average income.Milton Friedman developed the permanent income hypothesis, believing that consumer spending is a result of estimated future income as opposed to consumption that is based on current after-tax income.Under the theory, if economic policies result in increased income, it will not necessarily translate into increased consumer spending.An individual's liquidity is a factor in their management of income and spending.


   Understanding the Permanent Income Hypothesis  

The permanent income hypothesis was formulated by the Nobel Prize-winning economist Milton Friedman in 1957. The hypothesis implies that changes in consumption behavior are not predictable because they are based on individual expectations. This has broad implications concerning economic policy.



Under this theory, even if economic policies are successful in increasing income in the economy, the policies may not kick off a multiplier effect in regards to increased consumer spending. Rather, the theory predicts that there will not be an uptick in consumer spending until workers reform expectations about their future incomes.



Milton believed that people will consume based on an estimate of their future income as opposed to what Keynesian economics proposed; people will consume based on their in the moment after-tax income. Milton's basis was that individuals prefer to smooth their consumption rather than let it bounce around as a result of short-term fluctuations in income.


   Spending Habits Under the Permanent Income Hypothesis  

If a worker is aware that they are likely to receive an income bonus at the end of a particular pay period, it is plausible that the worker’s spending in advance of that bonus may change in anticipation of the additional earnings. However, it is also possible that workers may choose to not increase their spending based solely on a short-term windfall. They may instead make efforts to increase their savings, based on the expected boost in income.



Something similar can be said of individuals who are informed that they are to receive an inheritance. Their personal expenditures could change to take advantage of the anticipated influx of funds, but per this theory, they may maintain their current spending levels in order to save the supplemental assets. Or, they may seek to invest those supplemental funds to provide long-term growth of their money rather than spend it immediately on disposable products and services.


   Liquidity and the Permanent Income Hypothesis  

The liquidity of the individual can play a role in future income expectations. Individuals with no assets may already be in the habit of spending without regard to their income; current or future.



Changes over time, however—through incremental salary raises or the assumption of new long-term jobs that bring higher, sustained pay—can lead to changes in permanent income. With their expectations elevated, employees may allow their expenditures to scale up in turn.
What Is Permanent Life Insurance?  

Permanent life insurance provides coverage for the full lifetime of the insured person. While permanent life is more expensive than term insurance, permanent policies combine a death benefit with a savings component that earns interest on a tax-deferred basis.



The two primary types of permanent life insurance are whole life and universal life. The cash value of whole life insurance grows at a guaranteed rate. Universal life insurance also contains savings and a death benefit, but it features more flexible premium options and its earnings are based on market interest rates. Variable life and variable universal life also provide expanded options to invest the cash value in mutual funds and other financial instruments.



Once you've picked the policy that's right for you, remember to thoroughly research the firms you're considering to ensure you'll get the best life insurance available.





Key Takeaways


Permanent life insurance refers to coverage that never expires (unlike term life insurance).
Most permanent life insurance combines a death benefit with a savings component.
Whole life and universal life insurance are two primary types of permanent life insurance.
Life insurance policies enjoy favorable tax treatment.
Permanent life insurance policies have much higher premiums than term life insurance policies, which lack a savings component.



   Understanding Permanent Life Insurance  

While term life insurance only promises to cover you for a certain period of years, permanent life insurance lasts your lifetime (hence, the name) as long as the policy owner pays the premiums.



Permanent life insurance premiums cover the cost of the policy’s death benefit and allow the policy to build cash value. The policy owner can borrow funds against that cash value through a policy loan or withdraw cash outright to help meet needs such medical expenses or a child’s college education.



An insurer charges interest on an outstanding cash value loan. If the total unpaid interest on a policy loan plus the outstanding loan balance exceeds the amount of a policy’s cash value, the insurance policy and all coverage will terminate.



Permanent life insurance policies enjoy favorable tax treatment. Cash value generally grows on a tax-deferred basis, which means the policyholder pays no taxes on earnings as long as the money stays in the policy. Some money can also be withdrawn from the policy without taxation. Generally, withdrawals up to the total of premiums paid are not taxed. Taking cash value out of a permanent policy through a withdrawal or outstanding loan will reduce the future death benefit for heirs.






Many term life insurance policies offer the option to convert the coverage to permanent life insurance before the term expires.


   Permanent Life Insurance vs. Term Life Insurance  

Different people have different insurance needs at different periods of their lives. Both whole life and permanent insurance provide a death benefit as long as premiums are kept current. While term life insurance is popular for its lower premiums, term coverage typically will expire well before the end of your life. You can usually extend term coverage once the initial period ends, but your premiums will increase.



Term insurance is often used by younger families to provide coverage until they pay off most of their debts and accumulate enough savings to make a large amount of life insurance unnecessary. However, other people may decide they’d prefer the ongoing coverage and savings opportunities provided by a new permanent policy.



For this reason, many term life policies offer the option to convert the coverage to a permanent policy later, often without needing to take medical exams or meet other qualification standards. The conversion feature could be appealing for someone with medical issues that could make a new policy prohibitively expensive, or those with chronic conditions that might eventually require them to draw ongoing expenses from the savings portion.



While the premiums for permanent life insurance are much more expensive than those for term coverage, people who get permanent policies typically have earned enough money by that stage of their lives to afford the increased costs. With the added opportunity for savings, they can also use it as a tax-favorable investment vehicle to cover the needs of lifelong dependents or for estate-planning purposes.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Permanent Life Insurance  

There are pros and cons to purchasing permanent life insurance. If you can afford the higher premiums, permanent life insurance allows you to provide a death benefit to your beneficiaries without the limitations of term life insurance. A permanent life insurance policy allows you to build savings in an account with tax advantages. You can also borrow from or withdraw those funds during the lifetime of the policy.



The downsides to purchasing a permanent life insurance policy are the high costs of premiums, the risk of not being able to afford to keep up with payments, and that taking out the policy's cash policy value reduces the death benefit.




What Is Permanent Policy Life Insurance?
Permanent life insurance is a life insurance policy that doesn't expire until the death of the policy holder. It usually comes with a cash value savings component.




What Are the Four Types of Permanent Life Insurance?
The four types of permanent life insurance policies are universal life, whole life, variable universal life, and variable life.




What Is Better, Term or Permanent Life Insurance?
Both term and permanent life insurance can help you protect your loved ones financially. You should buy the one that offers premiums you can afford. Permanent life lasts longer and has a cash value component, but its premiums are usually much higher than term life insurance.




Can You Cash Out Permanent Life Insurance?
Yes, you can cash out permanent life insurance after it has been in force for several years. You can take out a loan against your policy, withdraw money from the cash value, or surrender the policy. If you do the latter, you may be forced to pay surrender fees and taxes on your withdrawal.




How Long Does Permanent Life Insurance Last?
If you pay the premiums on your policy and do not let the policy lapse or surrender it, a permanent life insurance policy will last your lifetime.


   The Bottom Line  

Permanent life insurance pays out a guaranteed benefit upon the insured's death. Most policies contain a cash value savings component that earns interest and grows tax-free while the coverage remains in force. You can also withdraw or borrow against the cash value while alive. However, premiums for permanent life coverage are significantly higher than those for term insurance.
What Is a Perpetual Bond?  

A perpetual bond, also known as a "consol bond" or "perp," is a fixed income security with no maturity date. This type of bond is often considered a type of equity, rather than debt. One major drawback to these types of bonds is that they are not redeemable. However, the major benefit of them is that they pay a steady stream of interest payments forever.





Key Takeaways

Perpetual bonds, also known as perps or consol bonds, are bonds with no maturity date.Although perpetual bonds are not redeemable, they pay a steady stream of interest in forever.Because of the nature of these bonds, they are often viewed as a type of equity and not a debt. 


   Understanding Perpetual Bonds  

Perpetual bonds exist within a small niche of the bond market. This is mainly due to the fact that there are very few entities that are safe enough for investors to invest in a bond where the principal will never be repaid.



Some of the notable perpetual bonds in existence are those that were issued by the British Treasury for World War I and the South Sea Bubble of 1720. Some in the U.S. believe the federal government should issue perpetual bonds, which may help it avoid the refinancing costs associated with bond issues that have maturity dates.


   Example of a Perpetual Bond  

Since perpetual bond payments are similar to stock dividend payments, as they both offer some sort of return for an indefinite period of time, it is logical that they would be priced the same way.



The price of a perpetual bond is, therefore, the fixed interest payment, or coupon amount, divided by some constant discount rate, which represents the speed at which money loses value over time (partly due to inflation). The discount rate denominator reduces the real value of the nominally fixed coupon amounts over time, eventually making this value equal zero. As such, perpetual bonds, even though they pay interest forever, can be assigned a finite value, which in turn represents their price.


   Formula for the Present Value of a Perpetual Bond  

Present value = D / r



Where:



D = periodic coupon payment of the bond



r = discount rate applied to the bond



For example, if a perpetual bond pays $10,000 per year in perpetuity and the discount rate is assumed to be 4%, the present value would be:



Present value = $10,000 / 0.04 = $250,000



Note that the present value of a perpetual bond is highly sensitive to the discount rate assumed since the payment is known as fact. For example, using the above example with 3%, 4%, 5% and 6% discount rates, the present values are:



Present value (3%) = $10,000 / 0.03 = $333,333



Present value (4%) = $10,000 / 0.04 = $250,000



Present value (5%) = $10,000 / 0.05 = $200,000



Present value (6%) = $10,000 / 0.06 = $166,667
What Is a Perpetual Inventory System?  

A perpetual inventory system is based on an accounting method known as perpetual inventory, which continuously records inventory changes in real time with computerized point-of-sale systems, thereby removing the need for physical inventory checks. It provides a highly detailed view of changes in inventory with immediate reporting of the amount of inventory in stock, and it accurately reflects the level of goods on hand.



Within this system, a company makes no effort to keep detailed inventory records of products on hand; instead, purchases of goods are recorded as a debit to the inventory database. A perpetual inventory system differs from a periodic inventory system, a method in which a company maintains records of its inventory by regularly scheduled physical counts.





Key Takeaways

Perpetual inventory systems track the sale of products in real time through the use of point-of-sale systems.The perpetual inventory method does not attempt to maintain counts of physical products.Perpetual inventory systems are in contrast to periodic inventory systems, in which periodic counts of products are utilized in record keeping.Perpetual inventory systems are especially suitable for large companies that track high-volume sales.Periodic physical counts are still necessary with a perpetual system but are conducted less often and at lower cost and scale.












Matthew Collins / Investopedia


   Understanding Perpetual Inventory Systems  

Perpetual inventory systems may be preferable to older periodic inventory systems because they allow for immediate tracking of sales and inventory levels for individual items, which helps to prevent stockouts. A perpetual inventory does not need to be adjusted manually by the company’s accountants, except to the extent that it deviates from the physical inventory count due to loss, breakage, or theft.






Because perpetual inventory systems lack the ability to account for loss, breakage, or theft, a periodic (physical) inventory is still necessary.



System software provides real-time updates to inventory through the use of barcode scanners or other computerized records of product acquisition, sales, and returns as they occur. This information is fed into a continually adjusted perpetual database.



The system allows for integration with other areas, including finance and accounting teams. This helps ensure adherence to tax and other regulations. Employees can use perpetual inventory data to provide more accurate customer service regarding availability of products, replacement parts, and other physical components.


   Perpetual vs. Periodic Inventory Systems  

The differences between perpetual and periodic inventory systems go beyond how the two systems function, although that is the main point of distinction.



Perpetual inventory systems track sales constantly and immediately with computerized point-of-sale technology. Periodic inventory systems only track sales when a physical count is ordered and require a point-in-time count.



Large companies or those with complex inventories are well suited to a perpetual system. Smaller companies with limited inventory can often survive with a periodic system. The same applies to margin for error, which is lower with a perpetual system, although a limited, uncomplicated inventory may not suffer much with a periodic system.



The cost of goods sold (COGS) is an important accounting metric derived by adding the beginning balance of inventory to the cost of inventory purchases and subtracting the cost of the ending inventory. With a perpetual inventory system, COGS is updated constantly instead of periodically with the alternative physical inventory.



Overall, once a perpetual inventory system is in place, it takes less effort than a physical system. However, the startup costs for a perpetual inventory system are greater.









Differences Between Perpetual and Periodic Inventory Systems




Perpetual Inventory Systems 
Periodic Inventory Systems


Track sales immediately 
Track sales on recurring basis


Use point-of-sale systems
Utilize recurring physical counts


Better for large businesses
Better for small companies


Smaller margin for error
Larger margin for error


COGS updated constantly
COGS updated periodically


Require less effort
Require physical counts


Startup cost potentially high
Less expensive to start up





   Pros and Cons of Perpetual Inventory Systems  

Proponents of perpetual inventory systems don’t always go out of their way to point out the downsides of these systems, chief of which includes the lack of accounting for loss, breakage, or theft. On the other hand, detractors don’t necessarily note that reported stockouts without corresponding sales can signal theft or loss and trigger a physical inventory faster than with a periodic system. When deciding how to maintain control over physical inventory, it’s prudent to carefully weigh both the pros and cons of any system under consideration.


  Pros  

Real-time updates. A perpetual system, as the name implies, provides ongoing updates regarding purchases and sales. Managers and employees alike can monitor these data and use them as needed in real time.More informed forecasting. The ability to track customer buying patterns and seasonal fluctuations, and the opportunities that this information provides, are important advantages of a perpetual inventory system. Knowing and updating customer buying patterns allows for a stocking plan that minimizes either excess or inadequate stock, which can result in losses.Multiple-location management. One of the major challenges of inventory management is the monitoring of inventory at multiple locations. A connected perpetual inventory system creates a number of fulfillment opportunities, including moving stock from one location to another and managing inventory levels for all locations internally.Preparation of financial statements. This system makes it easier to prepare financial reports. One of the components of financial statements is inventory value; having the amount and value of the available stock recorded directly in the system can speed up the preparation of financial reports and avoid the errors of manual calculations.Reduction of down time or store closures. Businesses that rely solely on periodic physical inventories have difficult decisions to make. Do they tie up employees’ time, even close stores on a frequent basis, to conduct inventories and gain accuracy, or do they opt for less frequent stock counts and sacrifice up-to-date data? A perpetual inventory system eliminates those problems.


  Cons  

Loss of stock. This can occur due to damage, spoilage, and theft, among other reasons. When the estimated perpetual inventory does not match up to a subsequent physical inventory, that discrepancy equates to a loss.Improper inventory tracking. Scanning errors, misplacement of product, software malfunction, or operator (employee) errors can degrade the efficiency of a perpetual inventory system. When this happens, tracking the company’s goods and inventory in the warehouse or store will hamper business operations.Hacking. Computer systems, despite their speed and efficiency, are susceptible to malfeasance in the form of hacking. Hacking threatens the security and accuracy of all data and information and forces the implementation of cybersecurity measures that can be expensive.Cost. Perpetual inventory systems are expensive, especially on the front end, due to the cost of equipment, software, and training. Updates to all of the above are part of the ongoing cost of maintaining a perpetual system. For a small company with limited inventory and small margins, a perpetual system may not be affordable or even necessary. (However, larger companies or those with multiple locations may see a cost savings.)Need for physical inventory. Due to the eventual need to “count stuff,” a physical inventory, at least on an annual basis, is prudent if not absolutely necessary. Although physical inventories can’t be eliminated, their number can be reduced under optimal circumstances.









Pros and Cons of Perpetual Inventory Systems


 Pros
Cons




Real-time updates
Stock loss


Informed forecasts
Improper tracking


Multiple-location management
Hacking


Ease of financial statement preparation
Cost


Reduction of downtime
Physical inventory still needed





   When to Use a Perpetual Inventory System  

Large companies with a high volume of constantly rotating physical inventory to manage should consider implementing a perpetual inventory system. The same applies to businesses with multiple locations. Companies that don’t meet those criteria now but anticipate growth in the future may want to consider such a system as well.



Other factors that determine the viability of a perpetual inventory system include:



The size of the company’s margins and its ability to afford implementation and ongoing operating costsThe size of the inventory to be managedThe ability of vendors to respond to different types of inventory management methods


   How to Use a Perpetual Inventory System  

To calculate inventory, companies need to set up a system where every piece of inventory is entered into the system and deducted from the system as it’s sold. This requires the use of point-of-sale terminals, barcode scanners, and perpetual inventory software to update estimated inventory with every product purchase and sale.



Since a perpetual inventory system estimates stock on hand, it does not replace a periodic physical inventory. At some point, a physical inventory must take place. Businesses that use a perpetual inventory system typically employ cycle counting or the process of physically counting a portion of inventory to use as a baseline to check the accuracy of the perpetual system. The intent is to complete a full physical inventory over time.


  Inventory Management  

Inventory management refers to the processes involved in ordering raw materials, storing and using them to create products, and ultimately selling products to an end user. There are four main inventory management methods:



Just-in-time (JIT) management
Material requirements planning (MRP)
Economic order quantity (EOQ)
Days sales of inventory (DSI)



Each of these methods has its pros and cons when it comes to use within a perpetual inventory system.



The use of a perpetual inventory system makes it particularly easy for a company to use the economic order quantity (EOQ) method to purchase inventory. EOQ is a formula that managers use to decide when to purchase inventory based on the cost to hold inventory as well as the firm’s cost to order inventory.


  Cost of Goods Sold (COGS)  

When a company sells products in a perpetual inventory system, the expense account increases and grows the cost of goods sold (COGS). COGS represents production costs and expenses during a specific period. This includes the materials and labor costs but not distribution or sales expenses. The formula for COGS appears below.



COGS = BI + P - EI



BI = Beginning inventory



P = Purchases for the period



EI = Ending inventory



A perpetual inventory system maintains a continuous tally of transactions, making the COGS available at any time. By contrast, a periodic inventory system calculates the COGS only after conducting a physical inventory.



The advantage of a perpetual system in providing a rolling estimate of COGS is clear. A company knows, after each transaction, how much it cost to produce products sold at that point. By updating these data on a continuous basis and integrating them with other business systems, the company has actionable information available on a 24/7 basis as a way to respond to increased costs in a timely manner.


  Calculating Gross Profit  

Gross profit is the result of subtracting COGS from revenue. Recall that COGS includes the cost of labor and materials but not sales or distribution costs. The formula for gross profit is:



Gross Profit = Revenue - COGS



The ability to estimate COGS continuously also provides a company using a perpetual inventory system the ability to estimate gross profit continuously. That’s because every transaction is recorded in real time under a perpetual inventory system.


   Examples of Inventory Costing Systems  

Companies can choose among several methods to account for the cost of inventory held for sale, but the total inventory cost expensed is the same using any method. The difference between the methods is the timing of when the inventory cost is recognized, and the cost of inventory sold is posted to the cost of sales expense account.



The first in, first out (FIFO) method assumes that the oldest units are sold first, while the last in, first out (LIFO) method records the newest units as those sold first. Businesses can simplify the inventory costing process by using a weighted average cost, or the total inventory cost divided by the number of units in inventory.




What’s the difference between a perpetual inventory system and a periodic inventory system?
A perpetual inventory system uses point-of-sale terminals, scanners, and software to record all transactions in real time and maintain an estimate of inventory on a continuous basis. A periodic inventory system requires counting items at various intervals—i.e., weekly, monthly, quarterly, or annually.




What does COGS stand for?
COGS is an acronym for cost of goods sold. It plays an integral role in business accounting by providing a point-in-time estimate of the cost to produce products sold by a company. If the company utilizes a perpetual inventory system, COGS is available on a continuous basis. With a periodic inventory system, COGS is calculated at the end of an inventory period.




What’s the difference between FIFO and LIFO?
FIFO (first in, first out) refers to an accounting system that assumes the oldest products are sold first, followed by newer ones. LIFO (last in, first out) assumes the most recent products are sold before older ones.


   The Bottom Line  

Businesses increasingly track inventory using a perpetual inventory system vs. the older, physical-count periodic inventory system. Perpetual systems are costly to implement but less expensive and time consuming over the long haul.



Despite the advantages of a continuously updated estimate of stockage and the interconnectivity of accounting systems, a major drawback of perpetual systems is the inability to track lost, damaged, or stolen items. Many companies counter this with periodic partial inventory counts, which provide a baseline for the perpetual system and are designed to provide a full physical inventory by the end of the period.



Small- and medium-sized companies or companies with small physical inventories continue to use the periodic inventory system, though many are opting for low-cost perpetual inventory systems. Large companies, companies with multiple locations, and those with large physical inventories have largely converted to perpetual systems since they can absorb the high startup costs and realize savings through the minimal use of labor that comes with a perpetual system.
What Does Perpetuity Mean in Finance?  

A perpetuity is a security that pays for an infinite amount of time. In finance, perpetuity is a constant stream of identical cash flows with no end.



The concept of perpetuity is also used in several financial theories, such as in the dividend discount model (DDM).





Key Takeaways

A perpetuity, in finance, refers to a security that pays a never-ending cash stream.It is essentially an annuity with no termination date.The present value of a perpetuity is determined by simply dividing the amount of the regular cash flows by the discount rate.A growing perpetuity includes a growth rate that increases the cash flows received each period going forward.Perpetuities today are uncommon financial products, but the concept of a perpetuity is nonetheless important in finance.












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   Understanding Perpetuity  

An annuity is a stream of cash flows. A perpetuity is a type of annuity that lasts forever, into perpetuity. The stream of cash flows continues for an infinite amount of time. In finance, a person uses the perpetuity calculation in valuation methodologies to find the present value of a company's cash flows when discounted back at a certain rate.



An example of a financial instrument with perpetual cash flows was the British-issued bonds known as consols, which the Bank of England phased out in 2015. By purchasing a consol from the British government, the bondholder was entitled to receive annual interest payments forever.



Although it may seem a bit illogical, an infinite series of cash flows can have a finite present value. Because of the time value of money, each payment is only a fraction of the last.



Specifically, the perpetuity formula determines the amount of cash flows in the terminal year of operation. In valuation, a company is said to be a going concern, meaning that it goes on forever. For this reason, the terminal year is a perpetuity, and analysts use the perpetuity formula to find its value.


   Perpetuity Present Value Formula  

The formula to calculate the present value of a perpetuity, or security with perpetual cash flows, is as follows:


















PV


=



C



(


1


+


r



)


1





+



C



(


1


+


r



)


2





+



C



(


1


+


r



)


3





⋯


=



C


r

















where:
















PV


=


present value
















C


=


cash flow
















r


=


discount rate







\begin{aligned} &\text{PV} = \frac { C }{ ( 1 + r ) ^ 1 } + \frac { C }{ ( 1 + r ) ^ 2 } + \frac { C }{ ( 1 + r ) ^ 3 } \cdots = \frac { C }{ r } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{PV} = \text{present value} \\ &C = \text{cash flow} \\ &r = \text{discount rate} \\ \end{aligned}


​PV=(1+r)1C​+(1+r)2C​+(1+r)3C​⋯=rC​where:PV=present valueC=cash flowr=discount rate​



The basic method used to calculate a perpetuity is to divide cash flows by some discount rate. The formula used to calculate the terminal value in a stream of cash flows for valuation purposes is a bit more complicated. It is the estimate of cash flows in year 10 of the company, multiplied by one plus the company’s long-term growth rate, and then divided by the difference between the cost of capital and the growth rate.



Simply put, the terminal value is some amount of cash flows divided by some discount rate, which is the basic formula for a perpetuity.


   Perpetuity Example  

For example, if a company is projected to make $100,000 in year 10, and the company’s cost of capital is 8%, with a long-term growth rate of 3%, the value of the perpetuity is as follows:


















=





Cash Flow


Year 10



×


(


1


+


g


)




r


−


g


















=




$


100


,


000


×


1.03




0.08


−


0.03


















=




$


103


,


000



0.05

















=


$


2.06


 million







\begin{aligned} &= \frac{ \text{Cash Flow}_\text{Year 10} \times ( 1 + g ) }{ r - g } \\ &= \frac{ \$100,000 \times 1.03 }{ 0.08 - 0.03 } \\ &= \frac{ \$103,000 }{ 0.05 } \\ &= \$2.06 \text{ million} \\ \end{aligned}


​=r−gCash FlowYear 10​×(1+g)​=0.08−0.03$100,000×1.03​=0.05$103,000​=$2.06 million​



This means that $100,000 paid into a perpetuity, assuming a 3% rate of growth with an 8% cost of capital, is worth $2.06 million in 10 years. Now, a person must find the value of that $2.06 million today. To do this, analysts use another formula referred to as the present value of a perpetuity.


   Growing Perpetuities  

The net present value of a perpetuity is not as large as it might seem due to the fact that the time value of money erodes the value of dollars far into the future (e.g., due to inflation). Therefore, the cash flows received by a fixed perpetuity many years from now can become negligible in terms of future buying power.



A growing perpetuity adjusts the amount of perpetual payments each period by the inflation rate, ensuring a constant level of buying power over time. The present value of a growing perpetuity will therefore be greater than a fixed or non-growing perpetuity. The higher the growth rate of future payments per period, the greater the present value.



The formula for a growing perpetuity is nearly identical to the standard formula, but subtracts the rate of inflation (also known as the growth rate, g) from the discount rate, r, in the denominator:



PV = C/(r-g)



Note that the rate of growth in a growing perpetuity remains fixed over its infinite life, making it only able to include a rough estimate of what inflation may be, on average, over the long run.




How Does Perpetuity Work in a Security?
A perpetuity is a financial instrument that offers a stream of cash flows in perpetuity—that is, without end. Before 2015, the U.K. offered a government bond called a “consol” that was structured as a perpetuity, although these instruments have since been discontinued. Unlike other bonds, perpetuities do not have a fixed maturity date, but instead, continue paying interest indefinitely.




How Is a Perpetuity Valued?
At first glance, it may seem as though an instrument that offers an infinite stream of cash flows would be almost infinitely valuable, but this is not the case. Mathematically speaking, the value of a perpetuity is finite, and its value can be determined by discounting its future cash flows to the present using a specified discount rate. This procedure, known as discounted cash flow (DCF) analysis, is also widely used to value other types of securities, such as stocks, bonds, and real estate investments.




What Is the Difference Between a Perpetuity and an Annuity?
A perpetuity and an annuity are similar instruments in that both offer a fixed set of cash flows over time. However, the key difference between them is that annuities have a predetermined end date, known as the “maturity date,” whereas perpetuities are intended to last forever. Importantly, both annuities and perpetuities can be valued using DCF analysis.




How Long Does a Perpetuity Last?
Forever.


   The Bottom Line  

Perpetuities are investments that make payments indefinitely, with no maturity or expiration date. They are essentially never-ending annuities. Perpetuities as financial products are quite rare today, but the abstract concept of a perpetuity and the calculation of its present value (by dividing the cash flow amount by the discount rate) remains a key concept in finance.
What Is a Perseroan Terbatas (PT)?  

Perseroan Terbatas (PT) is the type of legal entity that a foreign company, foreign government, or foreign individual must use to run a revenue-generating business in Indonesia. Also known as a foreign investment limited liability company, a PT is a business entity that allows foreign investors to conduct commercial activities in Indonesia.



Any Indonesian company that directly receives foreign investments must take the form of a PT. A PT may be classified as an open, closed, domestic, foreign, individual, or a general public PT.





Key Takeaways

A Perseroan Terbatas (PT) is a legal business entity that allows foreign investors to run a revenue-generating business in Indonesia.While the structure of a Perseroan Terbatas (PT) is similar to a limited liability company found in the United States, there are significant differences regarding Indonesian government regulations that foreign investors must follow.Some PTs sell shares on stock exchanges, allowing individual investors the opportunity to participate in company ownership.There are different types of PTs in Indonesia, including open, closed, domestic, individual, and general public.


   Understanding a Perseroan Terbatas (PT)  

Every country has different legal entity types. The American equivalent of a Perseroan Terbatas (PT) is a limited liability company (LLC). Most PTs operate similarly to limited liability companies (LLCs) and offer shares to the public. Shareholders of a PT are legally liable for a company's debts if it files for bankruptcy. However, investors are only liable only for the amount of their original investment. The articles of association of a PT outline share ownership.



Indonesian law governs the types of businesses that can operate as a PT. Governance and administration of PTs are handled on a regional basis and the rules may vary for each region of the country. The license requirements for each business will depend on the type of work in which they will be involved. While the United States has business entities that operate similarly to an Indonesian PT, the specific rules and guidelines for a PT adhere to Indonesian law regarding business entities. 



Countries often define their business in different terms and with various stipulations. Although a PT mirrors the limited liability company of the United States, there are fundamental differences attributed to the governing laws.


   Types of Perseroan Terbatas (PTs) in Indonesia  

There are a few basic types of PTs.


  Open PT  

An open PT is an LLC that offers shares to the public. Typically, this type of LLC offers ownership shares available for purchase by most investors. Thus, buying and selling stocks is relatively straightforward.


  Closed PT  

A closed PT is an LLC that offers only private shares and restricts the sale of those shares to specific individuals or groups. This limitation is most common for family-owned and operated companies.


  Domestic PT  

A domestic PT is an LLC that physically exists and offers its goods or services in Indonesia. These types of PTs must strictly comply with rules governing businesses in the Republic of Indonesia.


  Individual PT  

An individual PT is an LLC with shares issued to and owned by only one person. This person, typically the owner or director of the company, has sole authority within this type of business structure.


  Foreign PT  

A foreign PT is an LLC that is incorporated in, and subject to, the laws of a foreign country. When an external company establishes a PT in Indonesia, the business is also subject to the laws and regulations of Indonesia.


  General Public PT  

A general public PT is an LLC that has a free-share type ownership system. Any entity may own shares of this type of company. The structure is similar to an open PT. However, shares of this type of company can also be listed on the stock exchange.


   Requirements for Perseroan Terbatas (PTs)  

The Indonesian Investment Coordinating Board (BKPM) is a Non-Ministerial Government Agency, that acts as a go-between for the government and private businesses. The BKPM is in charge of implementing policy and coordinating foreign direct investment in accordance with the country's regulatory provisions. The BKPM is mandated to help increase quality domestic and foreign direct investment to help drive the Indonesian economy and promote job growth.﻿﻿﻿



Below are some of the steps required to establish a PT and the length of time it may take to complete each step:



Obtain a principle license & business license — seven daysDeed of Establishment (containing the Articles of Association), which needs to be legalized by a public notary, which is filed with BKPM— one to two daysLegalization of the legal entity status of the PT PMA must be filed with the Ministry of Law and Human Rights (MOLHR) — 10 daysDomicile Letter is needed from the local district authority — three daysA tax identification number (NPWP) and taxable entrepreneur registration number (PKP) from the local tax office may need to be obtained — three daysCompany Registration Certificate (TDP) from the agency for integrated licensing services (BPPT) —14 daysManpower Report and Company Welfare Report from the sub-department of the Ministry of Manpower — seven days


   Special Considerations  

Foreigners interested in starting or investing in an Indonesian business will need to navigate the country's complex rules regarding foreign investment. While a PT is a legal form for foreigners to engage in business, setting up a foreign investment company in Indonesia can require a significant amount of time and expertise to comply with government regulations and receive final approval.



Not all sectors are open to foreign investment in Indonesia. Some sectors require partial domestic ownership, which means the foreign investor will need to work with a local partner if they want to form a PT.



In some cases, establishing a representative office might be a better option for a foreign investment company looking to do business in Indonesia. This allows the company to explore business opportunities through local networking and market research. After performing such due diligence, the company will be better informed before taking the next step of forming a Perseroan Terbatas.
What Is Personal Consumption Expenditures (PCE)?  

Personal consumption expenditures (PCE), also known as consumer spending, is a measure of the spending on goods and services by people of the United States. According to the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA), a U.S. government agency, PCE accounts for about two-thirds of domestic spending and is a significant driver of gross domestic product (GDP).



An estimated total for PCE is compiled by the BEA to measure and track changes in spending on consumer goods over time. This figure can provide an idea of economic strength and how price changes can affect spending.



Personal spending and income statistics are released monthly in the BEA Personal Income and Outlays report. The report also includes the latest calculation for the Personal Consumption Expenditures Price Index (PCEPI), which measures price changes and provides a view of inflation.





Key Takeaways

Personal consumption expenditures is a measure of consumer spending.PCE is constructed and reported by the Bureau of Economic Analysis, along with personal income and the PCE Price Index in the Personal Income and Outlays report.PCE includes how much is spent on goods (durable and non-durable) and services.The PCEPI is the method used by the Federal Reserve to measure inflation.The PCE figures can affect decisions about business offerings, hiring, and investments.


   Understanding Personal Consumption Expenditures (PCE)  

Consumer spending is an important factor that drives the U.S. economy and is a key part of GDP. That's why it is considered a leading economic indicator. PCE sheds light on buying habits and savings levels.



Economists and analysts use PCE to make projections about future spending and economic growth. It gives companies insight into their business needs concerning products and services and can affect hiring and investing. The BEA uses consumer spending to calculate its inflation gauge, the PCE Price Index, which is why measuring and tracking PCE is important.



Personal consumption expenditures have been reported by the BEA since 2012 in both current dollars and chained dollars. PCE is one of the three parts of the BEA's monthly Personal Income and Outlays report:



Personal income shows how much money consumers earn
Disposable personal income represents income available after taxes are paid
Personal consumption expenditures are called outlays or consumer spending


   The Personal Consumption Expenditures (PCE) Price Index  

In addition to reporting the three measurements above, the Personal Income and Outlays report includes the PCE Price Index (PCEPI) figures. The PCEPI measures the prices consumers pay for goods and services and changes in those prices. It is considered a gauge of inflation in the U.S. economy.



The PCE Price Index is calculated using PCE data. It may indicate whether prices are inflating or deflating and how consumer spending behavior changes in response.



The PCEPI provides two figures:



One is derived from all spending categories for PCEThe second excludes data for food and energy and is known as the core PCE price index



The core PCEPI can make an underlying inflation trend more visible. That's because food and energy prices can obscure it due to their more frequent volatility compared to other prices.


  Tracking the PCE Price Index  

The BEA uses the current dollar value of PCE to calculate the PCE Price Index. As mentioned, PCEPI shows price inflation or deflation that occurs from one period to the next. Like most price indexes, the PCEPI must incorporate a deflator (the PCE deflator) and real values to determine the amount of periodic price change.



Both the PCE Price Index and the Core PCE Price Index (which, again, excludes prices for food and energy) show how much prices change from one period to another. Breakdowns of the PCEPI show price inflation/deflation by category as well.


  Fed Preference for the PCE Price Index  

In 2012, the PCE Price Index became the primary inflation index used by the Federal Reserve when making monetary policy decisions. The Fed prefers the PCEPI over the comparable Consumer Price Index (CPI) because:



The PCEPI better reflects changes to consumer spending, such as selecting substitute goods due to price changesIt covers a broader range of spendingPast information can be adjusted to support recent information



The PCEPI is also weighted by data acquired through business surveys, which tend to be more reliable than the consumer surveys used by the CPI. PCEPI also uses a formula that allows for changes in consumer behavior and changes that occur in the short term.



These factors result in a more comprehensive measure of inflation. The Fed depends on the nuances that the PCEPI reveals because even minimal inflation can be considered an indicator of a growing economy.



Other measures of inflation tracked by economists include the Producer Price Index (PPI) and the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) Price Index.






Personal consumption expenditures and the PCE Price Index are two different measurements. PCE measures consumer spending on goods and services, while the PCEPI measures the prices of those goods and services. The Bureau of Economic Analysis calculates the figures for both.


   How PCE Is Measured  

The BEA reports the total value of personal consumption expenditures collectively every month. Like most economic breakdowns, PCE is split between consumer goods and services. Durable goods and nondurable goods are components of the consumer goods figure.



Durable goods are items that last longer than three years. Examples include cars, electronics, appliances, and furniture. Nondurable goods have a life expectancy of under three years. These include products like cosmetics, gasoline, and clothing. Services are tasks performed for the benefit of the recipient. Examples of services are legal advice, house cleaning, and plumbing.



Specifically, the categories represented in PCE data include the following:



Durable Goods: Motor vehicles and parts, furnishings and durable household equipment, recreational goods and vehicles, and other durable goodsNondurable Goods: Food and beverages purchased for off-premises consumption, clothing and footwear, gasoline and other energy goods, and other nondurable goodsServices: Housing and utilities, healthcare, transportation services, recreation services, food services and accommodations, financial services and insurance, and other services



BEA measures consumer spending for the nation and is broken down by state and the District of Columbia. While it issues the aforementioned monthly report, additional details are provided annually.



According to the BEA, most PCE (valued by market prices, including sales tax) comes from household purchases of new goods and services from private businesses. It also includes household purchases of new goods and services from the government.



PCE also consists of spending by nonprofit institutions to provide services to households, household purchases of used goods, and the purchases of goods and services by U.S. residents in foreign countries.



PCE also includes spending on behalf of households by third parties, such as employer-paid health insurance and medical care financed through government programs, life insurance expenses, and pension plan expenses.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of PCE  
  Advantages  

Personal consumption expenditures data provide a view of how the economy is faring. This information is important for economic policy purposes and business decision-making.



When people spend without hesitation, it usually means that the economy is doing well. When they cut back on spending, it points to problems in the overall economic picture.



PCE estimates aggregate spending for a large number of commodities. This can provide a view of spending that accounts for more goods and services actually purchased.


  Disadvantages  

PCE data may reflect measurement errors that occur during collection and in source data provided to the BEA. It may also reflect classification errors (after collection) in the personal sector and other sectors comprising the national accounts (PCE is part of the National Income and Product Accounts constructed by the BEA).



Prior PCE figures are subject to revision every year. That can result in different measurements over extended periods. Some observers feel that this reflects the inability to value personal consumption expenditures accurately.





Pros

Provides a view of how the economy is faring
Reports aggregate spending on a broad range of goods and services
Changes in spending can indicate a growing economy or economic difficulties for households



Cons

May reflect data collection errors
May reflect data classification errors after collection
Figures are estimates and can be revised, which can change results over time





   Recent PCE Readings  

For the latest figure (July 2023), personal income was $22.87 trillion. This represents an increase of 0.2% from the previous month. Disposable personal income remained fairly flat at $15.67 trillion. PCE grew 0.8% to $18.53 trillion. The PCE Price Index increased by 0.2%.




What Is the Importance of the Personal Consumption Expenditures Number?
The personal consumption expenditures number shows how Americans collectively spend their money. Tracked from month to month, it is an indicator of the economy's health overall. It also is a key component of the PCE Price Index, which tracks inflation or deflation in consumer prices over time.




PCE Price Index vs. Consumer Price Index
The CPI is compiled monthly by the Bureau of Labor Statistics based on a survey of urban households. It measures the price of a basket of household goods and services that most people buy regularly. The PCE, produced monthly by the Bureau of Economic Analysis, also records changes in the prices of a basket of goods from month to month.




What Does the PCE Data Show Us?
The PCE data for June 2023 showed an increase in personal consumption expenditures to $18.4 trillion; a 0.5% increase. That number contributed to an overall PCE Price Index growth of 0.2%.


   The Bottom Line  

Personal consumption expenditures, or PCE, allows economists, consumers, and businesses to see how well the economy is faring from month to month.



It measures how consumers spend their money and whether they save rather than spend. It also shows how people change their buying habits when prices change. This provides a window into demand for products and services which can help governments and businesses make decisions.
What Is Personal Finance?  

Personal finance is a term that covers managing your money as well as saving and investing. It encompasses budgeting, banking, insurance, mortgages, investments, and retirement, tax, and estate planning. The term often refers to the entire industry that provides financial services to individuals and households and advises them about financial and investment opportunities.



Individual goals and desires—and a plan to fulfill those needs within your financial constraints—also impact how you approach the above items. To make the most of your income and savings, it’s essential to become financially savvy—it will help you distinguish between good and bad advice and make intelligent financial decisions.





Key Takeaways

Few schools have courses on managing your money, so it is important to learn how through free online articles, courses, blogs, podcasts, or books.The core areas of managing personal finance include income, spending, savings, investments, and protection.Smart personal finance involves developing strategies that include budgeting, creating an emergency fund, paying off debt, using credit cards wisely, saving for retirement, and much more.Being disciplined is important, but it’s also good to know when you shouldn't adhere to the guidelines.


   The Importance of Personal Finance  

Personal finance is about meeting your personal financial goals. These goals could be anything—having enough for short-term financial needs, planning for retirement, or saving for your child’s college education. It depends on your income, spending, saving, investing, and personal protection (insurance and estate planning).



Not understanding how to manage finances or be financially disciplined has led Americans to accumulate enormous debt. In August 2022, household debt had increased by $2 trillion since December 2019. In addition, the following balances increased from the first quarter of 2022 to the second:



Credit card balances: Up by $46 billionAuto loans: Up by $33 billionConsumer loans and store cards: Up by $25 billionTotal non-housing: Up by $103 billionMortgages: Up by $207 billion



Student loans remained unchanged, at about $1.59 trillion.



Americans are taking on an ever-increasing amount of debt to finance purchases, making managing personal finances more critical than ever, especially when inflation is eating away at purchasing power and prices are rising.


   Areas of Personal Finance  

The five areas of personal finance are income, saving, spending, investing, and protection.


  Income  

Income is the starting point of personal finance. It is the entire amount of cash inflow that you receive and can allocate to expenses, savings, investments, and protection. Income is all the money you bring in. This includes salaries, wages, dividends, and other sources of cash inflow.


  Spending  

Spending is an outflow of cash and typically where the bulk of income goes. Spending is whatever an individual uses their income to buy. This includes rent, mortgage, groceries, hobbies, eating out, home furnishings, home repairs, travel, and entertainment.



Being able to manage spending is a critical aspect of personal finance. Individuals must ensure their spending is less than their income; otherwise, they won't have enough money to cover their expenses or will fall into debt. Debt can be devastating financially, particularly with the high-interest rates credit cards charge.


  Saving  

Savings is the income left over after spending. Everyone should aim to have savings to cover large expenses or emergencies. However, this means not using all your income, which can be difficult. Regardless of the difficulty, everyone should strive to have at least a portion of savings to meet any fluctuations in income and spending—somewhere between three and 12 months of expenses.



Beyond that, cash idling in a savings account becomes wasteful because it loses purchasing power to inflation over time. Instead, cash not tied up in an emergency or spending account should be placed in something that will help it maintain its value or grow, such as investments.


  Investing  

Investing involves purchasing assets, usually stocks and bonds, to earn a return on the money invested. Investing aims to increase an individual's wealth beyond the amount they invested. Investing does come with risks, as not all assets appreciate and can incur a loss.



Investing can be difficult for those unfamiliar with it—it helps to dedicate some time to gain an understanding through readings and studying. If you don't have time, you might benefit from hiring a professional to help you invest your money.


  Protection  

Protection refers to the methods people take to protect themselves from unexpected events, such as illnesses or accidents, and as a means to preserve wealth. Protection includes life and health insurance and estate and retirement planning.


   Personal Finance Services  

Several financial planning services fall under one or more of the five areas. You're likely to find many businesses that provide these services to clients to help them plan and manage their finances. These services include:



Wealth ManagementLoans and DebtBudgetingRetirementTaxesRisk ManagementEstate PlanningInvestmentsInsuranceCredit CardsHome and Mortgage


   Personal Finance Strategies  

The sooner you start financial planning, the better, but it’s never too late to create financial goals to give yourself and your family financial security and freedom. Here are the best practices and tips for personal finance.






The 2022 Investopedia Financial Literacy Survey surveyed 4,000 adults and found that most Americans are concerned about personal finance basics, retirement funding, and investing in crypto.


  1. Know Your income  

It's all for nothing if you don't know how much you bring home after taxes and withholding. So before deciding anything, ensure you know exactly how much take-home pay you receive.


  2. Devise a Budget  

A budget is essential to living within your means and saving enough to meet your long-term goals. The 50/30/20 budgeting method offers a great framework. It breaks down like this:



Fifty percent of your take-home pay or net income (after taxes) goes toward living essentials, such as rent, utilities, groceries, and transport.
Thirty percent is allocated to discretionary expenses, such as dining out and shopping for clothes. Giving to charity can go here as well.
Twenty percent goes toward the future—paying down debt and saving for retirement and emergencies.



It’s never been easier to manage money, thanks to a growing number of smartphone personal budgeting apps that put day-to-day finances in the palm of your hand. Here are just two examples:



YNAB (an acronym for You Need a Budget) helps you track and adjust your spending to control every dollar you spend.
Mint streamlines cash flow, budgets, credit cards, bills, and investment tracking from one place. It automatically updates and categorizes your financial data as information comes in, so you always know where you stand financially. The app will even dish out custom tips and advice.


  3. Pay Yourself First  

It’s important to “pay yourself first” to ensure money is set aside for unexpected expenses, such as medical bills, a significant car repair, day-to-day expenses if you get laid off, and more. The ideal safety net is three to 12 months of living expenses.



Financial experts generally recommend putting away 20% of each paycheck every month. Once you’ve filled up your emergency fund, don’t stop. Continue funneling the monthly 20% toward other financial goals, such as a retirement fund or a down payment on a home.


  4. Limit and Reduce Debt  

It sounds simple enough: Don't spend more than you earn to keep debt from getting out of hand. But, of course, most people have to borrow from time to time, and sometimes going into debt can be advantageous—for example, if it leads to acquiring an asset. Taking out a mortgage to buy a house might be one such case. Still, leasing sometimes can be more economical than buying outright, whether renting a property, leasing a car, or even getting a subscription to computer software.



On the other hand, minimizing repayments (to interest only, for instance) can free up income to invest elsewhere or put into retirement savings while you’re young when your nest egg gets the maximum benefit from compounding interest. Some private and federal loans are even eligible for a rate reduction if the borrower enrolls in auto pay.



Student loans account for $1.59 trillion of consumer debt—if you have an outstanding student loan, you should prioritize it. There are myriad loan repayment plans and payment reduction strategies available. If you’re stuck with a high interest rate, paying off the principal faster can make sense.



Flexible federal repayment programs worth checking out include:



Graduated repayment—progressively increases the monthly payment over 10 yearsExtended repayment—stretches out the loan over a period that can be as long as 25 yearsIncome-driven repayment—limits payments to 10% to 15% of your income (based on your income and family size)


  5. Only Borrow What You Can Repay  

Credit cards can be major debt traps, but it’s unrealistic not to own any in the contemporary world. Furthermore, they have applications beyond buying things. They are crucial to establishing your credit rating and a great way to track spending, which can be a considerable budgeting aid.



Credit needs to be managed correctly, meaning you should pay off your entire balance every month or keep your credit utilization ratio at a minimum (that is, keep your account balances below 30% of your total available credit).



Given the extraordinary reward and incentives offered these days (such as cashback), it makes sense to charge as many purchases as possible—if you can pay your bills in full.






Avoid maxing out credit cards at all costs, and always pay bills on time. One of the fastest ways to ruin your credit score is to constantly pay bills late—or even worse, miss payments.



Using a debit card, which takes money directly from your bank account, is another way to ensure that you will not be paying for accumulated small purchases over an extended period with interest.


  6. Monitor Your Credit Score  

Credit cards are the primary vehicle through which your credit score is built and maintained, so watching credit spending goes hand in hand with monitoring your credit score. If you ever want to obtain a lease, mortgage, or any other type of financing, then you’ll need a solid credit report. There are a variety of credit scores available, but the most popular one is the FICO score.



Factors that determine your FICO score include:



Payment history (35%)Amounts owed (30%)Length of credit history (15%)Credit mix (10%)New credit (10%)



FICO scores are calculated from 300 to 850. Here’s how your credit is rated:



Exceptional: 800 to 850Very good: 740 to 799Good: 670 to 739Fair: 580 to 669Very poor: 300 to 579



To pay bills, set up direct debiting where possible (so you never miss a payment) and subscribe to reporting agencies that provide regular credit score updates. In addition, you can detect and address mistakes or fraudulent activity by monitoring your credit report. Federal law allows you to obtain free credit reports once a year from the “Big Three” major credit bureaus: Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion.



Reports can be obtained directly from each agency, or you can sign up at AnnualCreditReport.com, a federally authorized site sponsored by the Big Three.



Some credit card providers, such as Capital One, will provide customers with complimentary, regular credit score updates, but it may not be your FICO score. All of the above offer your VantageScore.






Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the three major credit bureaus are providing free credit reports weekly through at least December 2022.


  7. Plan for Your Future  

To protect the assets in your estate and ensure that your wishes are followed when you die, be sure you make a will and—depending on your needs—possibly set up one or more trusts. You also should look into insurance and find ways to reduce your premiums, if possible: auto, home, life, disability, and long-term care (LTC). Periodically review your policy to ensure it meets your family’s needs through life’s major milestones.



Other critical documents include a living will and a healthcare power of attorney. While not all of these documents directly affect you, all of them can save your next of kin considerable time and expense when you fall ill or become otherwise incapacitated.



Retirement may seem like a lifetime away, but it arrives much sooner than expected. Experts suggest that most people will need about 80% of their current salary in retirement. The younger you start, the more you benefit from what advisors call the magic of compounding interest—how small amounts grow over time.



Setting aside money now for your retirement not only allows it to grow over the long term but also can reduce your current income taxes if funds are placed in a tax-advantaged plan, such as an individual retirement account (IRA), a 401(k), or a 403(b).






While your children are young, take the time to teach them about the value of money and how to save, invest, and spend wisely.



If your employer offers a 401(k) or 403(b) plan, start paying into it immediately, especially if your employer matches your contribution. By not doing so, you’re giving up free money. Take time to learn the difference between a Roth 401(k) and a traditional 401(k) if your company offers both.



Investing is only one part of planning for retirement. Other strategies include waiting as long as possible before opting to receive Social Security benefits (which is smart for most people) and converting a term life insurance policy to permanent life.


  8. Buy Insurance  

As you age, it's natural for you to accumulate many of the same things your parents did—a family, home or apartment, belongings, and health issues. Insurance can be expensive if you wait too long to get it. Health care, long-term care insurance, life insurance; it all increases in cost the older you get. Additionally, you never know what life will send your way. If you're the sole breadwinner for the family, or you and your partner both work to make ends meet, a lot depends on your ability to work.



Insurance can cover most of the hospital bills as you age, leaving your hard-earned savings in your family's hands; medical expenses are one of the leading reasons for debt. If something happens to you, life insurance can give those you leave behind a buffer zone to deal with the loss and get back on their feet financially.


  9. Maximize Tax Breaks  

Due to an overly complex tax code, many people leave hundreds or even thousands of dollars sitting on the table every year. By maximizing your tax savings, you’ll free up money that can be invested in your reduction of past debts, enjoyment of the present, and plans for the future.



You should start saving receipts and tracking expenditures for all possible tax deductions and tax credits. Many office supply stores sell helpful “tax organizers” that have the main categories already labeled.



After you’re organized, you’ll want to focus on taking advantage of every tax deduction and credit available, as well as deciding between the two when necessary. In short, a tax deduction reduces the amount of income on which you are taxed, whereas a tax credit reduces the amount of tax that you owe. This means that a $1,000 tax credit will save you much more than a $1,000 deduction.


  10. Give Yourself a Break  

Budgeting and planning can seem full of deprivations. Make sure you reward yourself now and then. Whether it’s a vacation, a purchase, or an occasional night on the town, you need to enjoy the fruits of your labor. Doing so gives you a taste of the financial independence you’re working so hard for.



Last but not least, don’t forget to delegate when needed. Even though you might be competent enough to do your own taxes or manage a portfolio of individual stocks, it doesn’t mean you should. Setting up an account at a brokerage and spending a few hundred dollars on a certified public accountant (CPA) or a financial planner—at least once—might be a good way to jump-start your planning.


   Personal Finance Skills  

The key to getting your finances on the right track is using skills you likely already have. It’s also about understanding that the principles that contribute to success in business and your career work just as well in personal money management. Three key skills are finance prioritization, assessing the costs and benefits, and restraining your spending.



Finance Prioritization: This means that you can look at your finances, discern what keeps the money flowing in, and make sure that you stay focused on those efforts.
Assessing the Costs and Benefits: This key skill keeps professionals from spreading themselves too thin. Ambitious individuals always have a list of ideas about other ways that they can hit it big, whether it is a side business or an investment idea. While there is a place and time for taking a flier, running your finances like a business means stepping back and honestly assessing the potential costs and benefits of any new venture.
Restraining Your Spending: This is the final big-picture skill of successful business management that must be applied to personal finances. Time and again, financial planners sit down with successful people who still manage to spend more than they make. Earning $250,000 a year won’t do you much good if you spend $275,000 annually. Learning to restrain spending on non-wealth-building assets until after you’ve met your monthly savings or debt reduction goals is crucial in building net worth.


   Personal Finance Education  

Personal money management isn't one of the most popular topics in educational systems. Many college degrees require some financial education, but it isn't geared toward individuals, which means that most of us will need to get our personal finance education from our parents (if we’re lucky) or learn it ourselves.



Fortunately, you don’t have to spend much money to find out how to manage it better. You can learn everything you need to know for free online and in library books. Almost all media publications regularly dole out personal finance advice, too.


  Online Blogs  

Reading personal finance blogs is a great way to start learning about personal finance. Instead of the general advice you’ll get in personal finance articles, you’ll learn exactly which challenges real people face and how they address them.



Mr. Money Mustache has hundreds of posts full of insights on escaping the rat race and retiring early by making unconventional lifestyle choices. CentSai helps you navigate myriad financial decisions via first-person accounts. Million Mile Secrets and The Points Guy each teach you how to travel for a fraction of the retail price using credit card rewards. These sites often link to other blogs, so you’ll discover more sites as you read.



Of course, we can’t help tooting our own horn in this category. Investopedia offers a wealth of free personal finance education. You might start with our special sections on budgeting, buying a home, and planning for retirement—or the thousands of other articles in our personal finance section. And don’t forget to listen to “The Investopedia Express with Caleb Silver,” our weekly podcast, and sign up for Investopedia newsletters.


  At the Library  

You may need to visit your library in person to get a library card if you don’t already have one, but after that, you can check out personal finance audiobooks and e-books online without leaving home. Some of the following best sellers may be available from your local library: I Will Teach You to Be Rich, The Millionaire Next Door, Your Money or Your Life, and Rich Dad Poor Dad. Personal finance classics such as Personal Finance for Dummies, The Total Money Makeover, The Little Book of Common Sense Investing, and Think and Grow Rich are also available as audiobooks.


  Free Online Classes  

If you enjoy the structure of lessons and quizzes, try one of these free digital personal finance courses:



Morningstar Investing Classroom offers a place for beginning and experienced investors alike to learn about stocks, funds, bonds, and portfolios. Some of the courses you’ll find include “Stocks Versus Other Investments,” “Methods for Investing in Mutual Funds,” “Determining Your Asset Mix,” and “Introduction to Government Bonds.” Each course takes about 10 minutes and is followed by a quiz to help you make sure that you understood the lesson.
EdX is an online learning platform created by Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. It offers at least three courses that cover personal finance: “How to Save Money: Making Smart Financial Decisions” from the University of California at Berkeley, “Personal Finance” from Purdue University, and “Finance for Everyone: Smart Tools for Decision-Making” from the University of Michigan. These courses will teach you how credit works, which types of insurance you might want to carry, how to maximize your retirement savings, how to read your credit report, and what the time value of money is.
“Planning for a Secure Retirement” is an online course from Purdue University. It’s broken up into 10 main modules, and each has four to six sub-modules on topics such as Social Security, 401(k) and 403(b) plans, and IRAs. You’ll learn about your risk tolerance, think about what kind of retirement lifestyle you want, and estimate your retirement expenses.
“Personal Finance” is a free online video course from Missouri State University through iTunes. This basic course is good for beginners who want to learn about personal financial statements and budgets, how to use consumer credit wisely, and how to make decisions about cars and housing.


  Podcasts  

Personal finance podcasts are a great way to learn how to manage your money if you’re short on free time. While you’re getting ready in the morning, exercising, driving to work, running errands, or preparing for bed, you can listen to expert advice on becoming more financially secure. In addition to “The Investopedia Express with Caleb Silver,” you may find these valuable:



The Dave Ramsey Show is a call-in program that you can listen to any time through your favorite podcast app. You’ll learn about the financial problems that real people are facing and how a multimillionaire who was once broke himself recommends solving them.Freakonomics Radio and NPR’s Planet Money both make economics enjoyable by using it to explain real-world phenomena such as “how we got from mealy, nasty apples to apples that actually taste delicious,” the Wells Fargo fake-accounts scandal, and whether we should still be using cash.American Public Media’s Marketplace helps make sense of what’s happening in the business world and the economy.So Money with Farnoosh Torabi combines interviews with successful business people, expert advice, and listeners’ personal finance questions.



The most important thing is to find resources that work for your learning style and that you find interesting and engaging. If one blog, book, course, or podcast is dull or difficult to understand, keep trying until you find something that clicks.



Education shouldn’t stop once you learn the basics. The economy changes, and new financial tools like the budgeting apps mentioned earlier are always being developed. Find resources you enjoy and trust, and keep refining your money skills through retirement and beyond.


   What Personal Finance Classes Can’t Teach You  

Personal finance education is a great idea for consumers, especially people starting out who want to learn investing basics or about credit management; however, understanding the basic concepts is not a guaranteed path to financial sense. Human nature can often derail the best intentions to achieve a perfect credit score or build a substantial retirement nest egg. These three key character traits can help you stay on track:


  Discipline  

One of the most important tenets of personal finance is systematic saving. For example, say your net earnings are $60,000 per year, and your monthly living expenses—housing, food, transportation, and the like—amount to $3,200 per month.



There are choices to make surrounding your remaining $1,800 in monthly salary. Ideally, the first step is to establish an emergency fund or perhaps a tax-advantaged health savings account (HSA).






To be eligible for a health savings account, your health insurance must be a high-deductible health plan (HDHP).



Establishing an emergency fund takes financial discipline—without it, giving in to the temptation to spend rather than save can have dire consequences. In the event of an emergency, you may not have the money to pay the expenses—leading you to finance them through debt.



Once you have your emergency stash, you'll need to develop investing discipline—it’s not just for institutional money managers who make their living buying and selling stocks. Average retail investors tend to do better by setting an investment target and abiding by it rather than buying and selling stocks trying to time the market.


  A Sense of Timing  

Timing can be crucial. For instance, imagine you're three years out of college, have established your emergency fund, and want to reward yourself. A Jet Ski costs $3,000, but you want to start investing also. "Investing in growth stocks can wait another year," you say. "I have plenty of time to launch an investment portfolio."



However, putting off investing for one year can have significant consequences. The opportunity cost of buying a personal watercraft can be illustrated through the time value of money.



The $3,000 used to buy the Jet Ski would have amounted to nearly $49,000 in 40 years at 7% interest, a reasonable average annual return for a growth mutual fund over the long haul. Thus, delaying the decision to invest wisely may likewise delay the ability to reach your goal of retiring at age 65.



Doing tomorrow what you could do today also extends to debt payment. If you were to put the Jet Ski on your credit card, the $3,000 credit card balance would take 222 months (18.5 years) to pay off if you only made minimum payments of $75 each month. And don’t forget the interest you’re paying: at an 18% annual percentage rate (APR), it comes to $3,923 over those months. So, if you were to plunk down the $3,000 to pay the balance rather than let it compound, you'd see substantial savings—nearly $1,000.


  Emotional Detachment  

Personal finance matters are business, and business should not be personal. A difficult but necessary facet of sound financial decision-making involves removing emotions from a transaction.



Making impulsive purchases feels good but can significantly impact long-term investment goals. So can making unwise loans to family members. Your cousin Fred, who has already burned your brother and sister, will likely not pay you back, either. The smart thing to do is decline his requests for help—you're trying to make ends meet also.



The key to prudent personal financial management is to separate feelings from reason. However, when loved ones are experiencing real trouble, it pays to help if you can—just try not to take it out of your investments and retirement.






Many people have loved ones who always seem to need financial help—it is difficult to refuse to help them. If you include planning to assist them in real emergencies using your emergency fund, it can make the burden easier.


   Breaking Personal Finance Rules  

The personal finance realm may have more guidelines and tips to follow than any other. Although these rules are good to know, everyone has their own circumstances. Here are some rules prudent people, especially young adults, are never supposed to break—but can break if necessary.


  Saving or Investing a Set Portion of Your Income  

An ideal budget includes saving a portion of your paycheck every month for retirement—usually around 10% to 20%. However, while being fiscally responsible is important and thinking about your future is crucial, the general rule of saving a given amount for retirement may not always be the best choice, especially for young people just getting started.



For one thing, many young adults and students need to consider paying for their biggest expenses, such as a new car, home, or postsecondary education. Taking away 10% to 20% of available funds would be a definite setback in making those purchases.



Additionally, saving for retirement doesn’t make much sense if you have credit cards or interest-bearing loans to pay off. The 19% interest rate on your Visa card probably would negate the returns you get from your balanced mutual fund retirement portfolio five times over.



Finally, saving money to travel and experience new places and cultures can be especially rewarding for a young person who’s still unsure about their life path.


  Long-term Investing/Investing in Riskier Assets  

The rule of thumb for young investors is that they should have a long-term outlook and stick to a buy-and-hold philosophy. This rule is one of the easier ones to justify breaking. Adapting to changing markets can be the difference between making money or limiting your losses and sitting idly by and watching your hard-earned savings shrink. Short-term investing has its advantages at any age.



Common investing logic suggests that because young investors have such a long investment time horizon, they should be investing in higher-risk ventures; after all, they have the rest of their lives to recover from any losses that they may suffer; however, you don’t have to take on undue risk in your short- to medium-term investments if you don’t want to.



The idea of diversification is an important part of creating a strong investment portfolio; this includes both the riskiness of individual stocks and their intended investment horizon.



At the other end of the age spectrum, investors near and at retirement are encouraged to cut back to the safest investments—even though these may yield less than inflation—to preserve capital. Taking fewer risks is important as the number of years you have to earn money and recover from bad financial times dwindles, but at age 60 or 65, you could have 20, 30, or even more years to go. Some growth investments could still make sense for you.


   Frequently Asked Questions  


What Is Personal Finance?
Personal finance is the knowledge, instruments, and techniques used to manage your finances. When you understand the principles and concepts behind personal finance, you can manage debt, savings, living expenses, and retirement savings.




What Are the 5 Main Components of Personal Finance?
The five main components are income, spending, savings, investing, and protection.




What Is an Example of Personal Finance?
One of the key ideas behind personal finance is not to spend more than you make. For instance, if you make $50,000 a year but spend $65,000, you'll end up with debt that continues to compound because you'll be spending more than you make to pay for past expenses.




Why Is Personal Finance So Important?
The concepts behind managing your personal finances can guide you in making intelligent financial decisions. In addition, the decisions you make throughout your life on what to buy, sell, hold, or own can affect how you live when you can no longer work.


   The Bottom Line  

Personal finance is managing your money to cover expenses and save for the future. It is a topic that covers a broad array of areas, including managing expenses and debt, how to save and invest, and how to plan for retirement. In addition, it can include ways to protect yourself with insurance, build wealth, and ensure wealth is passed on to the people you want it to pass to.



Understanding how to manage your finances is an important life-planning tool that can help set you up for a life without debt; you gain control of financial stresses and have a way to manage the expensive surprises that life can throw at you.
What Is a Personal Financial Specialist (PFS)?  

A Personal Financial Specialist (PFS) is a certification for certified public accountants (CPAs) that allows them to expand their expertise and offerings to include financial planning and wealth management.



The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) established the Personal Financial Specialist (PFS) credential, which is reserved for CPAs, meaning holding a CPA is a prerequisite.



There are both educational and professional requirements that must be met before earning a PFS. However, the benefits of holding a PFS are numerous, which include expanded employment opportunities with corporations, consulting firms, and the ability to manage or own a wealth management practice.





Key Takeaways

A Personal Financial Specialist (PFS) is a certification for certified public accountants (CPAs), allowing them to expand their expertise to include financial planning and wealth management.PFS applicants study estate planning, retirement planning, investing, insurance, and other areas of personal financial planning.Individuals with the PFS designation may work for accounting firms, consulting firms, or run their own wealth management practices.There are requirements to achieve a PFS designation, including a CPA license, education, a specified level of experience, and passing an examination.An added benefit to the PFS is that candidates know financial planning but also have extensive tax and corporate finance expertise as a CPA.


   Understanding a Personal Financial Specialist (PFS)  

A Personal Financial Specialist (PFS) certification is exclusively granted to CPAs. According to the AICPA, a PFS certification represents "a powerful combination of extensive tax expertise comprehensive knowledge of financial planning."



PFS applicants study estate planning, retirement planning, investing, insurance, and other areas of personal financial planning. Individuals with the PFS designation may work for accounting firms, consulting firms, or manage their own firm.



Earning the Personal Financial Specialist (PFS) means that individuals have earned the right to use the PFS designation with their names, which can improve job opportunities, professional reputation, and pay.


   Personal Financial Specialist (PFS) Requirements  

There are four major requirements that are necessary to achieve a personal financial specialist designation, including a CPA license, education, a specified level of experience, and passing an examination. Some of those requirements are outlined below:


  CPA License and AICPA Member  

Candidates must obtain or hold an unrevoked and valid CPA certification that has been issued by a state. The candidate must also be a current Regular member of the AICPA.


  Education and Experience Requirements  

There are two pathways that candidates can choose from, depending on their level of experience.



The Standard and Certificate pathways have the following requirements:



Possess 3000 hours of business experience in personal financial planning within the five years previous to applying for CPA/PFS or be a full-time professor having taught at least four accredited courses, of which 50% of the curriculum is in the PFP Body of Knowledge.Up to 1,000 hours of tax compliance experience can count towards the total experience required for the PFSA minimum of 75 hours of personal financial planning education in the five years preceding application for the PFS (Standard Pathway) or study three to five online certificate modules and pass an online exam (Certificate Pathway).



The Experienced pathway has the following requirements:



Possess five years of full-time experience (or 7,500 hours equivalent) in personal financial planning within the past seven yearsThe AICPA states that up to 2,000 hours of tax compliance experience can count towards the total experience required for the PFSEarn a minimum of 105 hours of personal financial planning education within the seven-year period preceding the application dateCompleted the PFS Experienced CPA Education course



A Reinstatement pathway is also available and includes agreeing to the Reinstatement terms.



According to the PFS credential handbook, regardless of the pathway, the education and experience must be in any of the 12 areas that make up the personal financial planning (PFP) Body of Knowledge. The AICPA offers educational courses for personal financial planning covering the topics within those 12 areas. However, certain approved courses from an accredited university or college may be accepted as substitutes.


  PFP Body of Knowledge  

The 12 areas that comprise the PFP Body of Knowledge for the education and experience requirements are listed below:



Personal Financial Planning Process: Includes helping clients establish financial goals, gather data, and build client relationshipsProfessional Responsibilities, Legislative, and Regulatory Compliance: Includes complying with any licensing requirements from state and federal authoritiesFundamental Financial Planning Concepts: Includes budgeting, analyzing cash flow, income, and spending patternsEstate Planning: Includes establishing an estate financial plan to determine cash needs in the event of death and potential tax liabilitiesCharitable Planning: Involves determining the assets to be allocated for charitable giving and the various types of products available, such as trusts and life insuranceRisk Management Planning: Includes determining a client's financial risks, including disability, illness, and property damage, as well as reviewing the available products to mitigate those risksEmployee and Business Owner Planning: Includes executive compensation, options, the various benefits available for employees, and tax implicationsInvestment Planning: Involves the review of a client's capital gains and losses, risk tolerance, and investment preferences to determine an appropriate investment strategyRetirement and Financial Planning: Includes determining a client's cash needs in retirement, financial goals, and the savings needed to meet those goalsElder and Chronic Illness Planning: Includes helping clients understand the various care and housing options while developing a plan for financial expensesEducation Planning: Involves assisting clients with education planning and funding strategiesSpecial Situations: Includes defining housing goals, income needs and determining the division of assets in the event of a divorce


  Continuing Education  

Also, every year, PFS professionals must complete 20 hours of continuing professional education. Annually, they must pay a fee of several hundred dollars to continue using the designation.






A personal financial specialist (PFS) designation offers CPAs the ability to stand out from other financial planners while offering clients an expert who can develop a well-rounded financial strategy.


   Personal Financial Specialist (PFS) Exam  

The exam requirement for the PFS is extensive, covering the financial planning process and professional responsibilities with topics such as tax, retirement, investments, insurance, and estate planning.



The PFS exam consists of 160 questions, half of which are standalone multiple-choice, while the remainder includes case studies with accompanying multiple-choice questions.  



The PFS Experience pathway examination includes a total of 60 questions with one part for each of four case studies. Those who are on the Certificate pathway must pass four 100-minute tests.



The AICPA provides a brief video tutorial that features a mock exam session. The exam can be taken at one of the testing centers or online with a laptop or through a proctored exam via webcam. Candidates are allocated five hours to complete it, as well as a 30-minute break. Experience pathway exams take about 100 minutes,"



Exempt from the PFS exam are CPAs who have passed the Certified Financial Planner (CFP) or Chartered Financial Consultant (ChFC) exams. They are deemed to have met the exam requirement.


   Benefits of a Personal Financial Specialist (PFS)  

Benefits exist for those who hold a PFS certification and clients looking for a financial professional to help them develop a financial plan for the long term.



Professionals have the ability to display their financial expertise by demonstrating their knowledge of financial planning, which can help attract new clients. The PFS certificate can enhance a professional's reputation and professional brand, thus improving career opportunities with the potential of boosting income. An added benefit to the PFS is that candidates have knowledge of financial planning, but they have extensive tax and corporate finance expertise as a CPA.



A CPA who holds a PFS can be particularly beneficial for clients who are looking to develop a financial plan that aligns with their long-term goals while also receiving the benefit of tax and accounting services. Another benefit to clients is that they gain access to a professional who is an expert in elder and estate planning and wealth preservation and retirement income.


   PFS vs. CFP  

Although the personal financial specialist and certified financial planner (CFP) have many similarities, there are distinct differences between the two designations. CPAs with a PFS certification have a well-rounded knowledge of accounting, tax, financial statements, and wealth management. However, a CFP is considered a type of financial advisor since it is given out by the Certified Planner Board of Standards, Inc.



As a result, there is a fiduciary responsibility that CFP's must adhere to, meaning they must provide financial advice that is in the best interest of their clients. CFPs must follow a strict code of ethics as outlined by the Certified Planner Board of Standard’s code of ethics.



Similar to a PFS designation, to earn a CFP, an individual must have 6,000 hours of professional experience and hold a bachelor’s degree from an accredited university. Also, both the CFP and PFS certifications allow candidates to waive some of the requirements if they hold a CFA. However, the CFP does not require candidates to have a prior certification, which contrasts with the PFS prerequisite of holding a CPA certification.



The benefits and employment opportunities of holding a CFP or PFS are numerous, and both certifications offer careers in personal financial planning, retirement, and tax planning. While a CFP allows an individual to offer investment planning, a PFS allows an individual to offer financial management at a corporate finance level due to the CPA certification.
What Is a Personal Financial Statement?  

The term personal financial statement refers to a document or spreadsheet that outlines an individual's financial position at a given point in time. The statement typically includes general information about the individual, such as name and address, along with a breakdown of total assets and liabilities. The statement can help individuals track their financial goals and wealth, and can be used when they apply for credit.





Key Takeaways

A personal financial statement lists all assets and liabilities of an individual or couple.An individual's net worth is determined by subtracting their liabilities from their assets—a positive net worth shows more assets than liabilities.Net worth can fluctuate over time as the values of asset and liabilities change.Personal financial statements are helpful for tracking wealth and goals, as well as applying for credit.Although they may be included in a personal financial statement, income and expenses are generally placed on a separate sheet called the income statement.


   Understanding the Personal Financial Statement  

Financial statements can be prepared for either companies or individuals. An individual’s financial statement is referred to as a personal financial statement and is a simpler version of corporate statements. Both are tools that can show the financial health of the subject.



A personal financial statement shows the individual's net worth—their assets minus their liabilities—which reflects what that person has in cash if they sell all their assets and pay off all their debts. If their liabilities are greater than their assets, the financial statement indicates a negative net worth. If the individual has more assets than liabilities, they end up with a positive net worth.



Keeping an updated personal financial statement allows an individual to track how their financial health improves or deteriorates over time. These can be invaluable tools when consumers want to change their financial sitution or apply for credit such as a loan or a mortgage. Knowing where they stand financially allows consumers to avoid unnecessary inquiries on their credit reports and the hassles of declined credit applications.



The statement allows also credit officers to easily gain perspective into the applicant's financial situation in order to make an informed credit decision. In many cases, the individual or couple may be asked to provide a personal guarantee for part of the loan or they may be required to put up collateral to secure the loan.


   Special Considerations  

A personal financial statement is broken down into assets and liabilities. Assets include the value of securities and funds held in checking or savings accounts, retirement account balances, trading accounts, and real estate. Liabilities include any debts the individual may have including personal loans, credit cards, student loans, unpaid taxes, and mortgages. Debts that are jointly owned are also included. Married couples may create joint personal financial statements by combining their assets and liabilities.



Income and expenses are also included if the statement is used to attain credit or to show someone's overall financial position. This can be tracked on a separate sheet or an addendum, called the income statement. This includes all forms of income and expenses—typically expressed in the form of monthly or yearly amounts.



The following items are not included in a personal financial statement:



Business-related assets and liabilities: These are excluded unless the individual is directly and personally responsible. So if someone personally guarantees a loan for their business—similar to cosigning—the loan is included in their personal financial statement.
Rented items: Anything rented is not included in personal financial statements because the assets aren't owned. This changes if you own the property and rent it out to someone else. In this case, the value of the property is included in your asset list.
Personal property: Items such as furniture and household goods are typically not included as assets on a personal balance sheet because these items can’t easily be sold to pay off a loan. Personal property with significant value, such as jewelry and antiques, may be included if their value can be verified with an appraisal.






Business liabilities are only included in a personal financial statement if an individual provides the creditor with a personal guarantee.



Keep in mind. Your credit report and credit history are big considerations when it comes to getting new credit and every lender has different requirements for issuing credit. So, even if you have a positive net worth—more assets than liabilities—you may still be refused a loan or credit card if you haven't paid your previous debts on time or have too many inquiries on file.


   Example of a Personal Financial Statement  

Let's assume that River wants to track their net worth as they move toward retirement. They have been paying off debts, saving money, investing, and is getting closer to owning their home. Each year, they update the statement to see the progress they have made.



Here's how they would break it down. They would list all their assets—$20,000 for a car, $200,000 for their house, $300,000 in investments, and $50,000 in cash and equivalents. They also owns some highly collectible stamps and art valued at $20,000 that they can list. Their total assets are, therefore, $590,000. As for liabilities, River owes $5,000 on the car and $50,000 for their house. Although River makes all of their purchases with a credit card, they pay the balance off each month and never carries a balance. River cosigned a loan for their daughter and there is $10,000 remaining on that. Even though it is not River's loan, they are still responsible, so it is included in the statement. River's liabilities are $65,000.



When we subtract their liabilities from their assets, River's net worth is $525,000. Although they use it mainly to track their financial health, River can use this information—and the statement as a whole—if they want to apply for any other credit.
What Is a Personal Guarantee?  

The term personal guarantee refers to an individual’s legal promise to repay credit issued to a business for which they serve as an executive or partner. Providing a personal guarantee means that if the business becomes unable to repay the debt, the individual assumes personal responsibility for the balance. Personal guarantees provide an extra level of protection to credit issuers who want to make sure they will be repaid.





Key Takeaways

A personal guarantee is an individual’s legal promise to repay credit issued to a business for which they serve as an executive or partner. Personal guarantees help businesses get credit when they aren't as established or have an inadequate credit history to qualify on their own.Enforcing personal guarantees also mitigates the risk to creditors since they have a legal claim to an individual's assets.Business owners should read the terms and conditions of any credit application carefully for language that highlights personal liability.


   How Personal Guarantees Work  

Personal guarantees are used in credit deals to secure funding for businesses. They are used by new and small businesses—generally, for companies that may not be as established or for those with inadequate credit history to qualify for loans and other credit on their own. When a personal guarantee is given, the principals of the company pledge their own assets and agree to repay a debt from personal capital in case the company defaults. In short, the business owner or principal becomes a cosigner on the credit application.



Here's how it works. Lenders may require business owners or executives to provide a personal guarantee in order to access credit if the company is too new or has a bad credit history. The business principal includes their own credit history and profile as part of the credit application which forms the primary basis for underwriting. When a personal guarantee is used, the applicant includes their Social Security Number (SSN) for a hard credit inquiry as well as details about the individual’s personal income. This information is in addition to the company's employer identification number (EIN) and financial statements.



An executive may also pledge their own personal assets—checking accounts, savings accounts, cars, and real estate—and agree to repay a debt from personal capital in case the company defaults as part of their personal guarantee. Not only does this make credit more accessible to businesses, but it also mitigates the risk to creditors since they have a legal claim to the individual's personal assets. It also improves the terms which will be based on the profile of both the business and the individual in the underwriting process.



Small business owners and executives normally make a substantial initial investment using their own capital. That's one of the reasons why they offer personal guarantees to get credit—because they have a vested interest in the launch and development of their businesses. As such, businesses may be required to pay creditors monthly installment payments rather than generating a return for equity investors.


   Special Considerations  

Although well-established businesses with significant commercial credit profiles may be able to obtain credit without a personal guarantee, they may still use them in their applications. Credit with a personal guarantee can be a low-cost way for a business to obtain funds. But if the business isn't able to generate enough revenue and earnings, an individual could suffer significant losses. Remember, if a personal guarantee is used, the principal is personally liable if a default occurs. It gives creditors a legal right to all of an individual's pledged personal assets.



The New York Times report on former President Trump's taxes indicates that he took this route, personally guaranteeing "loans and other debts totaling $421 million" by 2018.﻿﻿﻿ This provided a benefit, as well—taking responsibility enables a business owner to use those losses to offset current and future taxes they owe.



Having said this, business owners should be especially careful when they apply for credit as terms may require a personal guarantee. Applicants should look for language in the credit application such as “you, as an individual and the authorizing officer of the company...are agreeing to be jointly and severally liable with the company for all charges to the account.”


  SBA Loans  

Many private lenders require personal guarantees before they advance any credit to certain types of businesses. What many people may not realize is that the Small Business Administration (SBA) also requires principals to offer personal guarantees in order to get an SBA loan. Anyone with an interest in a business of 20% or more must provide the SBA with an unconditional personal guarantee. These loans are backed by the SBA but are issued by the administration's lending partners.






The Small Business Administration requires a personal guarantee from anyone with an interest of 20% or more in a company.


   Types of Personal Guarantees  

There are two common types of personal guarantees—limited and unlimited. Limited guarantees allow lenders to collect a certain amount of money or a certain percentage of the outstanding balance from a principal or business owner. These guarantees are common when there are multiple principals who can pay a certain portion of the debt. For instance, if a business defaults on its loan, the lender can go after each principal for 25% of the balance.



Unlimited guarantees, however, require that the principal is liable for the full outstanding balance. Personal guarantees required by the SBA are considered unlimited guarantees. So if a business can't fulfill its obligations on a loan with a personal guarantee, the lender can go after the principal to recoup the full outstanding balance. If there aren't enough liquid assets available—through checking and other, similar accounts—the lender can seize other assets such as real estate or vehicles.
What Is a Personal Identification Number (PIN)?  

A personal identification number (PIN) is a numerical code used in many electronic financial transactions. Personal identification numbers are usually issued in association with payment cards and may be required to complete a transaction. The purpose of a personal identification number (PIN) is to add additional security to the electronic transaction process.





Key Takeaways

A personal identification number (PIN) is a numerical code issued with a payment card that is required to be entered to complete various financial transactions.The core purpose of a personal identification number (PIN) is to provide an additional layer of security to the electronic transaction process.Debit cards are the most common instance in which individuals will need to use a personal identification number (PIN), primarily when they withdraw money from their bank account.As PINs are used to verify an individual's identity, they are also used in many other instances, such as home security and mobile phones.It is recommended to choose a personal identification number (PIN) that is longer than shorter, hard to guess, and not related to personal information, such as a birthday or Social Security Number.As merchant transactions are easy to complete with a card, the use of a personal identification number (PIN) guards against any fraudulent behavior.


   Understanding a Personal Identification Number (PIN)  

Personal identification numbers provide additional security on an account and are most commonly used with debit cards linked to a person’s bank account. When a person is issued a debit card, they are required to choose a unique personal identification number (PIN) that they will need to enter every time they wish to withdraw money from an ATM and oftentimes when they make payments at various merchant stores.



As PINs are like passwords, they are also used in many other instances, such as home security and mobile phones. A PIN is basically any numerical method used to verify an individual's identity.






The IRS often requires an identify protection PIN when filing your electronic or paper tax return. This PIN is a six-digit number and can be obtained via the IRS website.


   Card Security and Personal Identification Numbers (PINs)  

Personal identification numbers (PINs) usually range from four to six digits and are generated by the issuing bank through a coding system that makes each PIN unique, or are chosen by the account holder themself. Typically, a PIN is issued to a cardholder by mail separately from the associated card or punched in at a local branch when opening an account in person.



When choosing a PIN, it is recommended to choose one that will be difficult to guess but also easy for the account holder to remember. Short, basic PINs are advised against, such as using "123" or numbers that would be easy to guess in instances of fraud; common information, such as an account holder's birthday, marriage anniversary, or Social Security Number. It is crucial that account-holders be cautious about sharing or disclosing their personal identification number to prevent unwanted access to their bank accounts.


   Electronic Transaction Processing and Personal Identification Numbers (PINs)  

Electronic transactions with merchants are slightly more complex than standard ATM transactions. Merchant transactions will involve the merchant, the merchant acquiring bank, the processing network, and the issuing bank. Therefore, the use of a PIN number can help make transactions more secure by requiring an additional layer of identification from the buyer.



PINs are commonly required as the final step in a payment, giving a merchant the approval to process a card for payment. A PIN is usually only required by the merchant at the point of sale as opposed to being required for online purchases. Once approval is given to process a card, communication is sent to the merchant acquiring bank, which facilitates the settlement of the payment.



Once payment communication is designated to the specified processing network, the processing network can then contact the cardholder’s issuing bank. The issuing bank does additional security checks on the transaction to ensure that it is not fraudulent. They also confirm that the funds are available in a cardholder’s account to cover the payment.



The issuing bank takes additional security precautions when receiving transaction communication from a merchant in order to ensure the safety of the transaction. Once confirmed by the issuing bank, communication is sent through the processor to the merchant acquiring bank who notifies the merchant and begins settlement on the transaction.






Some PINs may disallow the use of certain features such as duplicated digits, sequential digits, or re-using the same PIN from before.


   Personal Identification Numbers (PINs) vs. Password  

Although both a PIN and a password are critical elements related to security, there are some important differences between a PIN and password. A PIN is typically a sequence of digits, while a password can be longer and contain a combination of letters, numbers, and symbols. A PIN is also usually shorter or usually have a more limited length allowed compared to a password with more characters.



Due to length and characters, a password is simply more complex. It can usually or require use of both upper case letters, lower case letters, numbers, or symbols. It may also require a combination of any of the options above. Therefore, a password is more useful to secure access, a device, an online account, or a network that require stronger security. A PIN is more suitable for a faster and easier access.



There are potential technical differences between a PIN and a password. A PIN more often is stored locally on a device which operates with less security. On the other hand, a password may be stored externally on a secure server. A password may also more commonly be encrypted, hashed, or require multi-factor authentication to retrieve. Therefore, a password is simply a more securely protected authorization tool.


   Tips for Setting a Strong Personal Identification Numbers (PINs)  

Though a PIN should be easy to remember, there are certain pitfalls a user should attempt to avoid. Avoid using obvious combinations such as "0000" as these are the most common PIN numbers and are easy to guess. Consider using a random combination of numbers that you can remember easily but not someone else. It's often advised to not use personal information like your birthdate, phone number, or social security number as these can also be easily guessed or obtained via personal documents.



Sometimes, you may have the option of choosing the own length of your PIN. If this is the case, choose a PIN that is longer than four digits. A longer PIN will make it more difficult for someone to guess or hack, although there are ways to leverage technology to brute force guess a PIN. In addition, avoid repeating digits or consecutive numbers. For example, "1212" or "1234" should be avoided. If it's an option, mix numbers and letters to make it even more secure. However, make sure that you can easily remember the combination.



Last, consider changing your PIN regularly. If someone is able to guess your PIN, you may not know that they have been accessing your account. By changing your PIN regularly, you may be incidentally stopping unknown unknown unauthorized access.




How Do I Find My PIN Number?
If you've forgotten your PIN number, consider contacting your bank. You'll likely have to verify your identity, but a customer service representative should be able to help you reset your PIN.




Do All Debit Cards Have a PIN?
Yes, all debit cards require a PIN number. However, be mindful that not all debit card transactions require the use of a PIN number. The transaction itself, your recent purchasing history, or the vendor purchasing from may influence the security checks implemented by the issuing bank.




Is My Debit Card's CVV Number the Same as a PIN?
No, a debit card's CVV number is different from a PIN. A CVV is used when making payments online or over the phone to verify the physical card's information. A PIN is more useful to authorize in-person transactions to ensure the user using the card is an authorized person that is allowed to spend using the card.




How Do I Activate My Debit Card PIN?
To activate a debit card PIN, you often must enter your card at an ATM or use it in a transaction. You may be prompted to enter the debit card number, then you can follow the instructions to set your PIN. In other cases, you may be given a phone number to call to verify and activate your card. As part of that phone call, you may be asked to establish a PIN.


   The Bottom Line  

A personal identification number is an often-numeric code used for authentication purposes to access a device, a system, or an account. It's typically a four to six digit code and is a simple way to authenticate a user. It is also used to secure certain features and functions of the device or account.
What Is Personal Income?  

Personal income refers to all income collectively received by all individuals or households in a country. Personal income includes compensation from a number of sources, including salaries, wages, and bonuses received from employment or self-employment, dividends and distributions received from investments, rental receipts from real estate investments, and profit sharing from businesses.





Key Takeaways

Personal income is the amount of money collectively received by the inhabitants of a country.Sources of personal income include money earned from employment, dividends and distributions paid by investments, rents derived from property ownership, and profit sharing from businesses.Personal income is generally subject to taxation.


   Understanding Personal Income  

The term “personal income” is sometimes used to refer to the total compensation received by an individual, but this is more aptly referred to as individual income. In most jurisdictions, personal income, also called gross income, is subject to taxation above a certain base amount.



Personal income has a significant effect on consumer consumption. As consumer spending drives much of the economy, national statistical organizations, economists, and analysts track personal income on a quarterly or annual basis.



In the United States, the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) tracks personal income statistics each month and compares them to numbers from the previous month. The agency also breaks out the numbers into categories, such as personal income earned through employment wages, rental income, farming, and sole proprietorships. This allows the agency to make analyses about how earning trends are changing.



Personal income tends to rise during periods of economic expansion and stagnate or decline slightly during recessionary times. Rapid economic growth since the 1980s in economies such as China, India, and Brazil has spurred substantial increases in personal incomes for millions of their citizens.


   Personal Income vs. Disposable Personal Income  

Disposable personal income (DPI) refers to the amount of money that a population has left after taxes have been paid. It differs from personal income in that it takes taxes into account.



Analyzing after-tax income is important, as this is the money that the population is effectively left with to spend, save, or invest.






Only income taxes are removed from the personal income figure when calculating disposable personal income.


   Personal Income vs. Personal Consumption Expenditures  

Personal income is often compared to personal consumption expenditures (PCEs). PCEs measure changes in the price of consumer goods and services. By taking these changes into account, analysts can ascertain how changes in personal income affect spending.



To illustrate, if personal income increases significantly one month, and PCEs also increase, consumers collectively may have more cash in their pockets but also may have to spend more money on basic goods and services.




Is personal income before or after taxes?
Personal income represents all payments made to individuals before tax. It’s not disposable income, which reveals how much people actually have left to spend, save, or invest after income taxes have been deducted.




How do you calculate personal income and disposable income?
To calculate personal income, all income collectively received by individuals or households in a country needs to be tallied up. That is not only gross pay from work but also dividends, rental income, interest, and so forth. Disposable income is then calculated by taking the personal income number and subtracting personal income taxes.




What is the difference between gross national income (GNI) and personal income?
Personal income focuses on how much money a country’s inhabitants are earning. Gross national income (GNI), on the other hand, reveals the total amount of money earned by a nation’s residents and businesses.
What Is Personal Lines Insurance?  

Personal lines insurance refers to any kind of insurance that covers individuals against loss that results from death, injury, or loss of property. These insurance lines generally protect people and their families from losses they couldn’t afford to cover on their own. Personal lines insurance makes it possible to do things such as driving a car and owning a home without risking financial ruin. This is not the same as commercial lines insurance, which provides property and casualty coverage for businesses.





Key Takeaways

Personal lines insurance covers individuals against loss resulting from death, injury, or loss of property.Personal lines insurance makes it possible to do things such as driving a car and owning a home without risking financial ruin.Coverage generally depends on how much an individual is willing to pay in premiums.In some situations, individuals may not be able to purchase insurance because they pose too great a risk to the insurance company.Examples of personal lines insurance include homeowners insurance, earthquake insurance, renters insurance, car insurance, life insurance, health insurance, and disability insurance.


   How Personal Lines Insurance Works  

Personal lines insurance is any type of insurance coverage purchased by an individual to cover themselves and/or their families. These policies protect against different kinds of personal risks that would lead to potentially crushing financial losses caused by fire, theft, natural disasters, death, accidents, lawsuits, and illness.



The amount of insurance coverage you can get generally depends on how much you are willing to pay in premiums. The more you are willing to pay, the more insurance you can obtain. Individuals can usually tailor each policy’s coverage and deductibles to strike the right balance between the amount of coverage and the cost of premiums. Premiums can also vary according to where you live. 



Personal lines insurance won’t cover every risk an individual might face. However, it can dramatically reduce the policyholder's liability for damages and the dollar amount they might have to pay out of pocket to remedy an unfortunate situation.


   Types of Personal Lines Insurance  

Personal lines insurance includes products such as homeowners insurance, flood insurance, earthquake insurance, renters insurance, automobile insurance, life insurance, disability insurance, umbrella insurance, and health insurance. Some types of personal insurance, such as automobile liability insurance, are often required by law. 



For instance, required minimum levels of automobile liability insurance are common and can vary by jurisdiction or state. Other types of personal lines insurance, such as comprehensive and collision automobile insurance and homeowners insurance, may be required by lenders when a property is used as collateral for a loan.


   Special Considerations  

Individuals may be unable to purchase a policy for a particular situation because they pose too great a risk to the insurance company. For example, someone with a history of cancer may not be able to purchase life insurance. Another example would be a homeowner who wants to buy flood insurance, but whose house is below the flood plain. 



In some cases, high-risk individuals can still purchase insurance, but they will have to pay above-average premiums to compensate the insurer for the extra risk. One common example of this is high-risk auto insurance for drivers who've received multiple moving traffic violations over a short time or who've been at fault in multiple accidents over a short period of time.





$1,245

The average annual full-coverage insurance cost for medium sedans in 2020.


   Personal Lines Insurance vs. Commercial Lines Insurance  

Personal lines insurance accounts for about 53% of net premiums written in the property and casualty insurance market, while commercial lines insurance accounts for about 47%. While personal lines insurance covers individuals, commercial lines insurance provides coverage to businesses and other enterprises.



Commercial lines insurance helps protect businesses from any losses they may not be able to cover on their own. This kind of insurance not only covers large commercial enterprises but also protects small businesses against risk. Commercial property insurance, commercial auto insurance, casualty insurance, and medical malpractice insurance are all kinds of commercial lines insurance.



It isn't always easy to determine how much coverage a business may require under a commercial policy. That's because the needs of corporations—even small businesses—are much more complicated and complex than individuals who seek coverage.



For instance, businesses are dependent on their employees, whose actions may put the business at risk for lawsuits or damages should an accident occur. Consider drivers who use company vehicles. The liability for a company may increase because of an employee's driving habits and behaviors while on the road.
What Is Personal Property?  

Personal property is a class of property that can include any asset other than real estate. The distinguishing factor between personal property and real estate, or real property, is that personal property is movable; that is, it isn't fixed permanently to one particular location. It is generally not taxed like fixed property.





Key Takeaways

Personal property refers to the items that people own such as furniture, appliances, or electronics. In short, these items differ from real property because they are movable.Personal property can be intangible, as in the case of stocks and bonds, or tangible, such as clothes or artwork.Like real property, such as a house, loans can be secured by personal property. A common example is a car loan, for which the car itself serves as collateral.Personal property plays a role when people insure a home. Typically under homeowners insurance policies, coverage for personal property falls between 50% to 70% of a dwelling's value.


   Understanding Personal Property  

Personal property is also known as movable property, movables, and chattels. Because it is viewed as an asset, it may be taken into consideration by a lender when someone applies for a mortgage or other loan. 






Personal property can be insured in one of two ways. First, for its current value, which takes depreciation into account, or second, for what it would cost to replace with a similar new item.



Some kinds of property, such as home appliances, clothing, and automobiles, tend to depreciate in value over time. Other kinds, such as artworks and antiques, may appreciate in value. When assessing a would-be borrower's creditworthiness, lenders may look at the total current value of their personal property added to their real property.



Personal property can be characterized as either tangible or intangible. Examples of tangible personal property include vehicles, furniture, boats, and collectibles. Stocks, bonds, and bank accounts fall under intangible personal property.



Just as some loans—mortgages, for example—are secured by real property like a house, some loans are secured by personal property. A common example is car loans, where the vehicle serves as collateral for the loan.


   Personal Property and Insurance  

Personal property also comes into play when people insure their homes. A homeowner's insurance policy typically covers not just the physical dwelling but also the owner's personal property, often referred to as the home's "contents."



Most homeowners policies base the value of the policyholder's personal property on a percentage of the dwelling's value, typically 50% to 70%. For example, if a home would cost $200,000 to rebuild if it burned to the ground, the policy might use 70% of that figure, or $140,000, as the coverage limit for the owner's personal property.



Homeowners policyholders can typically choose between two options for covering their personal property: replacement value or actual cash value. If the policy provides for replacement value, the insurer would be obligated to replace a destroyed item with a similar new item. With actual cash value, the insurer is only expected to pay what the item was worth, after taking depreciation into account.



So, for example, if a refrigerator were destroyed in a house fire, a homeowner with a 10-year-old refrigerator and replacement coverage should receive enough money to buy a new refrigerator, while a homeowner with actual cost coverage would receive whatever the insurance company determined a used 10-year-old refrigerator to be worth.


   Special Considerations  

In the event that their personal property is destroyed, policyholders must file a claim with their insurance company, describing what they lost. For that reason, homeowners are well-advised to make an inventory of their personal property, ideally with photos and receipts, and store it safely off-premises, just in case it's ever needed.



Homeowners policies also limit coverage for certain types of personal property, such as jewelry and computers. For example, a policy may limit its coverage of jewelry to $1,500. Policyholders whose jewelry is worth more than that can pay extra to raise the limits in their policy or buy additional insurance, often called a floater, to cover its full value.
A personal service corporation is a corporation that is created to provide personal services to individuals or groups. Such services span a wide variety of professional business endeavors as specified by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) (see below). For these C Corporations to be considered a personal service corporation by the IRS, the employee-owners must perform at least 20% of the personal services themselves. The employee/owners must also own at least 10% of the outstanding stock of the personal service corporation on the last day of the initial one-year testing period.﻿﻿


   Breaking Down Personal Service Corporation  

A personal service corporation is a taxing entity set up under IRS regulations. The services provided by a personal service corporation may include any activity performed in the following fields: accounting, engineering, architecture, consulting, actuarial science, law, performing arts and health, including veterinary services. Financial services activities are not considered qualified services (which is why many financial advisers choose to organize as S Corporations). An income test requires that employees of personal services corporations must spend at least 95% of their work time on qualified services.


   Personal Service Corporation and Taxes  

Personal service corporations are taxed by multiplying taxable income by 21%.﻿﻿ There are tax benefits that come with organizing as a C Corporation, which is why many high-earning professionals use the structure. For example, a C Corporation allows employee/owners to leave some of their earnings in the corporation, which means it will be taxed at a lower corporate rate than the marginal tax rates. Professionals may also take advantage of some tax-free fringe benefits, limited liability, and may receive favorable treatment of business deductions.



Such corporations have to comply with certain tax regulations, such as employing fiscal year that is based on the calendar year and adherence to specific passive activity regulations. ﻿



Personal service corporations are not to be confused with professional corporations, which are business entities made up of certain types of professionals under state law.


   Personal Service Corporation Test  

According to the IRS, a person may be considered an employee-owner of a personal care corporation if the following conditions are met:﻿﻿



They are an employee of the corporation or performs personal services for, or on behalf of, the corporation (even if they are an independent contractor for other purposes) on any day of the testing period.They own any stock in the corporation at any time during the testing period.



If individual functions as the owner/employee of a personal service corporation and their primary business is related to creative/fine arts or photography, any current expenses they incur pursuant to creative work are deductible for the corporation. However, either the owner/employee or their family members must hold all or nearly all of the corporation's outstanding stock. This rule does not apply to other types of personal service corporations.
What Is Personally Identifiable Information (PII)?  

Personally identifiable information (PII) is information that, when used alone or with other relevant data, can identify an individual.



PII may contain direct identifiers (e.g., passport information) that can identify a person uniquely, or quasi-identifiers (e.g., race) that can be combined with other quasi-identifiers (e.g., date of birth) to successfully recognize an individual.





Key Takeaways

Personally identifiable information (PII) uses data to confirm an individual's identity. Sensitive personally identifiable information can include your full name, Social Security Number, driver’s license, financial information, and medical records.Non-sensitive personally identifiable information is easily accessible from public sources and can include your zip code, race, gender, and date of birth.Passports contain personally identifiable information. Social media sites may be considered non-sensitive personally identifiable information. 


  Understanding Personally Identifiable Information  

Advancing technology platforms have changed the way businesses operate, governments legislate, and individuals relate. With digital tools like cell phones, the Internet, e-commerce, and social media, there has been an explosion in the supply of all kinds of data.



Big data, as it is called, is being collected, analyzed, and processed by businesses and shared with other companies. The wealth of information provided by big data has enabled companies to gain insight into how to better interact with customers.



However, the emergence of big data has also increased the number of data breaches and cyberattacks by entities who realize the value of this information. As a result, concerns have been raised over how companies handle the sensitive information of their consumers. Regulatory bodies are seeking new laws to protect the data of consumers, while users are looking for more anonymous ways to stay digital.


   Sensitive vs. Non-Sensitive Personally Identifiable Information  
  Sensitive PII  

Personally identifiable information (PII) can be sensitive or non-sensitive. Sensitive personal information includes legal statistics such as:



Full name
Social Security Number (SSN)
Driver’s license
Mailing address
Credit card information
Passport information
Financial information
Medical records



The above list is by no means exhaustive. Companies that share data about their clients normally use anonymization techniques to encrypt and obfuscate the PII, so it is received in a non-personally identifiable form. An insurance company that shares its clients’ information with a marketing company will mask the sensitive PII included in the data and leave only information related to the marketing company’s goal.


  Non-Sensitive PII  

Non-sensitive or indirect PII is easily accessible from public sources like phonebooks, the Internet, and corporate directories. Examples of non-sensitive or indirect PII include:



Zip codeRaceGenderDate of birthPlace of birthReligion



The above list contains quasi-identifiers and examples of non-sensitive information that can be released to the public. This type of information cannot be used alone to determine an individual’s identity.



However, non-sensitive information, although not delicate, is linkable. This means that non-sensitive data, when used with other personal linkable information, can reveal the identity of an individual. De-anonymization and re-identification techniques tend to be successful when multiple sets of quasi-identifiers are pieced together and can be used to distinguish one person from another.






Regulating and safeguarding personally identifiable information (PII) will likely be a dominant issue for individuals, corporations, and governments in the years to come.


   Safeguarding Personally Identifiable Information (PII)  

Multiple data protection laws have been adopted by various countries to create guidelines for companies that gather, store, and share the personal information of clients. Some of the basic principles outlined by these laws state that some sensitive information should not be collected unless for extreme situations.



Also, regulatory guidelines stipulate that data should be deleted if no longer needed for its stated purpose, and personal information should not be shared with sources that cannot guarantee its protection.



Cybercriminals breach data systems to access PII, which is then sold to willing buyers in underground digital marketplaces. For example, in 2015, the IRS suffered a data breach leading to the theft of more than a hundred thousand taxpayers’ PII.



Using quasi-information stolen from multiple sources, the perpetrators were able to access an IRS website application by answering personal verification questions that should have been privy to the taxpayers only.






Safeguarding PII may not always be the sole responsibility of a service provider. In some cases, it may be shared with the individual.


   How PII Is Stolen  

Many thieves find PII of unsuspecting victims by digging through their trash for unopened mail. This can provide them with a person's name and address. In some cases, it can also reveal information about their employment, banking relationships, or even their social security numbers.



Nowadays, the Internet has become a major vector for identity theft. Phishing and social engineering attacks use a deceptive-looking website or email to trick someone into revealing key information, such as their name, bank account numbers, passwords, or social security number. It is also possible to steal this information through deceptive phone calls or SMS messages.


   Tips on Protecting PII  

While it is not possible to fully protect yourself, you can make yourself a smaller target by reducing the opportunities to steal your PII. Experian, one of the top three credit agencies, lists several steps that you can take to reduce your surface area.



For example, a locked mailbox or PO box makes it harder for thieves to steal your mail and removing personal identification from junk mail and other documents makes it harder for identity thieves to associate a name with an address. Also, avoid carrying more PII than you need—there's no reason to keep your social security card in your wallet.



Likewise, there are some steps you can take to prevent online identity theft. Data leaks are a major source of identity theft, so it is important to use a different, complex password for each online account. Always encrypt your important data, and use a password for each phone or device. It is also a good idea to reformat your hard drive whenever you sell or donate a computer.


   Personally Identifiable Information Around the World  

The definition of what comprises PII differs depending on where you live in the world. The following are the privacy regimes in specific jurisdictions:


  United States  

In the United States, the government defined "personally identifiable" in 2020 as anything that can "be used to distinguish or trace an individual's identity" such as name, SSN, and biometrics information; either alone or with other identifiers such as date of birth or place of birth.


  Europe  

In the European Union (EU), the definition expands to include quasi-identifiers as outlined in the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) that went into effect in May 2018. The GDPR is a legal framework that sets rules for collecting and processing personal information for those residing in the EU.


  Australia  

Personal information is protected by the Privacy Act 1988. This law regulates the collection, storage, use, and disclosure of personal information, whether by the federal government or private entities. Later amendments regulate the use of healthcare identifiers and establish the obligations of entities that suffer from a data breach.


  Canada  

The Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act regulates the use of personal information for commercial use. This is defined as information that on its own or combined with other data, can identify you as an individual.


   Personally Identifiable Information vs. Personal Data  

Personal data encompasses a broader range of contexts than PII. For instance, your IP address, device ID numbers, browser cookies, online aliases, or genetic data. Certain attributes such as religion, ethnicity, sexual orientation, or medical history may be classified as personal data but not personally identifiable information.


   Example of Personally Identifiable Information  

In early 2018, Facebook Inc. (META), now Meta, was embroiled in a major data breach. The profiles of 30 million Facebook users were collected without their consent by an outside company called Cambridge Analytica. Cambridge Analytica got its data from Facebook through a researcher who worked at the University of Cambridge. The researcher built a Facebook app that was a personality quiz. An app is a software application used on mobile devices and websites.



The app was designed to take the information from those who volunteered to give access to their data for the quiz. Unfortunately, the app collected not only the quiz takers' data but, because of a loophole in Facebook's system, was able also to collect data from the friends and family members of the quiz takers.



As a result, over 50 million Facebook users had their data exposed to Cambridge Analytica without their consent. Although Facebook banned the sale of their data, Cambridge Analytica turned around and sold the data to be used for political consulting. Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook founder and CEO, released a statement within the company's Q1-2019 earnings release:



We are focused on building out our privacy-focused vision for the future of social networking and working collaboratively to address important issues around the Internet.



The data breach not only affected Facebook users but investors as well. Facebook's profits decreased by 50% in Q1-2019 versus the same period a year earlier. The company accrued $3 billion in legal expenses and would have had an earnings per share of $1.04 higher without the expenses, stating:



We estimate that the range of loss in this matter is $3.0 billion to $5.0 billion. The matter remains unresolved, and there can be no assurance as to the timing or the terms of any final outcome.



The following day, on April 25, 2019, Meta announced it was banning personality quizzes from its platform.



Companies will undoubtedly invest in ways to harvest data, such as personally identifiable information (PII), to offer products to consumers and maximize profits. Still, they will be met with more stringent regulations in the years to come.




What Qualifies as PII?
Personally identifiable information is defined by the U.S. government as:“Information which can be used to distinguish or trace an individual’s identity, such as their name, social security number, biometric records, etc. alone, or when combined with other personal or identifying information which is linked or linkable to a specific individual, such as date and place of birth, mother’s maiden name, etc.”




What Is Not PII?
Personal data is not classified as PII and non-personal data such as the company you work for, shared data, or anonymized data.




What Is a PII Violation?
PII violations are illegal, and often involve frauds such as identity theft. Violations may also stem from unauthorized access, use, or disclosure of PII. Failure to report a PII breach can also be a violation.




What Must You Do When Emailing PII?
Because email is not always secure, try to avoid emailing PII. If you must, use encryption or secure verification techniques.




What Laws Protect PII?
Various federal and state consumer protection laws protect PII and sanction its unauthorized use; for instance, the Federal Trade Commission Act and the Privacy Act of 1974.


   The Bottom Line  

Personal Identifying Information (PII) is any type of data that can be used to identify someone, from their name and address to their phone number, passport information, and social security numbers. This information is frequently a target for identity thieves, especially over the Internet. For that reason, it is essential for companies and government agencies to keep their databases secure.
What Is PEST Analysis?  

PEST analysis (political, economic, social, and technological) is a management method whereby an organization can assess major external factors that influence its operation in order to become more competitive in the market. As described by the acronym, those four areas are central to this model.



A popular variation on the PEST analysis format, especially in the U.K., is the PESTLE strategic planning approach, which includes the additional aspects of legal and environmental.





Key Takeaways

PEST analysis stands for political, economic, social, and technological.This type of analysis is used to gauge external factors that could impact the profitability of a company.Generally, it is more effective with larger organizations that are more likely to experience the effects of macro events.PEST analysis is commonly used in conjunction with SWOT analysis, which stands for strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats.


   Understanding PEST Analysis  

It is believed that PEST analysis was first introduced under the name ETPS by Harvard professor Francis J. Aguilar. In the 1967 publication "Scanning the Business Environment," Aguilar presented the economic, technical, political, and social factors as being major influences on the business environment. Subsequently, the letters were rearranged to create a convenient and quirky acronym used today.



The core of PEST analysis is the belief that a comprehensive assessment of the major areas of influence that affect the sector in which an organization is positioned, as well as the organization itself, can facilitate more effective strategic planning.



This planning can be undertaken to maximize the organization’s ability to capitalize on conditions as they exist and to be forewarned of and better prepared for imminent changes, allowing the organization to stay ahead of competitors.


   Components of PEST Analysis  

Political: The political aspect of PEST analysis focuses on the areas in which government policy and/or changes in legislation affect the economy, the specific industry, and the organization in question. Areas of policy that may particularly affect an organization include tax and employment laws. The general political climate of a nation or region, as well as international relations, can also greatly influence the organization.



Economic: The economic portion of the analysis targets the key factors of interest and exchange rates, economic growth, supply and demand, inflation, and recession.



Social: The social factors that may be included in a PEST analysis are demographics and age distribution, cultural attitudes, and workplace and lifestyle trends.



Technological: The technological component considers the specific role and development of technologies within the sector and organization, as well as the wider uses, trends, and changes in technology. Government spending on technological research may also be a point of interest in this area.


   Applications of PEST Analysis  

PEST analysis can assist an organization in recognizing and thereby capitalizing on opportunities offered by existing conditions in the business environment. It can also be used for identifying current or possible future challenges, allowing for effective planning of how to best manage these challenges.



PEST analysis can also be applied in assessing the in-house structure of an organization in order to identify strengths and weaknesses in its internal politics, economic outlook, social climate, and technology base. The results of this analysis can facilitate changes or improvements in areas identified as subpar.



PEST analysis can be used in conjunction with other forms of strategic business analysis, such as the SWOT (strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats) model, for an even more comprehensive result. Conducting a comparison between these completed analyses can provide a very solid basis for informed decision-making.




What Is PEST vs. PESTLE Analysis?
PEST analysis stands for "political, economic, social, and technological" whereas PESTLE stands for the same but adds "legal" and "environmental" factors to the analysis. These areas are considered when assessing the impact of external factors on a company's profitability.




How Do You Do a PEST Analysis?
To do a PEST analysis, you must consider the different factors under each category (political, economic, social, and technological), and how these factors affect your business. For the political component, you would assess laws, regulations, government policies, and tariffs, for example. For the economic component, some of the topics you would assess would include access to financing, cost of living, interest rates, inflation, and labor costs. For the social component, you would consider consumer trends and behaviors, education, division of wealth, population growth rates, and health. For the technological component, you would assess areas such as artificial intelligence growth, innovation, research and development, social networking, and cybersecurity.




How Often Should a PEST Analysis Be Done?
A PEST analysis can be done as often as a business would like. It is good to perform a PEST analysis when there have been significant changes that may impact a business, such as a change in interest rates, new government policies, or the introduction of new technology. It should be done often so as not to become outdated.


   The Bottom Line  

By analyzing the political, economic, societal, and technological factors that impact its business, a company can plan, reorganize, and adjust to these external factors in order to become a more successful operation. A business's success is not only predicated on how well it internally manages its operations but also on how it functions in the larger world. PEST analysis helps it to succeed in that aspect.
What Is the Peter Principle?  

The Peter Principle is an observation that the tendency in most organizational hierarchies, such as that of a corporation, is for every employee to rise in the hierarchy through promotion until they reach a level of respective incompetence.



In other words, a front-office secretary who is quite good at their job may thus be promoted to executive assistant to the CEO which they are not trained or prepared for—meaning that the secretary would be more productive if they had not been promoted.



The Peter Principle is thus based on the paradoxical idea that competent employees will continue to be promoted, but at some point will be promoted into positions for which they are incompetent, and they will then remain in those positions because of the fact that they do not demonstrate any further competence that would get them recognized for additional promotion.



According to the Peter Principle, every position in a given hierarchy will eventually be filled by employees who are incompetent to fulfill the job duties of their respective positions.





Key Takeaways

The Peter Principle observes that employees rise up through a firm's hierarchy through promotion until they reach a level of respective incompetence.As a result, according to the Peter Principle, every position in a given hierarchy will eventually be filled by employees who are incompetent to fulfill the job duties of their respective positions.A possible solution to the problem posed by the Peter Principle is for companies to provide adequate skill training for employees receiving a promotion, and to ensure the training is appropriate for the position to which they have been promoted.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding the Peter Principle  

The Peter Principle was laid out by Canadian educational scholar and sociologist, Dr. Laurence J. Peter, in his 1968 book titled The Peter Principle. Dr. Peter stated in his book that an employee's inability to fulfill the requirements of a given position that they are promoted to may not be the result of general incompetence on the part of the employee as much as it is due to the fact that the position simply requires different skills than those the employee actually possesses.



For example, an employee who is very good at following rules or company policies may be promoted into the position of creating rules or policies, despite the fact that being a good rule follower does not mean that an individual is well-suited to be a good rule creator.






Most people will not turn down a promotion, especially if it comes with greater pay and prestige—even if they know they are unqualified for the position.



Dr. Peter summed up the Peter Principle with a twist on the old adage that "the cream rises to the top" by stating that "the cream rises until it sours." In other words, excellent employee performance is inevitably promoted to the point where the employee's performance is no longer excellent, or even satisfactory.



According to the Peter Principle, competence is rewarded with promotion because competence, in the form of employee output, is noticeable, and thus usually recognized. However, once an employee reaches a position in which they are incompetent, they are no longer evaluated based on their output but instead are evaluated on input factors, such as arriving at work on time and having a good attitude.



Dr. Peter further argued that employees tend to remain in positions for which they are incompetent because mere incompetence is rarely sufficient to cause the employee to be fired from the position. Ordinarily, only extreme incompetence causes dismissal.


   How to Overcome the Peter Principle  

A possible solution to the problem posed by the Peter Principle is for companies to provide adequate skills training for employees both before and after receiving a promotion, and to ensure the training is appropriate for the position to which they have been promoted.



It is also important to carefully assess the job skills of all candidates, especially for internal promotions. Many valuable skill sets do not transfer well to higher positions—for example, a person may be an exceptionally skilled engineer but lack the social skills to be an effective manager. Having a clear picture of the employee's skills will allow the company to find placements that suit their interests.



However, Dr. Peter pessimistically predicted that even good employee training is ultimately unable to overcome the general tendency of organizations to promote employees to positions of incompetence, which he refers to as positions of "final placement." Promoting people at random has been another proposal, but one that does not always sit well with employees.


   Evidence for the Peter Principle  

The Peter Principle sounds intuitive once the idea is understood, and models can be built that predict the phenomenon. Still, it is difficult to get real-world evidence for its widespread occurrence.



In 2018, economists Alan Benson, Danielle Li, and Kelly Shue analyzed sales workers' performance and promotion practices at 214 American businesses to test the Peter principle. They found that companies did indeed tend to promote employees to management positions based on their performance in their previous position, rather than based on managerial potential.



Consistent with the Peter principle, the researchers found that high-performing sales employees were more likely to be promoted and that they were also more likely to perform poorly as managers, leading to considerable costs to the businesses.


   How the Peter Principle Affects a Business  

The Peter Principle can have several negative effects on a company's productivity and morale.



Perhaps the greatest consequence is less effective leadership: Since the newly-promoted managers are not well-suited to their roles, they may be less able to provide effective management and direction to their employees. This can also lead to high rates of error or defects if their new responsibilities are associated with quality control.



These problems can trickle down to other employees, who will make more mistakes as a result of poor management. Lower-level workers may continue to be promoted, resulting in several layers of managers who lack the skills or training for their jobs. This can also damage employee morale, since remaining employees may resent their poor management.


   Peter Principle vs. the Dilbert Principle  

The Peter Principle is the inverse of the Dilbert Principle, an idea coined by the cartoonist Scott Adams for the comic strip Dilbert. This rule states that companies tend to promote their least-competent employees to management roles where they are least likely to interfere with production.



Both rules seek to explain the presence of incompetent people in management positions but use different explanations. The Peter Principle states that people are promoted until they reach a position where they are no longer competent; the Dilbert Principle states that they are promoted because of their incompetence.




What Is the Corollary to the Peter Principle?
Peter's Corollary is an extension of the Peter Principle. It states that in time, every position within an organization will be filled with someone who is not competent to fulfill the duties of their role. This may result in compounded mismanagement and poor leadership.




What Is the Peter Principle for Women?
Sometimes dubbed "the Paula Principle," this rule states that women tend to work in positions that are below the level of their competence. Tom Schuller, who coined the term, suggested five potential reasons for this competency gap:Sexist discrimination still exists.Women lack the "old boy's network" of professional contacts that male colleagues use to gain promotions.Women are more likely to admit that they lack some of the skills for a job.Women bear most of the burdens of child care.Women may make a "positive choice" not to rise as high as they might.




How Do Companies Solve the Peter Principle?
Companies can solve the Peter Principle by carefully assessing the skills and interests of their employees and promoting them only to roles that are well-suited to their abilities and personalities. They should also provide additional mentoring and skills training to help newly promoted employees grow into their new roles.


   The Bottom Line  

The Peter Principle is a theory of management that seeks to explain why many companies have seemingly ineffective management staff. It states that rather than promoting people to the roles they are best suited for, companies will tend to promote effective employees to roles where they are not qualified. This can sometimes result in poor management and ineffective leadership.
What Are Petrodollars?  

Petrodollars are crude oil export revenues denominated in U.S. dollars. The term gained currency in the mid-1970s when soaring oil prices generated large trade and current account surpluses for oil exporting countries.



Then as now, oil sales and the resulting current account surpluses were denominated in dollars because the U.S. dollar was—and remains—by far the most widely used currency. The U.S. dollar's global popularity does not depend on the good will of oil exporters. It is based on U.S. status as the world's largest economy and goods importer, with deep, liquid capital markets backed by the rule of law as well as military power.





Key Takeaways

Petrodollars are U.S. dollars paid to an oil-exporting country.Petrodollars are the primary source of revenue for many OPEC members and other oil exporters.Oil exporters settle sales in U.S. dollars because the dollar is the most widely used currency, making it easier for them to invest export proceeds.Some crude exporters implicated in human rights violations have suggested they may accept payment in other currencies.


   Understanding Petrodollars  

Petrodollars are oil export revenues denominated in U.S. dollars. Petrodollars are not a distinct currency; they are simply U.S. dollars accepted as payment by an oil exporter.



Global crude oil exports averaged approximately 88.4 million barrels per day in 2020. That pace would generate annual global petrodollar supply of more than $3.2 trillion a year, assuming an average price of $100 per barrel.



Petrodollars are the primary source of revenue and wealth for many members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) as well as non-OPEC oil and gas exporters including Russia, Qatar, and Norway.



Just as the petrodollar is not a currency, neither is it a global trading system. The wide use of the U.S. dollar as payment for crude oil reflects the traditional preferences of non-U.S. oil suppliers.


   Petrodollar Recycling  

Oil exporters prefer the U.S. dollar because it is the pre-eminent global currency for global investments. That makes it the most convenient store of value for accumulated oil revenue, which needs to earn a rate of return to be useful.



An early example of petrodollar recycling is the 1974 deal between the U.S. and Saudi Arabia to funnel Saudi petrodollars into U.S. Treasuries.



Subsequent deals deployed Saudi oil export proceeds to pay for U.S. aid and development projects in Saudi Arabia and to finance U.S. weapons sales to the kingdom.



Many oil exporters now invest their petrodollars in stocks, bonds and other financial instruments through sovereign wealth funds. Norway's sovereign wealth fund had assets of about $1.4 trillion at the end of 2021. With a 72% allocation to stocks, the fund holds nearly 1.5% of the world's publicly listed shares.


   The Problem With the Petroyuan  

To evaluate the advantages for an oil exporter of getting paid in U.S. dollars, consider periodic claims over the past decade that the petrodollar would soon face a challenge from the petroyuan: oil exports denominated and paid for with Chinese currency.



All buyers of exported oil hold or can easily access U.S. dollars, while only China and mostly Chinese companies hold the Chinese national currency, called the yuan or renminbi. Unlike the U.S. dollar, the renminbi is not a freely convertible currency; its exchange rate against other currencies including the U.S. dollar continues to be managed by China's central bank.



U.S. dollars from crude exports can be easily invested worldwide, including in the $13.4 trillion eurodollar market for short-term dollar denominated deposits in European banks. Crude export proceeds in Chinese currency cannot be invested outside China as widely as USD, and can only be invested inside China at the discretion of the Chinese government. Though Chinese capital markets have grown fast, they remain much smaller and less liquid than U.S. capital markets.



To sum up, claims that the U.S. dollar's primacy rest on its status as the settlement currency for oil exports have it backwards: the dollar's status as the global reserve currency is what keeps it indispensable to oil exporters. The dollar was the established global store of value decades before non-U.S. crude oil exporters rose to prominence.


   The Real Problem With Petrodollars  

Petrodollars recycled into investments overseas or development programs at home can produce positive financial and social returns. Results are decidedly less positive when petrodollars are spent on fortifying domestic oppression, fueling an arms race or waging war abroad.



In recent years, actions including the murder of U.S. resident Jamal Khashoggi by Saudi state agents in Turkey and Russia's invasion of Ukraine have fueled concerns that petrodollars are financing war and human rights violations, while shielding perpetrators from accountability.




Is the Petrodollar a Currency?
No, petrodollars are simply U.S. dollars received in exchange for oil exports. There is no "petrodollar system." The reinvestment of oil export proceeds has sometimes been called petrodollar recycling.




Does the U.S. Dollar's Global Role Depend on Its Use to Settle Oil Sales?
No, the U.S. dollar is used to settle oil sales because of its wide global acceptance. That acceptance makes it easier for oil exporters to invest the export proceeds.




Is the Petroyuan in Sight?
Oil exporters are free to accept payment in a currency of their choosing. Accepting Chinese currency would be most useful for investment in, and purchases from, China. Chinese capital markets are much smaller and less liquid than those in the U.S., and Chinese currency is not widely accepted outside China.




Are Petrodollars Fueling War and Oppression?
Saudi human rights violations and Russia's invasion of Ukraine have led to suggestions those countries' rulers have been emboldened by their oil wealth. Like any other resource, petrodollars can be deployed for good or ill.


   The Bottom Line  

Petrodollars are U.S. dollars received in return for oil exports. The growth in global oil flows over time has increased the economic interdependence of crude exporters and importers and the volume of international capital flows. But the oil trade and related investments depend crucially on the U.S. dollar as the most widely accepted global currency. The U.S. dollar is unlikely to be supplanted as the global payments currency of choice in the near term.
What Is Petroleum?  

Petroleum, also called crude oil, is a naturally occurring liquid found beneath the earth’s surface that can be refined into fuel. A fossil fuel, petroleum is created by the decomposition of organic matter over time and used as fuel to power vehicles, heating units, and machines, and can be converted into plastics.



Because the majority of the world relies on petroleum for many goods and services, the petroleum industry is a major influence on world politics and the global economy.





Key Takeaways

Petroleum is a naturally occurring liquid found beneath the earth’s surface that can be refined into fuel.Petroleum is used as fuel to power vehicles, heating units, and machines, and can be converted into plastics.The extraction and processing of petroleum and its availability are drivers of the world's economy and global politics.Petroleum is non-renewable energy, and other energy sources, such as solar and wind power, are becoming prominent.


   Understanding Petroleum  

The extraction and processing of petroleum and its availability is a driver of the world's economy and geopolitics. Many of the largest companies in the world are involved in the extraction and processing of petroleum or create petroleum-based products, including plastics, fertilizers, automobiles, and airplanes.



Petroleum is recovered by oil drilling and then refined and separated into different types of fuels. Petroleum contains hydrocarbons of different molecular weights and the denser the petroleum the more difficult it is to process and the less valuable it is.






Investing in petroleum means investing in oil, through the purchase of oil futures or options, or indirect investing, in exchanged traded funds (ETFs) that invest in companies in the energy sector.



Petroleum companies are divided into upstream, midstream, and downstream, depending on the oil and gas company's position in the supply chain. Upstream oil and gas companies identify, extract, or produce raw materials.



Downstream oil companies engage in the post-production of crude oil and natural gas. Midstream oil and gas companies connect downstream and upstream companies by storing and transporting oil and other refined products.


   Pros and Cons of Petroleum  

Petroleum provides transportation, heat, light, and plastics to global consumers. It is easy to extract but is a non-renewable, limited supply source of energy. Petroleum has a high power ratio and is easy to transport.



However, the extraction process and the byproducts of the use of petroleum are toxic to the environment. Underwater drilling may cause leaks and fracking can affect the water table. Carbon released into the atmosphere by using petroleum increases temperatures and is associated with global warming.





Pros

Stable energy source
Easily extracted
Variety of uses
High power ratio
Easily transportable



Cons

Carbon emissions are toxic to the environment.
Transportation can damage the environment.
Extraction process is harmful to the environment.





   The Petroleum Industry  
  Classification  

Oil is classified into three categories including the geographic location where it was drilled, its sulfur content, and its API gravity, its density measure.


  Reservoirs  

Geologists, chemists, and engineers research geographical structures that hold petroleum using “seismic reflection." A reservoir’s oil-in-place that can be extracted and refined is that reservoir’s oil reserves.






As of 2022, the top ranking countries for total oil reserves include Venezuela with 303.8 billion barrels, Saudi Arabia with 297.5, and Canada holding 168.1.


  Extracting  

Drilling for oil includes developmental drilling, where oil reserves have already been found. Exploratory drilling is conducted to search for new reserves and directional drilling is drilling vertically to a known source of oil. 


   Investing In Petroleum  

The energy sector attracts investors who speculate on the demand for oil and fossil fuels and many oil and energy fund offerings consist of companies related to energy.



Mutual funds like Vanguard Energy Fund Investor Shares (VGENX) with holdings in ConocoPhillips, Shell, and Marathon Petroleum Corporation, and the Fidelity Select Natural Gas Fund (FSNGX), holding Enbridge and Hess, are two funds that invest in the energy sector and pay dividends.



Oil and gas exchange-traded funds (ETFs) offer investors more direct and easier access to the often-volatile energy market than many other alternatives. Three of the top-rated oil and gas ETFs for 2022 include the Invesco Dynamic Energy Exploration & Production ETF (PXE), First Trust Natural Gas ETF (FCG), and iShares U.S. Oil & Gas Exploration & Production ETF (IEO).




How Is Petroleum Formed?
Petroleum is a fossil fuel that was formed over millions of years through the transformation of dead organisms, such as algae, plants, and bacteria, that experienced high heat and pressure when trapped inside rock formations.




Is Petroleum Renewable?
Petroleum is not a renewable energy source. It is a fossil fuel with a finite amount of petroleum available.




What Are Alternatives to Petroleum?
Alternatives include wind, solar, and biofuels. Wind power uses wind turbines to harness the power of the wind to create energy. Solar power uses the sun as an energy source, and biofuels use vegetable oils and animal fat as a power source.




What Are Classifications of Petroleum?
Unrefined petroleum classes include asphalt, bitumen, crude oil, and natural gas.


   The Bottom Line  

Petroleum is a fossil fuel that is used widely in the daily lives of global consumers. In its refined state, petroleum is used to create gasoline, kerosene, plastics, and other byproducts. Petroleum is a finite material and non-renewable energy source. Because of its potential to be harmful to the environment, alternative energy sources are being explored and implemented, such as solar and wind energy.
What Is Petty Cash?  

A petty cash fund is a small amount of company cash, often kept on hand (e.g., in a locked drawer or box), to pay for minor or incidental expenses, such as office supplies or employee reimbursements.



A petty cash fund will undergo periodic reconciliations, with transactions also recorded on the financial statements. In larger corporations, each department might have its own petty cash fund.





Key Takeaways

Petty cash is a nominal amount of money readily accessible for paying expenses too small to merit writing a check or using a credit card.In larger corporations, each department might have its own petty cash fund.A petty cash fund can be used for office supplies, cards for customers, flowers, paying for a catered lunch for employees, or reimbursing employees for expenses.Petty cash's main advantages are that it's quick, convenient, and easy to understand and use.Disadvantages of petty cash funds include their vulnerability to theft and misuse, and the need to monitor and balance them periodically.


   Understanding Petty Cash  

Petty cash provides convenience for small transactions for which issuing a check or a corporate credit card is unreasonable or unacceptable. The small amount of cash that a company considers petty will vary, with many companies keeping between $100 and $500 as a petty cash fund. Examples of transactions that a petty cash fund is used for include:



Office suppliesCards for customersFlowersPaying for a catered lunch for a small group of employeesReimbursing an employee for small work-related expenses



Petty cash fund custodians are appointed to oversee the fund. The custodial duties generally include enforcing petty cash rules and regulations, requesting replenishments, and dispensing funds.


   Requirements for Petty Cash   

The use of a petty cash fund can circumvent certain internal controls. However, the availability of petty cash doesn't mean that it can be accessed for any purpose by any person. Many companies employ strict internal controls to manage the fund. Often, a few individuals are authorized to approve disbursements and can only do so for expenses related to legitimate company activities or operations.



A petty cashier might be assigned to issue the check to fund the petty cash drawer and make the appropriate accounting entries. The petty cash custodian is charged with distributing the cash and collecting receipts for all purchases or any uses of the funds. As the petty cash total declines, the receipts should increase and add up to the total amount withdrawn.



By having a petty cash cashier and a petty cash custodian, the dual-process helps to keep the funds secure and ensure that only those authorized have access to it.


   Recording Petty Cash  

When a petty cash fund is in use, petty cash transactions are still recorded on financial statements. No accounting journal entries are made when purchases are made using petty cash, it’s only when the custodian needs more cash—and in exchange for the receipts, receives new funds—that the journal entries are recorded. The journal entry for giving the custodian more cash is a debit to the petty cash fund and a credit to cash.



If there's a shortage or overage, a journal line entry is recorded to an over/short account. If the petty cash fund is over, a credit is entered to represent a gain. If the petty cash fund is short, a debit is entered to represent a loss. The over or short account is used to force-balance the fund upon reconciliation.






The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) recommends filing out petty cash slips and attaching them to receipts to record and document petty cash expenses.


   Reconciling Petty Cash  

The petty cash fund is reconciled periodically to verify that the balance of the fund is correct. Typically, as the petty cash balance falls to a preset level, the custodian applies for additional cash from the cashier. At this time, the total of all of the receipts is calculated to ensure that it matches the disbursed funds from the petty cash drawer. If new funds are needed, the cashier writes a new check to fund the petty cash drawer and takes, in exchange, the receipts from the purchases that depleted the cash.



The reconciliation process ensures that the fund's remaining balance equals the difference between the original balance minus charges detailed on receipts and invoices. If the remaining balance is less than what it should be, there is a shortage. If the remaining balance is more than what it should be, there is an overage. Although there can be minor variances, when unbalanced, the source of the discrepancy should be identified and corrected.


   Petty Cash vs. Cash on Hand  

"Petty cash" and "cash on hand" sound a lot alike, and they do overlap. Of the two, "cash on hand" is the more generic term.



Petty cash refers specifically to money—literally, coins and bills—that a company keeps on hand for small outlays, usually because using cash is easier than using a check or credit card.



Cash on hand is any accessible cash the business or liquid funds have. It can be in the form of actual money, like amounts you haven't yet deposited in the bank or smaller bills and coins that you keep in the cash register to make change for customers. In this meaning, the difference from petty cash refers to where you're keeping the money, and how you're using it—with petty cash being more for internal business needs/expenses by employees, and cash in hand referring to funds received from or being reimbursed to customers.



But cash on hand has a larger meaning, as an accounting term. In the financial world, it also refers to a company's highly liquid assets—funds in checking or other bank accounts, money market funds, short-term debt instruments, or other cash equivalents. Though not literally cash, it's money that can be easily and quickly accessed, which is why it's "on hand."



In short: All petty cash is a form of cash on hand, but not cash on hand is petty cash.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Petty Cash  

Petty cash has its pluses. Cash, in many cases, remains the quickest, simplest, easiest way to pay for things. It works well to cover small impromptu expenses—like a tip for the kid delivering pizzas to the lunch meeting, or cab fare home for employees working late. It saves the hassle of reimbursing people or expecting them to pay out-of-pocket for work-related items.



Petty cash can also work for frequent but mundane expenses, like milk for the office fridge, stamps, or cleaning supplies.



While it shouldn't be a habitual practice, petty cash in a pinch can be used to make change for customers, if the till's running short.



On the downside, the convenience of petty cash can also make it a problem, and a risk. Cash is hard to secure and impossible to track; it's very easy for bills to disappear without a trace—even if you've established a careful system of receipts or vouchers.



This brings us to another drawback of petty cash funds: Maintaining them, keeping records, and reconciling them regularly, all involve extra work for someone. This may be a minor nuisance in large firms with an office manager or accounting department; for small businesses, it might create a burden.



Commercial transactions are increasingly cashless—even at small retailers and restaurants, where purchases traditionally have relied heavily on coins. Petty cash has become an outmoded concept, some critics say. In between credit cards, debit cards, payment services like Venmo or Paypal, electronic wallets, and other contactless ways to buy things, plenty of alternatives exist simple as cash—with the added advantages of being traceable, secure, and less subject to theft.



The security aspect is often important to small companies, who have long feared that keeping cash around is an invitation to crime.





Pros

Convenient, easy to understand
Immediately accessible; no advance planning/authorization required
Good for emergencies/impromptu needs



Cons

Security risk: Hard to track and subject to fraud, theft, misuse
Requires manual monitoring, record-keeping
Old-fashioned/outdated





   Petty Cash FAQs  
  What Is Petty Cash and What Is It Used For?  

Petty cash is the money that a business or company keeps on hand to make small payments, purchases, and reimbursements. Either routine or unexpected, these are transactions for which writing a check or using a credit card is impractical or inconvenient.


  Why Is It Called Petty Cash?  

The English word "petty" derives from the French petit, which means "small" or "little." Likewise, "petty" means minor or insignificant. So petty cash refers to a small sum of money set aside for trifling or little purchases, as opposed to major expenses or bills.



One of the earliest uses of the phrase comes from an educational work on housekeeping by Benjamin Billingsley, Advice to the women and maidens of London, that dates to 1678.


  What Is an Example of Petty Cash?  

Petty cash is usually kept in a drawer, lockbox, or large envelope. Typical petty cash purchases include:



Coffee, candy, or snacksFlowers, birthday cards, or other small giftsCab fare or car fareSmall office supplies—pens, erasers, staplers, etc.Catered meals


  Is Petty Cash a Cash Equivalent?  

No. Petty cash is actual cash money: bills and coins. Cash equivalents are highly liquid securities and other assets that can be easily converted into cash: money market funds, commercial paper, or short-term debt, like Treasury bills.



However, on corporate financial statements, petty cash is listed in the "Cash and cash equivalents" section of the balance sheet. So the two can be lumped together in that sense.


  How Do You Balance Petty Cash in Accounting?  

Each time you tap into a petty cash fund—that is, take money out—a slip or voucher should be filled out. This acts as a receipt, logging the amount of the withdrawal, the date, the purpose, and other details. Increasingly, these slips are electronic ones, entered in a digital spreadsheet or ledger. But it can be helpful to keep paper slips too, along with receipts from the purchases or payments (if possible).



After a designated interval—usually, the same time each month or week—it's time to reconcile or balance the petty fund account. First, note the current amount in the fund. Then, subtract this amount from the starting balance. This sum is the total withdrawn from the account during that time period.



Next, total the amount of all the outstanding slips (plus attached receipts). This figure should be the same as the withdrawn sum you calculated from the account starting and ending balances. And the amount of cash you have in your storage box or drawer should be the same as the current balance of the account.



If they don’t match, you’ll have to investigate why: was there a mathematical error? is a receipt missing or incorrect?  



Balancing the petty cash account usually occurs when the fund needs to be replenished. The petty cash custodian brings all the slips or vouchers to the business' bookkeeper, cashier, or accountant. The petty cash receipts are logged into the company's General Ledger as credits to the petty cash account, and probably debits to several different expense accounts. When the petty fund is replenished, usually by drawing on a company-issued check, it's recorded as a debit to the petty cash account and a credit to the cash account.


   The Bottom Line  

Petty cash is a small amount of cash that is kept on a business or company's premises to pay for minor expenses and needs—usually, no more than a few hundred dollars. While it's easy to understand and simple to use, petty cash is subject to abuse, easy to lose track of, and vulnerable to theft. Some feel that in contemporary society, the petty cash fund is outmoded: plenty of alternatives exist for small purchases that are safer and just as convenient.
What Is a Phantom Stock Plan?  

A phantom stock plan is an employee benefit plan that gives selected employees (senior management) many of the benefits of stock ownership without actually giving them any company stock. This type of plan is sometimes referred to as shadow stock.



Rather than getting physical stock, the employee receives mock stock. Even though it's not real, the phantom stock follows the price movement of the company's actual stock, paying out any resulting profits.





Key Takeaways

A phantom stock plan, or 'shadow stock' is a form of compensation offered to upper management that confers the benefits of owning company stock without the actual ownership or transfer of any shares.By simulating stock ownership, without actually providing it, management ensures that equity does not become diluted for other shareholders.Large cash payments to employees, however, must be taxed as ordinary income rather than capital gains to the recipient and may disrupt the firm's cash flow in some cases. 


   How Phantom Stock Plans Work  

There are two main types of phantom stock plans. "Appreciation only" plans do not include the value of the actual underlying shares themselves, and may only pay out the value of any increase in the company stock price over a certain period of time that begins on the date the plan is granted. "Full value" plans pay both the value of the underlying stock as well as any appreciation.



Both types of plans resemble traditional nonqualified plans in many respects, as they can be discriminatory in nature and are also typically subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture that ends when the benefit is actually paid to the employee, at which time the employee recognizes income for the amount paid and the employer can take a deduction.



Phantom stock may be hypothetical, however, it still can pay out dividends and it experiences price changes just like its real counterpart. After a period of time, the cash value of the phantom stock is distributed to the participating employees.



Phantom stock, also known as synthetic equity, has no inherent requirements or restrictions regarding its use, allowing the organization to use it however it chooses. Phantom stock can also be changed at the leadership's discretion.



Phantom stock qualifies as a deferred compensation plan. A phantom stock program must meet the requirements set forth by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) code 409(a). The plan must be properly vetted by an attorney, with all of the pertinent details specified in writing.






Phantom stock plans have a lot in common with traditional nonqualified stock plans.


   Using Phantom Stock as an Organizational Benefit  

Some organizations may use phantom stock as an incentive to upper management. Phantom stock ties a financial gain directly to a company performance metric. It can also be used selectively as a reward or a bonus to employees who meet certain criteria. Phantom stock can be provided to every employee, either across the board or distributed variably depending on performance, seniority, or other factors.



Phantom stock also provides organizations with certain restrictions in place to provide incentives tied to stock value. This can apply to a limited liability corporation (LLC), a sole proprietor or S-companies restricted by the 100-owner rule.






The two types of phantom stock plans are "appreciation only," which doesn't include the value of the underlying shares, just the increase in stock over the amount of time the shares are held; and "full value," which pays the underlying value and the amount the stock increased while it was held.


   Stock Appreciation Rights  

Stock appreciation rights (SARs) are similar to a phantom stock-based program. SARs are a form of bonus compensation given to employees that is equal to the appreciation of company stock over an established time period. Similar to employee stock options (ESO), SARs are beneficial to the employee when company stock prices rise; the difference with SARs is that employees do not have to pay the exercise price, but receive the sum of the increase in stock or cash.



Most commonly made available to upper management, SARs can function as part of a retirement plan. It provides increased incentives as the value of the company increases. This can also help ensure employee retention, especially in times of internal volatility, such as an ownership change or a personal emergency.



It provides a level of reassurance to employees since phantom stock programs are generally backed in cash. This can, in turn, result in higher selling prices for a business if a prospective buyer perceives the upper management team as being stable.
What Is Philanthropy?  

Philanthropy involves charitable giving to worthy causes on a large scale, but it is much more than just a charitable donation. Philanthropy is an effort an individual or organization undertakes based on an altruistic desire to improve human welfare, and wealthy individuals sometimes establish private foundations to facilitate their philanthropic efforts.



Nonprofits are organizations set up to support a variety of social causes, such as educational, health, scientific, public safety, and human rights. In the United States, organizations that qualify as nonprofits are exempt from federal tax liability under the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) 501(c).





Key Takeaways

Philanthropy refers to charitable acts or other good works that help others or society as a whole.Philanthropy can include donating money to a worthy cause or volunteering time, effort, or other forms of altruism.Increased transparency is a serious matter for many nonprofits, and how funds are obtained and used should be carefully documented. Technology, including social media, has also shaped how many individuals give to others.Andrew Carnegie is one of America's most famous philanthropists, noted for the large scale of his charitable contributions, which included building more than 2,500 libraries worldwide.In modern times, philanthropy is often undertaken by those seeking tax breaks, in addition to feeling good and helping others.


   Understanding Philanthropy  

Philanthropy refers to charitable acts or other good works like volunteering your time or efforts that help others or contribute to the well-being of society overall. For some people, philanthropy means donations of money, often large sums, to support or create university buildings, research centers, or fund four-year college scholarships. For others, acts of philanthropy mean an annual donation to a local theater, food pantry, or public school.



There are many ways to make charitable contributions on a local to a global scale, including corporate philanthropy. There are also individual philanthropists. Philanthropy may be done for tax breaks or altruism, or a combination of the two things. Anyone can be a philanthropist if they give of their talent, time, money, or skills.






The word philanthropy traces its origins to the Latin word philanthropia and the Greek word philanthrōpia, which mean love or kindness to mankind.


   History of Philanthropy  

Philanthropy dates back to Greek society. For instance, Plato instructed his nephew in his will to use the proceeds of the family farm to fund the academy that he founded in 347 B.C. The money helped students and faculty keep the academy running.



Around 150 years later, Pliny the Younger contributed one-third of the funds for a Roman school for young boys. He instructed the fathers of the students to come up with the rest. The intention was to keep young Romans educated in the city rather than abroad.



In 1630, John Winthrop of the Massachusetts Bay Colony preached to Puritan settlers that the rich should care for the poor, who could not help themselves. And in 1638, John Harvard laid the foundations for Harvard University after bequeathing half of his estate to found the school.



More modern and notable philanthropists include Mother Teresa and Norman D. Rockefeller. In the 21st century, philanthropy continues to be practiced in many forms by individuals like Warren Buffett, Melinda Gates, and Dolly Parton, as well as corporations.






Technology, including social media, has also shaped how many individuals give to others.


   Benefits of Philanthropy  

There are many benefits to being a philanthropist. Experts conclude that charitable giving can improve one's emotional and even physical well-being, and philanthropists have the satisfaction of knowing they have contributed to the greater good. In fact, some studies show that philanthropists have less depression, higher self-esteem, lower blood pressure, and may even live longer than those who don't give.



The benefits of philanthropy are not limited to individuals. Corporations that support charitable giving receive a wealth of offerings from building a better public image, creating more vital brand awareness, and attracting new partners and talent who may be attracted to a company that contributes to charities.



In addition, employees who work for companies that give back to society are happier and contribute more to their jobs. And, because corporations are created to make money, a strong philanthropic streak often boosts sales and new customers.






The Charitable Contributions Deduction allows American taxpayers who make substantial charitable gifts to take generous tax deductions for the year in which their donations were made. Instructions for this tax deduction can be found on Schedule A on the IRS website.


   Philanthropy and Taxes  

While it is true that individuals benefit from charitable giving when tax time comes, some benefit more than others. The IRS allows most individuals to deduct around 60% of their adjusted gross income (AGI). 



There are very wealthy individuals who use charitable giving to shield themselves from large tax bills. But some say billionaires are dodging paying their fair share of taxes under the guise of charitable giving to the needy.


   Statistics on Giving  

Americans and U.S. organizations gave about $484.85 billion to national charities in 2021. That number increased 4% from the previous year's estimated total of $466.23 billion, according to Giving USA as reported by Lilly Family School of Philanthropy. Some of the wealthiest Americans gave as much as $15 billion during the year, which represented 5% of all giving by individuals.



Some of the highlights from Giving USA's annual report include:



Roughly $326.87 billion in donations by individuals
An estimated $90.88 billion by foundations and other organizations
More than $46 billion through bequests, which are made through trusts and wills
More than $28 billion in corporate donations



Religious organizations ($135.78 billion), education ($70.79), and human services ($65.33) received the most money. Donations to environmental and animal organizations (11%), foundations (9.3%), and health (7.7%) grew the most. These figures were not adjusted for inflation.



Although the number rose from 2020, experts at Giving USA say the total didn't keep up with inflation. These were some of the challenges faced by individuals, corporations, and nonprofits alike during and immediately after the COVID-19 pandemic.


   Examples of Philanthropists  

Many people in the United States give money to causes in which they believe. The following are just some of the examples of people and corporations that engage in philanthropic activities.


  Andrew Carnegie  

Perhaps the most famous example of philanthropy came from Andrew Carnegie, simply because of the scale of his giving. Carnegie's wealth helped build more than 2,500 libraries all over the world. He also endowed several universities and a charitable trust that still runs 100 years after Carnegie's death in 1919.



Estimates of his total charitable contributions exceed an estimated $350 million. Carnegie lived up to his credo that a man who dies rich dies disgraced, and the rest of society learned to follow his example.


  The Ford Foundation  

The Ford Foundation's legacy of giving is another example of how philanthropy works, The corporation was established by Edsel Ford, the son of Ford Motor Company founder Henry Ford. The foundation focuses on strengthening democracy, improving economic opportunity, and advancing education.



Some of the areas the organization covers include:



Civic engagement and governmentDisability inclusionGender, racial and ethnic justiceNatural resources and climate change


  Bill and Melinda Gates  

Billionaire and Microsoft mogul Bill Gates and his ex-wife, Melinda, established the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to support global development and global health programs. The organization works globally and in the United States to research and combat disease and to fight poverty. According to the foundation's website, it has spent almost $54 billion on charitable giving since 2000.


  Mother Teresa  

You don't have to be a billionaire or give money away to be considered a philanthropist. In fact, there are notable individuals who aren't ultra-rich and are known for their philanthropic efforts. Mother Teresa is one of the most famous examples. The Catholic nun set up the Order of the Missionaries of Charity (now known simply as the Missionaries of Charity) in Kolkata, India, in 1950. The goal of the organization was to provide vulnerable communities with "material and spiritual welfare."




What Is the Difference Between Charity and Philanthropy?
While some use the words charity and philanthropy interchangeably, philanthropy often casts a broader net of giving. Its role is to help society or groups in the community flourish over a long-term period. Charity is usually based on individual giving and helping in a short-term way, like donating coats to the homeless in winter, helping out or contributing goods to a local food pantry, or sending money to a scholarship fund. These are all acts of charity but may not be considered philanthropic efforts like building a school or a library or donating millions to a scholarship fund.




Which Philanthropist Has Donated the Most Money?
According to an annual report in Forbes magazine, Warren Buffet has donated the most money, $46.1 billion, over his 91 years, as of January 2022.




How Can I Become a Philanthropist?
Anyone can become a philanthropist, even if they are not wealthy individuals. You can donate your time, efforts, and cash to a specific cause, and over time, you may become known as a philanthropist.




What Is Corporate Philanthropy?
Corporate philanthropy is the act of giving to charitable causes and/or organizations by corporations. The most common way of giving through a corporation is by donating money but there are other ways to do so. Some of them include volunteering (like when employees donate their time to charities), scholarships, community investments, and sponsorships.




What Are the Different Types of Philanthropy?
Philanthropy can take on many different forms. It can be done by individuals and corporations. There can be a combination of both, where a company does matching donations whenever someone makes a donation. Or it can be done by bequest, which means instructions are left to give money and other assets to charity in a trust or someone's will. People can donate money directly to charity, fund scholarships, or offer grants and stipends. And it isn't just money that falls under the philanthropic umbrella. In fact, people can donate their time through volunteer work.


   The Bottom Line  

Many of the world's billionaires donate a good portion of their wealth to charitable causes. And it can be hard to live up to that reputation. Contrary to what you may think, you don't have to be among the ultra-rich to be a philanthropist. Donating some of your monthly income may feel like the only way you can do good in the world but there are other ways to make a difference in the world. Giving some of your free time to causes you believe in is also a great way to become a philanthropist.
What Is the Phillips Curve?  

The Phillips curve is an economic theory that inflation and unemployment have a stable and inverse relationship. Developed by William Phillips, it claims that with economic growth comes inflation, which in turn should lead to more jobs and less unemployment.



The original concept of the Phillips curve has been somewhat disproven due to the occurrence of stagflation in the 1970s, when there were high levels of both inflation and unemployment.





Key Takeaways

The Phillips curve states that inflation and unemployment have an inverse relationship. Higher inflation is associated with lower unemployment and vice versa.The Phillips curve was a concept used to guide macroeconomic policy in the 20th century, but was called into question by the stagflation of the 1970s.Understanding the Phillips curve in light of consumer and worker expectations shows that the relationship between inflation and unemployment may not hold in the long run, or even potentially in the short run.


   Understanding the Phillips Curve  

The concept behind the Phillips curve states the change in unemployment within an economy has a predictable effect on price inflation. The inverse relationship between unemployment and inflation is depicted as a downward sloping, concave curve, with inflation on the Y-axis and unemployment on the X-axis. Increasing inflation decreases unemployment, and vice versa. Alternatively, a focus on decreasing unemployment also increases inflation, and vice versa.



The belief in the 1960s was that any fiscal stimulus would increase aggregate demand and initiate the following effects. Labor demand increases, the pool of unemployed workers subsequently decreases and companies increase wages to compete and attract a smaller talent pool. The corporate cost of wages increases and companies pass along those costs to consumers in the form of price increases.



This belief system caused many governments to adopt a "stop-go" strategy where a target rate of inflation was established, and fiscal and monetary policies were used to expand or contract the economy to achieve the target rate. However, the stable trade-off between inflation and unemployment broke down in the 1970s with the rise of stagflation, calling into question the validity of the Phillips curve.


   The Phillips Curve and Stagflation  

Stagflation occurs when an economy experiences stagnant economic growth, high unemployment and high price inflation. This scenario, of course, directly contradicts the theory behind the Phillips curve. The United States never experienced stagflation until the 1970s, when rising unemployment did not coincide with declining inflation. Between 1973 and 1975, the U.S. economy posted six consecutive quarters of declining GDP and at the same time tripled its inflation.


   Expectations and the Long Run Phillips Curve  

The phenomenon of stagflation and the break down in the Phillips curve led economists to look more deeply at the role of expectations in the relationship between unemployment and inflation. Because workers and consumers can adapt their expectations about future inflation rates based on current rates of inflation and unemployment, the inverse relationship between inflation and unemployment could only hold over the short-run.



When the central bank increases inflation in order to push unemployment lower, it may cause an initial shift along the short-run Phillips curve, but as worker and consumer expectations about inflation adapt to the new environment, in the long-run, the Phillips curve itself can shift outward.



This is especially thought to be the case around the natural rate of unemployment or NAIRU (Non Accelerating Inflation Rate of Unemployment), which essentially represents the normal rate of frictional and institutional unemployment in the economy. So in the long-run, if expectations can adapt to changes in inflation rates then the long-run Phillips curve resembles and vertical line at the NAIRU; monetary policy simply raises or lowers the inflation rate aftermarket expectations have worked themselves out.



In the period of stagflation, workers and consumers may even begin to rationally expect inflation rates to increase as soon as they become aware that the monetary authority plans to embark on expansionary monetary policy. This can cause an outward shift in the short-run Phillips curve even before the expansionary monetary policy has been carried out, so that even in the short run the policy has little effect on lowering unemployment, and in effect, the short-run Phillips curve also becomes a vertical line at the NAIRU.
What Is Physical Capital?  

Physical capital is one of what economists call the three main factors of production. It consists of tangible, human-made goods that assist in the process of creating a product or service. The machinery, buildings, office or warehouse supplies, vehicles, and computers that a company owns are all considered part of its physical capital.





Key Takeaways

In economic theory, physical capital is one of the three factors of production.Physical capital consists of tangible, human-made objects that a company buys or invests in and uses to produce goods.Physical capital items, such as manufacturing equipment, also fall into the category of fixed capital, meaning they are reusable, and not consumed during the production process.


   Explaining Physical Capital  

In neoclassical economic theory, factors of production are the inputs required to engage in the production of goods or services in pursuit of profit. Economists generally agree that there are three main factors of production.


  1. Land, Natural Resources, and Real Estate  

These factors include the land or property on which factories, shipping facilities, and stores are built. Natural resources that come out of the ground, such as the corn needed to make tortilla chips or the iron ore used to make steel, also fall into this category.


  2. Human Capital  

This factor includes labor and other resources that humans can provide—education, experience, or unique skills—that contribute to the production process.


  3. Physical Capital  

Sometimes called simply "capital," this factor includes human-made items or products that make the manufacturing process possible or enable it to run smoothly. Some types of physical capital are directly involved in the production, such as the welding equipment that fuses parts of a car on the factory floor. Others are indirectly involved, such as the computers and printers in the executive headquarters.


   Physical Capital and Startups  

New or startup companies invest in physical capital early in their lifecycle, often before they have produced a single good or secured their first client. For example, a company that manufactures microwave ovens must make several investments before it can sell a single device: The firm must build a factory, purchase the machinery it needs to manufacture and assemble the ovens, and finally, it must create some sample devices before any stores carry their product.



The accumulation of physical capital with established firms and the associated investment required can pose a significant barrier to entry for new companies, particularly those in manufacturing-intensive industries.



The diversification of physical capital is a measure of the level of diversification in a particular industry. Consequently, from the perspective of physical capital, starting a new law firm is much easier than opening a new manufacturing plant. Theoretically, an attorney would need only an office—perhaps just a desk, even—a phone, and a computer. The relatively small amount of physical capital is the reason, an economist might argue, law firms outnumber steel manufacturers by a significant margin.


   Example of Physical Capital  

Experts agree that physical capital is an important consideration in a company's valuation. Oddly, however, it can also be one of the most difficult assets to evaluate. First, there can be disagreement over what exactly constitutes physical capital—economists often disagree on the exact parameters of the three factors of production.



For example, take the Coca-Cola Company's corporate headquarters in Atlanta. Some might deem their campus of office buildings as physical capital since they are human-made structures. Others might consider the corporate plaza as falling into the land/real estate category.



Secondly, physical capital is often relatively illiquid because it is usually designed to fulfill a particular purpose. The machine that puts caps on the iconic Coca-Cola soda pop bottles not going to be of much use to anyone outside of another beverage company—and maybe not even then, given that the machine is probably designed to fit the size and shape of the unique Coke glassware.



Most objects of physical capital are also fixed capital, meaning they are not consumed or destroyed during the actual production of a good or service but are reusable. As such, an item of fixed capital has long-term value, but that value can change over time. Usually, it declines.



Again, manufacturing equipment is a prime example—as the machine ages, it becomes worth much less; that's why fixed-capital investments are typically depreciated on the company's accounting statements over a long period (often decades).



On the other hand, the value of physical capital can increase in value if the asset itself is upgraded or there are changes to the firm that affect its value.
What Is a Pigovian Tax?  

A Pigovian (also spelled Pigouvian) tax is a tax assessed against private individuals or businesses for engaging in activities that create adverse side effects for society. Adverse side effects are those costs that are not included as a part of the product's market price. These include environmental pollution, strains on public healthcare from the sale of tobacco products, and any other side effects that have an external, negative impact.



Pigovian taxes were named after English economist, Arthur Pigou, a significant contributor to early externality theory.





Key Takeaways

A Pigovian tax is intended to tax the producer of goods or services that create adverse side effects for society.Economists argue that the costs of these negative externalities, such as environmental pollution, are borne by society rather than the producer.The purpose of the Pigovian tax is to redistribute the cost back to the producer or user of the negative externality.A carbon emissions tax or a tax on plastic bags are examples of Pigovian taxes.Pigovian taxes are meant to equal the cost of the negative externality but can be difficult to determine and if overestimated can harm society.


   Understanding a Pigovian Tax  

The Pigovian tax is meant to discourage activities that impose a cost of production onto third parties and society as a whole. According to Pigou, negative externalities prevent a market economy from reaching equilibrium when producers do not take on all costs of production. This adverse effect might be corrected, he suggested, by levying taxes equal to the externalized costs. Ideally, the tax would be equivalent to the external damage caused by the producer and thereby reduce the external costs going forward.



Negative externalities are not necessarily “bad.” Instead, a negative externality occurs whenever an economic entity does not fully internalize the costs of its activity. In these situations, society, including the environment, bears most of the costs of economic activity.



A popular example of a Pigovian-style tax is a tax on pollution. Pollution from a factory creates a negative externality because impacted third parties bear part of the cost of pollution. This cost might manifest through contaminated property or health risks. The polluter only takes into consideration the private costs, not the external costs.



Once Pigou factored in external costs to society, the economy suffered deadweight loss from excess pollution beyond the “socially optimal” level. Pigou believed that state intervention should correct negative externalities, which he considered a market failure. He suggested that this be accomplished through taxation.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Pigovian Tax  
  Advantages  

Economists favor Pigouvian taxes because they tend to correct for negative externalities, which are generally a burden on the public. For example, air pollution from a factory is borne out in health issues like lung cancer among the population. If the polluter were forced to pay a tax, it would not only help offset the economic cost of such illnesses, it would discourage the factory from polluting so much in the first place. This means that Pigouvian taxes benefit society and tend to improve social welfare, so long as they are properly applied.


  Disadvantages  

Pigou’s externality theories were dominant in mainstream economics for 40 years but lost favor after Nobel Prize-winner, Ronald Coase, presented his ideas. Using Pigou’s analytical framework, Coase demonstrated that Pigou’s examination and solution were often wrong, for at least three separate reasons:



Negative externalities did not necessarily lead to an inefficient result.Even if they were inefficient, Pigovian taxes did not tend to lead to an efficient result.The critical element is transaction cost theory, not externality theory.



Pigovian taxes also encounter what Austrian economist Ludwig von Mises first described as “calculation and knowledge problems.” A government cannot issue the correct Pigovian tax without knowing in advance what the most efficient outcome is. This would require knowing the precise amount of the externality cost imposed by the producer, as well as the correct price and output for the specific market. If lawmakers overestimate the external costs involved, Pigovian taxes cause more harm than good.




Pigouvian Tax Pros and Cons

Pros

Reduces negative externalities
Promotes social welfare
Can generate tax revenue



Cons

Pigouvian taxes are difficult to calculate properly
Imposing the wrong tax would be inefficient and costly
Can unequally impose higher costs on lower-income areas





   Examples of a Pigovian Tax  

Despite any counterarguments towards Pigou's theories, Pigovian taxes are prevalent in society today. One of the most popular Pigovian taxes is a carbon emissions tax. Governments impose a carbon emissions tax on any company that burns fossil fuels. When burned, fossil fuels emit greenhouse gases, the cause of global warming, which is damaging our planet in a multitude of ways.



The carbon tax is intended to factor in the real cost of burning fossil fuels, which is paid by society. The end role of the carbon tax is to ensure that the producers of carbon products are the ones incurring this external cost.



Another Pigovian tax, common in Europe, is a tax on plastic bags, and sometimes even paper bags. This encourages consumers to bring their own reusable bags from home to deter the use of plastic and paper. Plastic is a by-product of burning fossil fuels and results in the damage to marine life, while paper bags encourage deforestation. By charging even a small amount, like a few cents per bag, it encourages shoppers to bring along their own reusable bags.



Taxes on "sin" items like alcohol and cigarettes can be construed as a Pigovian tax. This is because they discourage behavior that not can harm an individual user, but also has knock-on effects for others. Second-hand smoke is an obvious example, but so too is the healthcare burden of smokers who become ill with cancer or emphysema. Alcohol is responsible for drunk driving accidents, including injuries and deaths among innocent others.



All of the above cases cite negative externalities, whose price does not take into consideration the cost to society. The implemented taxes are a measure to redistribute those costs back to the producer or user that generates the negative externality.






Gasoline taxes can be considered Pigouvian taxes since they discourage unnecessary driving, and proceeds are used to build, repair, and upgrade transportation infrastructure that benefits society. Each state has its own gas tax in the U.S., and the federal government imposes an additional gas tax of 18.3 cents per gallon for unleaded gasoline (24.3 cents for diesel).




What Is a Negative Externality?
In economics, a negative externality is a byproduct produced by some individual, business, or industry that has a negative impact on society, but where the entity that created this byproduct does not pay for it. Instead, society pays the price. Examples include air and noise pollution, toxic runoff, and the inadvertent killing of pollinators through pesticides, among several others.




What Is the Difference Between a Pigovian Tax and a Sin Tax?
Pigouvian taxes and sin taxes are quite similar and a specific levy may satisfy both categories. The key difference is that a Pigouvian tax seeks primarily to minimize negative externalities (i.e., harms to others or society as a whole), while sin taxes seek to reduce negative internalities (i.e., harms to oneself). In the case of cigarettes and alcohol, for example, there are both potential negative internalities and externalities.




How Do You Calculate a Pigovian Tax?
Calculating a Pigouvian tax is notoriously difficult to get right. In theory, the amount of the tax should be exactly equal to the net cost of the externality it seeks to remedy. Thus, the tax would be equal to the difference between the social cost and the marginal private cost at a given level of production.
What Does PIIGS Mean?  

PIIGS is a derisive acronym for Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece, and Spain, which were the weakest economies in the eurozone during the European debt crisis. 



At the time, the acronym's five countries garnered attention due to their weakened economic output and financial instability, which heightened doubts about the nations' abilities to pay back bondholders and spurred fears that these nations would default on their debts.





Key Takeaways

PIIGS is a derogatory moniker for Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece, and Spain, that began to be used in the late 1970s to highlight the economic impact of these countries on the EU. The use of this term has largely been discontinued due to its offensive nature.Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece, and Spain were blamed for slowing the eurozone's economic recovery following the 2008 financial crisis by contributing to slow GDP growth, high unemployment, and high debt levels in the area.


   Understanding the PIIGS  

During the U.S. financial crisis in 2008, the Eurozone was comprised of 16 member nations that had adopted the use of a single currency, the euro. During the early 2000s, fueled largely by an extremely accommodative monetary policy, these countries had access to capital at very low interest rates.



Inevitably, this caused some of the weaker economies to borrow aggressively, often at levels that they could not reasonably expect to pay back in the event of a financial shock. The 2008 global financial crisis was this negative shock that led to economic underperformance, which rendered them incapable of paying back the loans they had procured. Furthermore, access to additional sources of capital also dried up.



Since these nations used the euro as their currency, they were unable to deploy independent monetary policies to help battle the global economic downturn that was triggered by the 2008 financial crisis.



To reduce speculation that the EU would abandon these economically disparaged countries, European leaders approved a 750 billion euro stabilization package to support the PIIGS economies in 2010.






The PIIGS acronym is now considered derisive and is rarely used.


   Criticism of PIIGS Acronym  

The use of the acronym "PIGS" and similar terms dates back to the late 1970s. The first recorded use was in 1978 when it was used to identify the underperforming European countries of Portugal, Italy, Greece, and Spain (PIGS). Ireland did not "join" this group until 2008 when the unfolding global financial crisis plunged its economy into an unmanageable level of debt.



Some argue that the term highlights a return of colonial dynamics within the Eurozone. It links the stereotyped assumptions about the cultural characteristics of the people of Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece, and Spain. The use of the term potentially reinforces a perception of those people as lazy, unproductive, corrupt, and/or wasteful. The roots of these stereotypes harken back to the anti-Irish and anti-Mediterranean racism of the British and Ottoman empires.


   Current Status of the Eurozone Economies  

The economic troubles of Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece, and Spain reignited debate about the efficacy of the single currency employed among the eurozone nations by casting doubts on the notion that the European Union can maintain a single currency while attending to the individual needs of each of its member countries.



Critics point out that continued economic disparities could lead to a breakup of the eurozone. In response, EU leaders proposed a peer review system for approval of national spending budgets to promote closer economic integration among EU member states.



On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom voted to leave the EU (Brexit), which many cited as a result of growing unpopularity toward the EU concerning issues such as immigration, sovereignty, and the continued support of member economies suffering through prolonged recessions. This has resulted in higher tax burdens and depreciation of the euro.



While political risks associated with the euro, brought to the fore by Brexit, remain, the debt problems of countries at the European periphery have lightened in recent years. Reports in 2018 have pointed to improved investor sentiment toward the nations, as evidenced by Greece's return to the bond markets in July 2017 and increased demand for Spain's longest-term debt.




What Does PIIGS Stand For?
The derisive acronym "PIIGS" stands for five countries at the periphery of the Eurozone economy: Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece, and Spain.




How Did the Eurozone Get the PIIGS Countries Out of Debt?
During the European sovereign debt crisis, the European Union provided two bailouts to prevent the Greek economy from defaulting. While Greece accepted the first bailout, Greek voters ultimately rejected the second bailout due to required austerity measures. The European Central Bank also issued a $750 million euro rescue package, which was used to prop up Greek bonds on the secondary market. Ireland, Portugal, and Cyprus also received bailouts.




Which EU Countries Supported the PIIGS Bailout?
The leaders of France and Germany, as the core industrial economies of the European Union, played a key role in providing debt relief for the peripheral economies and restoring the confidence of the international credit markets. In addition, the European Central Bank also provided important rescue packages.


   The Bottom Line  

PIIGS refers to several countries at the periphery of the Eurozone economy. In the aftermath of the 2008 recession, those countries—Portugal, Spain, Greece, Ireland, and Italy–had high levels of debt that threatened to cause a renewed financial crisis. Although the crisis has since been averted, the acronym is now considered derisive and has fallen out of use.
What Is PIMCO (Pacific Investment Management Co.)?  

PIMCO, or the Pacific Investment Management Company, is an American investment management firm founded in 1971 in California. The firm focuses on fixed income and manages more than $2.2 trillion in assets. The firm primarily handles portfolio management, account management, and business management.



PIMCO specializes in fixed-income securities. It manages the internationally known Total Return Fund. The company serves institutional investors, high-net-worth individuals, and individual investors with its account services and mutual funds.





Key Takeaways

PIMCO is an American investment company that focuses on fixed-income investments.The most famous product in PIMCO's portfolio is its Total Return Fund, a bond-based mutual fund.Different PIMCO products are geared toward institutional investors and individual investors.


   Understanding PIMCO  

PIMCO was founded in 1971 in Newport Beach, California, by Bill Gross, Jim Muzzy, and Bill Podlich. The firm launched with a total of $12 million in assets and the belief that bonds should be actively traded to enhance returns.



The firm has since expanded to derivatives, mortgage-based securities, emerging markets, and other sectors of the global fixed income market. It has grown to be one of the largest asset management firms in the world. Once a unit of Pacific Mutual Life Insurance, it is now owned by German financial services firm Allianz SE.



As of 2014, Gross had left the firm for Janus Capital Group, Inc. Gross' heir-apparent, Mohamed El-Erian, also departed. In April 2015, former Federal Reserve Chair Ben Bernanke was hired as a senior advisor to PIMCO.


   PIMCO's Strategies  

PIMCO's investment process integrates insights from its Cyclical Forums, which anticipate market and economic trends over a 6- to 12-month period, and the annual Secular Forum, which projects trends over a 3- to 5-year period. The company says it believes that an informed macroeconomic outlook—over long- and short-term horizons—is key to identifying opportunities and potential risks.


   PIMCO's Total Return Fund  

The company's Total Return Fund seeks to maximize capital while preserving capital. The fund, established in 1987, emphasizes higher-quality, intermediate-term bonds and is more globally diversified, therefore aiming to reduce concentration risk. The fund also has flexibility that helps respond to changing economic conditions.



The fund pays a monthly dividend and covers the U.S. investment-grade, fixed-rate bond market with index components for government and corporate securities, mortgage pass-through securities, and asset-backed securities. 


   PIMCO Today  

As per the company's website, PIMCO has more than 3,050 employees who work in offices throughout the Americas, Europe, and Asia. The company boasts more than 900 global investment professionals and more than 260 portfolio managers. As of June 2021, the company managed more than $2.20 trillion in assets.



The company partners with different institutions, from corporations, central banks, private and public pension funds, endowments, and foundations, as well as retirement plans.
"Pink sheets" is an outdated term used to describe stocks that trade over-the-counter (OTC) rather than on a major U.S. stock exchange. These companies cannot or do not want to meet the requirements for listing on a major U.S. stock exchange like the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). They could be too small, foreign, or choose not to file the necessary paperwork with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and avoid all the extra costs that entails.



The term "pink sheet" arose as price quotes for these unlisted stocks used to appear on pink-colored sheets of paper. These securities, the majority of which are viewed as highly speculative, are now subject to more regulation. They also go by a different name. The pink sheets were officially renamed Pink OTC Markets in 2008 and then OTC Markets Group in 2011. However, the colloquial term is still widely used.





Key Takeaways

Pink sheets is an old, outdated term used to describe stocks that trade over-the-counter (OTC).These companies are not listed on a major U.S. stock exchange and face less regulatory oversight, making them risky investments.They were renamed Pink OTC Markets in 2008 and then OTC Markets Group in 2011, but the term is still widely used.OTC Markets has three regulated main marketplaces for trading OTC stocks: OTCQX, OTCQB, and the Pink market.The Pink market is the most speculative and loosely regulated, although the rules have tightened in recent years.


   Understanding the Pink Open Market  

The "Pink" marker was named for the color of the paper on which quotes of share prices were published. Today's trades are electronic, but whenever OTC stocks were mentioned in conversation, the name lived on as "pink."



The OTC market is a decentralized market where securities, not listed on major exchanges, are traded directly by a network of dealers, who carry inventories of securities to facilitate orders. OTC securities generally trade on Alternative Trading Systems (ATSs). There are two interdealer quotation systems for trading OTC securities: Global OTC ATS, which is part of the NYSE Group, and OTC Link ATS, which is operated by OTC Markets.



OTC Market Group has three regulated main marketplaces for trading OTC stocks: OTCQX, OTCQB, and the Pink market. Each of these markets has varying levels of financial standards and regulatory oversight. The Pink market is considered the most speculative and loosely regulated tier for trading OTC stocks. It is an open market with very little in the way of financial standards.



Depending on the quantity and promptness of information they share with investors, these companies can be further divided into categories, such as current or limited.






There used to be another OTC exchange called the OTC Bulletin Board (OTCBB), but it was closed in 2021.


   The Pink Market vs. OTCQX vs. OTCQB vs. Expert  

Unlisted securities either qualify for OTC Market's OTCQX or OTCQB or by default trade on Pink. The OTCQX has the most stringent requirements, followed by the OTCQB, the Pink Open Market, and then finally the Expert Market. Companies in the Expert Market provide the lowest level of disclosure, with trading in this market, as a result, limited to quotation on an unsolicited basis.



Being easy to get into means companies generally don't need to jump over many hurdles to get into the Pink market. This market is made up of all sorts of companies, including foreign ones, penny stocks, and some shell companies.Because they face very few listing requirements, Pink market constituents can be extremely volatile and risky to invest in. Securities in this category are not required to register with the SEC and keep the public informed of everything they are up to. That makes it harder for investors to determine who is legit and who might not be.






Companies in the Pink market are now required to disclose their financials.


   Pink Market Regulation  

The terminology around pink sheets and OTC stock trading has changed along with regulations. This part of the market has attracted a lot of controversy over the years, leading to calls for greater transparency.



A few requirements have steadily been introduced. One change was to remove so-called "dark securities" from the market entirely. Another was to restrict broker-dealers and other market makers from publishing quotations for OTC stocks that do not provide publically available information about their financials. That was part of an amendment made to Rule 15c2-11.



Companies can create their own disclosure document or fill out a form. Once completed and verified, they must post the information on the OTC Markets website for everybody to see. Not any old information can be published. The disclosures must follow the guidelines. One guideline is that financial statements, while not required to be audited, must be prepared according to U.S. GAAP or International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).



For regular domestic companies, the following information must be published:



Most recent annual report with two-year comparative financial statements and any subsequent quarterly reports.A disclosure statement.An attorney letter that follows the guidelines for unaudited companies.



Requirements for international companies and banks vary slightly.


   Pink Market Tiers: Current and Limited  

Within the Pink market exist tiers. Companies that fully abide by the disclosure rules are dubbed "current," whereas those who do the bare minimum under Rule 15c2-11 and are perhaps late with filings are downgraded to the “Pink Limited” market tier.



Pink Limited is essentially a demotion from the Pink current status for those who don't fully abide by Rule 15c2-11. That demotion can lead to restrictions and is generally less favorable.When a company no longer meets the requirements for limited information, it will be moved to the Expert Market, where there are no public broker-dealer quotations.


   Pros and Cons of the Pink Market  

Pink market listings offer small companies a chance to raise capital through the sale of shares to the public and make it easy for an investor to take a stake in the market with transaction costs often low.



However, these securities are prone to fraud and price manipulation due to the lack of financial information required to list and lack of regulation. There is less public information and transparency surrounding the companies, and shares often trade infrequently, making it hard to buy or sell when the investor wants.





Pros

Pink market listings provide small companies access to capital funding.
Low share prices leave room for fast gains if the company succeeds.
Transaction costs are lower since companies do not pay expensive exchange listing fees.



Cons

Fewer regulations and requirements can lead to outdated or incorrect information given to the investor. 
Pink market stocks trade thinly making it hard for an investor to buy or sell shares at will.
Pink market listings are prone to fraud.





   Examples of Pink Securities  

OTC Markets Group lists the most actively traded companies on the Pink market. They include:



Luckin Coffee Inc. (LKNCY), the Chinese coffee chainTencent Holdings LTD (TCEHY), the Chinese multimedia companyDiDi Global Inc. (DIDIY), the Chinese mobility technology platformSAP SE (SAPGF), the German software company






Some large, very reputable international companies trade on the Pink market. They list on their home country exchanges but may find the duplication of regulatory paperwork for a large U.S. exchange too onerous.




What Is OTC Link?
OTC Link LLC is owned by OTC Markets Group Inc., which operates OTC Link ATS, an Alternative Trading System (ATS) and electronic inter-dealer quotation system that displays quotes from broker-dealers for many over-the-counter (OTC) securities. Broker-dealers who buy and sell OTC securities can use OTC Link ATS to publish their bid and ask quotation prices.




Where Can I Find Information on OTC Bitcoin Investing?
The SEC provides information on OTC offerings and states that digital assets and technology bring increased risk of fraud and manipulation because the markets for these assets are less regulated than traditional capital markets.




What Was One of the Most Successful Penny Stock Offerings?
True Religion Jeans traded under a dollar per share in the early to mid-2000s and in 2013 the company was acquired by Towerbrook Capital Partners for $32 per share, netting investors a 5,000% increase.


   The Bottom Line  

For many years, people used the term "Pink market" to refer to any over-the-counter (OTC) security, meaning any investment not listed and tradable on a major U.S. stock exchange. Now there is more transparency about OTC investments.



OTC Markets Group offers a range of different markets for trading OTC securities. Each of them has varying levels of financial standards and regulatory oversight. The Pink market is the one with the fewest requirements, making it fairly easy for companies to get into and risky for investors.



That said, there are legitimate companies in this market, including some of the world’s biggest. Moreover, disclosure requirements are becoming more stringent, which has helped to boost transparency and weed out some of the shadier companies.
What Is the Piotroski Score?  

The Piotroski score is a discrete score between zero and nine that reflects nine criteria used to determine the strength of a firm's financial position. The Piotroski score is used to determine the best value stocks, with nine being the best and zero being the worst.



The Piotroski score was named after Chicago Accounting Professor Joseph Piotroski, who devised the scale, according to specific aspects of company financial statements. Aspects are focused on the company’s accounting results in recent time periods (years). For every criterion met (noted below), one point is awarded; otherwise, no points are awarded. The points are then added up to determine the best value stocks.





Key Takeaways

The Piotroski score is a ranking between zero and nine that incorporates nine factors that speak to a firm's financial strength.It was named for Joseph Piotroski, a Chicago Accounting Professor who created the scale, based on certain aspects of a corporation's financial statements.The nine aspects are based on accounting results over a number of years; a point is awarded each time a standard is met, resulting in an overall score.The Piotroski score is a favorite metric used to judge value stocks.If a company has a score of eight or nine, it is considered a good value. If a company has a score of between zero and two points, it is likely not a good value.


   Understanding the Piotroski Score  

The Piotroski score is broken down into the following categories:



ProfitabilityLeverage, liquidity, and source of fundsOperating efficiency


  Profitability Criteria Include:  

Positive net income (1 point)
Positive return on assets (ROA) in the current year (1 point)
Positive operating cash flow in the current year (1 point)
Cash flow from operations being greater than net Income (quality of earnings) (1 point)


  Leverage, Liquidity, and Source of Funds Criteria Include:  

Lower amount of long term debt in the current period, compared to the previous year (decreased leverage) (1 point)
Higher current ratio this year compared to the previous year (more liquidity) (1 point)
No new shares were issued in the last year (lack of dilution) (1 point).


  Operating Efficiency Criteria Include:  

A higher gross margin compared to the previous year (1 point)
A higher asset turnover ratio compared to the previous year (1 point)


   Reading the Score  

If a company has a score of 8 or 9, it is considered a good value. If the score adds up to between 0-2 points, the stock is considered weak. Piotroski's April 2000 paper "Value Investing: The Use of Historical Financial Statement Information to Separate Winners from Losers," demonstrated that the Piotroski score method would have seen a 23% annual return between 1976 and 1996 if the expected winners were bought and expected losers shorted. As a starting point, Piotroski suggested investors begin with a sample of the bottom 20% of the market in terms of price-to-book value.



Of course, with any investment system, looking at past results doesn't mean it will work the same way in the future. Those interested in learning more about the Piotroski Score and other financial topics may want to consider enrolling in one of the best investing courses currently available.


   Scoring With the Piotrosky Method  

As an example of the Piotrosky scoring method in action, note the following criteria calculations for Foot Locker, Inc. (FL) for fiscal year 2020. The profitability calculation was as follows:



Net income ($323,000,000) (Score:1 point)ROA (4.7%) (Score: 1 point)Net operating cash flow ($696,000,000) (Score: 1 point)Cash flow from operations ($696,000,000) > net income ($323,000,000) (Score: 1 point)



The leverage calculation was as follows:



Long-term debt ($110,000,000) versus prior year's long-term debt ($120,000,000) (Score: 1 point)Current ratio (1.7) versus prior year's current ratio (2.0) (Score: 0 points)No new shares issued in 2020 (Score: 1 point)



The efficiency calculation was as follows:



Gross margin (28.9%) versus prior year's gross margin (31.8%) (Score: 0 points)Asset turnover ratio (1.11) versus prior year's (1.54) (Score: 0 points)



Foot Locker's total Piotrosky score in 2016 was a 6 out of 9, which could make it an average value proposition going into 2022, according to the Piotrosky method.
What Is a Pip?  

"Pip" is an acronym for percentage in point or price interest point. A pip is the smallest whole unit price move that an exchange rate can make, based on forex market convention.



Most currency pairs are priced out to four decimal places and a single pip is in the fourth decimal place (i.e., 1/10,000th). For example, the smallest whole unit move the USD/CAD currency pair can make is $0.0001, or one pip.



Pips, which are used in forex trading, should not be confused with bps (basis points) used in interest rates markets that represent 1/100th of 1% (i.e., 0.01%).





Key Takeaways

Forex currency pairs are quoted in terms of pips, short for percentage in points.In practical terms, a pip is one-hundredth of one percent (1/100 x .01) and appears in the fourth decimal place (0.0001).It is the smallest price change increment for most forex pairs.The bid-ask spread of a forex quote is typically measured in pips.


   Understanding Pips  

A pip is a basic concept of foreign exchange (forex). Forex traders buy and sell a currency whose value is expressed in relation to another currency. Quotes for these forex pairs appear as bid and ask spreads that are accurate to four decimal places.



Movement in the exchange rate is measured by pips. Since most currency pairs are quoted to a maximum of four decimal places, the smallest whole unit change for these pairs is one pip.


  Calculating Pip Value  

The value of a pip depends on the currency pair, the exchange rate, and the trade value. When your forex account is funded with U.S. dollars and USD is the second of the pair (or the quote currency), such as with the EUR/USD pair, the pip is fixed at .0001.



In this case, the value of one pip is calculated by multiplying the trade value (or lot size) by 0.0001. So, for the EUR/USD pair, multiply a trade value of, say, 10,000 euros by .0001. The pip value is $1. If you bought 10,000 euros against the dollar at 1.0801 and sold at 1.0811, you'd make a profit of 10 pips or $10.



On the other hand, when the USD is the first of the pair (or the base currency), such as with the USD/CAD pair, the pip value also involves the exchange rate. Divide the size of a pip by the exchange rate and then multiply by the trade value.



For example, .0001 divided by a USD/CAD exchange rate of 1.2829 and then multiplied by a standard lot size of 100,000 results in a pip value of $7.79. If you bought 100,000 USD against the Canadian dollar at 1.2829 and sold at 1.2830, you'd make a profit of 1 pip or $7.79.


  JPY Exception  

Japanese yen (JPY) pairs are quoted with 2 decimal places, marking a notable exception to the four decimal place rule. For currency pairs such as the EUR/JPY and USD/JPY, the value of a pip is 1/100 divided by the exchange rate. For example, if the EUR/JPY is quoted as 132.62, one pip is 1/100 ÷ 132.62 = 0.0000754. With a lot size of 100,000 euros, the value of one pip (in USD) would be $7.54.






Fractional pips are smaller than pips and, thus, a more precise measurement. They appear as a superscript numeral at the end of a quoted exchange rate. A fractional pip, or "pipette," is 1/10 of a pip.


   Pips and Profitability  

The movement of the exchange rate of a currency pair determines whether a trader makes a profit or loss at the end of the day. A trader who buys the EUR/USD will profit if the euro increases in value relative to the U.S. dollar. If the trader bought the euro for 1.1835 and exited the trade at 1.1901, they would make 66 pips on the trade (1.1901 - 1.1835).



Now, let's consider a trader who buys the Japanese Yen by selling the USD/JPY pair at 112.06. The trader loses 3 pips on the trade if they close out the position at 112.09. They profit by 5 pips if they close it out at 112.01.



While the difference may look small, in the multi-trillion dollar foreign exchange market, gains and losses can add up quickly. For example, on a $10 million position that closed at 112.01, the trader would make ¥500,000. In U.S. dollars, that's $4,463.89 ( ¥500,000/112.01).


   Real-World Examples of Pip  

A combination of hyperinflation and devaluation can push exchange rates to the point where they become unmanageable. In addition to impacting consumers who are forced to carry large amounts of cash, this can make trading unmanageable and the concept of a pip loses meaning.



A well-known historical example of this took place in Germany's Weimar Republic, when the exchange rate collapsed from its pre-World War I level of 4.2 marks per dollar to 4.2 trillion marks per dollar in November 1923.



Another case in point is the Turkish lira, which reached a level of 1.6 million per dollar in 2001, which many trading systems could not accommodate. The government eliminated six zeros from the exchange rate and renamed it the new Turkish lira. As of January 2021, the average exchange rate stands at a more reasonable 7.3 lira per dollar.




What's a Pip?
A pip is the smallest whole unit measurement of the difference between the bid and ask spread in a foreign exchange quote. A pip equals 1/100 of 1%, or .0001. Thus, the forex quote extends out to four decimal places. Smaller price increments are measured by fractional pips, or "pipettes."




What Is the Difference Between a Pip and a Pippette?
In the context of the foreign exchange market, a pip is a standard unit of measure for changes in an exchange rate, representing a move of 0.0001 (1/10,000). This is the smallest price change increment for most currency pairs.A pipette equals 1/10 of a pip and it represents a fraction of 1/100,000.A pip, therefore, relates to movement in the fourth decimal place, while a pipette is used to measure movement in the fifth decimal place.




How Are Pips Used?
They are a part of a currency pair's exchange rate market quote. Pips represent the change in the quote and value of a position in the market you may have taken. Say, hypothetically, you bought a currency pair for 1.1356 and sold it for 1.1360. You made 4 pips on your trade. You'd have to then calculate the value of a single pip and multiply that by your lot size for the dollar value of your profit.




Does the Japanese Yen Forex Rate Use Pips?
Yes, it does. However, the yen is an exception. A quote for the yen normally extends two decimal places past the decimal point. So, a single whole unit pip is .01 rather than the .0001 for other currency pairs.




What Is the Spread in a Forex?
The forex spread is the bid price subtracted from the ask price of a currency pair. For example, if EUR/USD has an ask price of 1.1053 and a bid price of 1.1051, then the spread is 0.0002 or 2 pips.To calculate the cost of the forex spread, you need to multiply the spread by the trade size or volume. For example, if you trade 100,000 units of EUR/USD with a 2-pip spread, then the cost of the spread is $20.00 = (0.0002 x 100,000).


   The Bottom Line  

The concept of pips is fundamental in the forex market and serves as a significant basis for making trading decisions. A pip, or Percentage in Point, is a basic measure used in the forex market for currency movements. It is typically the smallest price move that a given exchange rate makes based on market convention. Understanding pips is crucial for forex traders as it allows them to quantify the value of their potential gains or losses, and manage their leverage and risk accordingly.
What Is a Pitchbook?  

A pitchbook is a sales document created by an investment bank or firm that details the main attributes of the firm, which is then used by the firm's sales force to help sell products and services and generate new clients. Pitchbooks are helpful guides for the sales force to remember important benefits and to provide visual aids when presenting to clients.





Key Takeaways

A pitchbook is sort of field guide used by a firm's sales force to make clear key points and to remember important benefitsThese often also provide handy visual aids when pitching to prospective clients.The main pitchbook contains an overview and main attributes of the selling firm.Product pitchbooks contain details about a specific product or deal.


   How a Pitchbook Works  

There are two main types of pitchbooks. There is the main pitchbook, which contains all the main attributes of the firm, and one that contains details about a specific deal, such as a company's initial public offering (IPO) or investment product.



The main pitchbook provides a general overview of the firm. For an investment bank, it would show information such as the number of analysts, its prior IPO success and the number of deals it completes per year. For an investment firm, it would feature information such as the financial strength of the company, and the many resources and services available for its clients.



If the pitchbook is being used by a team or individual financial adviser, there could be biographical information as well. All the details displayed in the pitchbook are points that the sales team should focus on when selling the benefits of the firm to potential clients.






For start-up companies, a pitchbook is more commonly known as a pitch deck.


   Types of Pitch Books  

For an investment bank, a pitchbook focuses on all the benefits of the issue, helping brokers and investment bankers demonstrate how the firm can serve the specific needs of their potential clients. It would have more detailed information about how the potential IPO process could playout for the potential client. It would also show comparable IPOs within the same industry that the investment bank has had success with in the past.



For an investment firm, the pitchbook would be more product-oriented. It could show the track record of an investment portfolio, using charts and comparisons to an appropriate benchmark. If the investment strategy is more advanced, it would display the method of selecting stocks and other informational data that would help the potential client understand the strategy.


   Example of a Pitchbook  

In 2011, the company Autonomy was the acquisition target of several larger competitors. Hewlett Packard and Oracle were interested, but HP eventually became the victor and acquired the software infrastructure company. Oracle decided to post an IPO pitchbook, which was developed by the firm Qatalyst Partners, on its website.



In the pitchbook, Qatalyst shows examples of how Oracle would benefit from acquiring Autonomy, showing it would increase its competitive advantage in areas where Oracle had no footing. It also showed the key financial metrics of the company and how it had both positive revenue and margin growth. The book also featured the partners and customers that Oracle would immediately acquire once it purchased the company. It also went into detail about Autonomy's management team and directors.
What Is a Pivot Point?  

A pivot point is a technical analysis indicator, or calculations, used to determine the overall trend of the market over different time frames. The pivot point itself is simply the average of the intraday high and low, and the closing price from the previous trading day. On the subsequent day, trading above the pivot point is thought to indicate ongoing bullish sentiment, while trading below the pivot point indicates bearish sentiment.



The pivot point is the basis for the indicator, but it also includes other support and resistance levels that are projected based on the pivot point calculation. All these levels help traders see where the price could experience support or resistance. Similarly, if the price moves through these levels it lets the trader know the price is trending in that direction.






A pivot point is an intraday technical indicator used to identify trends and reversals mainly in equities, commodities, and forex markets.Pivot points are calculated to determine levels in which the sentiment of the market could change from bullish to bearish, and vice-versa.Day traders calculate pivot points to determine levels of entry, stops, and profit-taking.












Investopedia / Dennis Madamba


   The Formulas for Pivot Points:  

﻿














P


=




High


+


Low


+


Close



3

















R


1


=


(


P


×


2


)


−


Low
















R


2


=


P


+


(


High


−


Low


)
















S


1


=


(


P


×


2


)


−


High
















S


2


=


P


−


(


High


−


Low


)
















where:
















P


=


Pivot point
















R


1


=


Resistance 1
















R


2


=


Resistance 2
















S


1


=


Support 1
















S


2


=


Support 2







\begin{aligned} &P = \frac{\text{High} + \text{Low} + \text{Close}}{3}\\ &R1 = (P \times 2) - \text{Low}\\ &R2 = P + (\text{High} - \text{Low})\\ &S1 = (P \times 2) - \text{High}\\ &S2 = P - (\text{High} - \text{Low})\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &P=\text{Pivot point}\\ &R1=\text{Resistance 1}\\ &R2=\text{Resistance 2}\\ &S1=\text{Support 1}\\ &S2=\text{Support 2}\\ \end{aligned}


​P=3High+Low+Close​R1=(P×2)−LowR2=P+(High−Low)S1=(P×2)−HighS2=P−(High−Low)where:P=Pivot pointR1=Resistance 1R2=Resistance 2S1=Support 1S2=Support 2​﻿﻿﻿



Note that:



High indicates the highest price from the prior trading day,Low indicates the lowest price from the prior trading day, andClose indicates the closing price from the prior trading day.






   How to Calculate Pivot Points  

The pivot point indicator can be added to a chart, and the levels will automatically be calculated and shown. Here's how to calculate them yourself, keeping in mind that pivot points are predominantly used by day traders and are based on the high, low, and close from the prior trading day.



If it is Wednesday morning, use the high, low, and close from Tuesday to create the pivot point levels for the Wednesday trading day.



After the market closes, or before it opens the next day, find the day's high and low, as well as the close from the most recent previous trading day.Sum the high, low, and close and then divide by three.Mark this price on the chart as P.Once P is known, calculate S1, S2, R1, and R2. The high and low in these calculations are from the prior trading day.















TradingView.


   What Do Pivot Points Tell You?  

Pivot points are an intraday indicator for trading futures, commodities, and stocks. Unlike moving averages or oscillators, they are static and remain at the same prices throughout the day. This means traders can use the levels to help plan out their trading in advance.



For example, traders know that if the price falls below the pivot point they will likely be shorting early in the session. Conversely, if the price is above the pivot point, they will be buying. S1, S2, R1, and R2 can be used as target prices for such trades, as well as stop-loss levels.



Combining pivot points with other trend indicators is common practice with traders. A pivot point that also overlaps or converges with a 50-period or 200-period moving average (MA), or Fibonacci extension level, becomes a stronger support/resistance level.


   Pivot Points vs. Fibonacci Retracements  

Pivot points and Fibonacci retracements or extensions both draw horizontal lines to mark potential support and resistance areas. The Fibonacci indicator is useful because it can be drawn between any two significant price points, such as a high and a low. It will then create the levels between those two points.



Fibonacci retracement and extension levels can thus be created by connecting any price points on a chart. Once the levels are chosen, lines are drawn at percentages of the price range selected.



Pivot points, in contrast, do not use percentages and are based on set fixed numbers: the high, low, and close of the prior day.


   Limitations of Pivot Points  

Pivot points are based on a simple calculation, and while they work for some traders, others may not find them useful. There is no assurance the price will stop at, reverse at, or even reach the levels created on the chart.



Other times the price will move back and forth through a level. As with all indicators, it should only be used as part of a complete trading plan.
What Is Plain Vanilla?  

Plain vanilla is the most basic or standard version of a financial instrument, usually options, bonds, futures, and swaps. It is the opposite of an exotic instrument, which alters the components of a traditional financial instrument, resulting in a more complex security.





Key Takeaways

Plain vanilla is the most basic version of a financial instrument and comes with no special features.Options, bonds, other financial instruments, and economic modes of thinking can be plain vanilla.Plain vanilla is associated with low risk whereas exotic instruments are associated with higher risk.A plain vanilla strategy was deemed necessary after the financial crisis of 2007, which led to the creation of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.


   Understanding Plain Vanilla  

Plain vanilla describes the simplest form of an asset or financial instrument. There are no frills, no extras, and it can be applied to categories such as options or bonds.



Plain vanilla can also be used to describe more generalized financial concepts, such as trading strategies or modes of thinking in economics. For example, a plain vanilla card is a credit card with simply defined terms. Plain vanilla debt comes with fixed-rate borrowing and no other features, so the borrower has no convertibility rights.



A plain-vanilla approach to financing is called a vanilla strategy. Calls for this came after the 2007 economic recession when risky mortgages contributed to the housing market collapse. During the Obama administration, many pushed for a regulatory agency to incentivize a plain vanilla approach to financing mortgages, stipulating­—among other tenets—that lenders would have to offer standardized, low-risk mortgages to customers.


   Plain Vanilla Instruments  

A vanilla option gives the holder the right to buy or sell the underlying asset at a predetermined price within a specific timeframe. This call or put option comes with no special terms or features. It has a simple expiration date and strike price. Investors and companies will use them to hedge their exposure to an asset or to speculate on an asset's price movement.



A plain vanilla swap can include a plain vanilla interest rate swap in which two parties enter into an agreement where one party agrees to pay a fixed rate of interest on a certain dollar amount on specified dates and for a specified time period. The counterparty makes payments on a floating interest rate to the first party for the same period of time. This is an exchange of interest rates on certain cash flows and is used to speculate on changes in interest rates. There are also plain vanilla commodity swaps and plain vanilla foreign currency swaps.


   Plain Vanilla vs. Exotic Options  

In the financial world, the opposite of plain vanilla is exotic. So an exotic option involves much more complicated features or special circumstances that separate them from the more common American or European options. Exotic options are associated with more risk as they require an advanced understanding of financial markets in order to execute them correctly or successfully, and as such, they trade over-the-counter (OTC).



Examples of exotic options include binary or digital options, in which the payout methods differ. Under certain terms, they offer a final lump sum payout rather than a payout that increases incrementally as the underlying asset’s price rises. Other exotic options include Bermuda options and quantity-adjusting options.


   Plain Vanilla and Dodd-Frank  

There was a push to make the financial system safer and fairer in the wake of the 2007 global financial crisis. This was reflected in the passing of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in 2010, which also enabled the creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). The CFPB enforces consumer risk protection in part through regulating financing options that call for a plain-vanilla approach.



In 2018, President Donald Trump signed a bill easing back some of the restrictions on all of the nation's banks except those considered to be the largest. This included raising the threshold at which they are deemed too important to fail from $50 billion to $250 billion and allowing the institutions to forego any stress tests. The CFPB was also stripped of some of its power, notably its enforcement of cases involving discriminatory lending practices.
What Is Planned Obsolescence?  

Planned obsolescence describes a strategy of deliberately ensuring that the current version of a given product will become out of date or useless within a known time period. This proactive move guarantees that consumers will seek replacements in the future, thus bolstering demand.



Obsolescence can be achieved through introducing a superior replacement model, or by intentionally designing a product to cease proper function within a specific window. In either case, consumers will theoretically favor the next generational products over the old ones.





Key Takeaways

Planned obsolescence is the calculated act of making sure the existing version of a product will become dated or useless within a given time frame.In technology circles, the replacement cycle for smartphones has historically been two to three years, as their underlying components wear down.In the clothing space, nylon stockings are likely to snag, snare, or run, thereby demanding replacement on a regular basis.


   Understanding Planned Obsolescence  

Several sectors are more well known for planned obsolescence than others. In fashion, it's widely accepted that nylon stockings are destined to run, thereby requiring routine replacement.



Meanwhile, in technology, the replacement cycle for personal electronic devices such as smartphones has historically been two to three years because components begin to wear down and new generations of software and operating systems grow less compatible with the aging hardware. Furthermore, software is also often designed to include new features and file types that are incompatible with old versions of the program.






Planned obsolescence differs from perceived obsolescence, which is when designers make frequent stylistic changes to their products, due to the decrease in the perceived desirability of unfashionable items.



Not to be outdone, computer hardware is also a candidate for planned obsolescence because computing power in microprocessors typically follows Moore's Law, which observes that the number of transistors able to fit on an integrated circuit double about every two years—and the cost of processing power halves every two years.



Finally, planned obsolescence also affects automobile manufacturers, who annually roll out new versions of their models.


   Special Considerations  
  Consumer Reaction  

Consumers often react negatively to planned obsolescence, especially if new generations of products offer insufficient improvements over the prior versions. Brands can be tarnished by artificially stoking demand through this method, ultimately driving customers away.



However, planned obsolescence doesn't always receive negative attention. Companies can engage in this activity solely as a means of controlling costs. For example, a cellphone manufacturer may decide to use parts in its phones that have a maximum lifespan of five years, instead of parts that could last 20 years.


  Apple’s Planned Obsolescence  

Apple Inc. has often been at the center of skeptical consumer discourse. The company announced a plan to accept direct payments from iPhone users for hardware that could be exchanged annually.



Observers noted the company's clear intent to shorten the replacement cycle, which was viewed by many as an obvious attempt to stimulate demand at the consumer's expense. Skeptics doubted Apple's ability to engineer meaningful improvements to functionality so quickly—a problem that many phone makers already faced with two- and three-year replacement cycles.



While Apple has refused to acknowledge that it engages in planned obsolescence, a Harvard University study found that some iOS upgrades have slowed down the processor speed of older iPhone models, but not for the explicit purpose of driving new iPhone sales. Apple recently settled a 2017 class-action lawsuit over the issue, agreeing to issue payouts to customers and state governments over what has been referred to as "batterygate."



Of course, while Apple is notorious for this practice, it has not been proved unequivocally. And even if it were the case, some economists argue that planned obsolescence drives technological progress. Besides, other manufacturers, such as the makers of Android phones and tablets also release new versions of their products annually.
What Is Platinum?  

Platinum is a chemical element, precious metal, and commodity that manufacturers use primarily for jewelry, electronics, and automobiles. It appears on the periodic table of elements by the symbol Pt and atomic number 78.﻿﻿ Platinum futures are commodities contracts traded on the CME's COMEX futures exchange (under symbol PL) and the Tokyo Commodity Exchange.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿ It is also possible to invest in platinum by purchasing shares of an exchange-traded fund that specializes in the commodity.


   Understanding Platinum  

Spanish general of the navy and scientist Antonio de Ulloa introduced platinum to Europe in 1735. Due to its silvery or white appearance, Ulloa named the metal plantina, which means little silver. Today, platinum is mined in South Africa, which accounts for roughly 80% of the world's production. Russia is the second-biggest producer. About half of the mined platinum from China goes into jewelry, where it is desirable because it looks silver in color but does not tarnish. Platinum is also stronger and more durable than gold.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

Platinum is a metal used in jewelry, automobiles, and electronics.Platinum is much stronger and rarer than gold.Traders can buy and sell platinum futures, while investors can participate with ETFs that specialize in the commodity.The price of platinum has been trending lower since the 2007-2008 financial crisis, as investors show greater interest in other metals like gold and South African mines have substantially increased production of platinum.



In the United States, platinum engagement rings are a popular alternative to white gold engagement rings, which are composed of gold, alloys, and a rhodium plating that gives them a white look. But rhodium fades over time, requiring white gold rings to be replaced, whereas platinum rings maintain their gleam for longer periods of time.



The auto industry uses platinum for catalytic converters, which can help reduce the toxicity of gases and pollutants in the exhaust that an internal combustion engine creates. Platinum and other platinum-grade metals in catalytic converters have led to a secondary market for scrap converters, which scrap businesses will buy in order to extract the metal for resale. The metal is also used in thermometers, laboratory equipment, electrodes, and dentistry equipment.



Platinum is one of the most valuable elements in the world, and considered one of the most costly precious metal commodities. However, while platinum traded at a significant premium to gold for decades, it has not since 2008; as a weak global economy put a damper on demand for the precious metal, but investor unease about central bank stimulus and other economic matters sent gold prices higher.



Since the financial crisis of 2007-2008, platinum has generally performed worse than other metals like gold, silver, and palladium. Market observers believe a crash in platinum markets in 2008 scared the investment class away from the metal, leaving the automobile and jewelry industries as platinum’s only source of demand. In addition, South African mines have substantially increased production of platinum since 2014 and added to global supplies.
What Does Platykurtic Mean?  

The term "platykurtic" refers to a statistical distribution in which the excess kurtosis value is negative. For this reason, a platykurtic distribution will have thinner tails than a normal distribution will, resulting in fewer extreme positive or negative events. The opposite of a platykurtic distribution is a leptokurtic distribution, in which excess kurtosis is positive.



Investors will consider which statistical distributions are associated with different types of investments when deciding where to invest. More risk-averse investors might prefer assets and markets with platykurtic distributions because those assets are less likely to produce extreme results.





Key Takeaways

Platykurtic distributions are those with negative excess kurtosis.They have a lower likelihood of extreme events compared to a normal distribution.To minimize the risk of large negative events, risk-averse investors can focus on investments whose returns follow a platykurtic distribution.


   Understanding Platykurtic Distributions  

There are three basic kinds of statistical distributions: leptokurtic, mesokurtic, and platykurtic. These distributions differ depending on their amount of excess kurtosis, which relates to the probability of extreme positive or negative events. The normal distribution, which is a type of mesokurtic distribution, has a kurtosis of three. Therefore, distributions with kurtosis greater than three are said to have "positive excess kurtosis," while those with kurtosis of less than three are said to have "negative excess kurtosis."



Though mesokurtic distributions have a kurtosis of three, leptokurtic and platykurtic distributions have positive and negative excess kurtosis, respectively. Therefore, leptokurtic distributions have a relatively high probability of extreme events, whereas the opposite is true for platykurtic distributions.



The following figures show charts of these three types of distributions, all with the same standard deviation. Although the figure on the left does not reveal much of the differences between these distributions' tails, the figure on the right gives a clearer view by plotting the quantiles of the distributions against each other. This technique is known as a quantile-quantile plot, or Q-Q for short.















Kurtosis.
Investopedia 


   Special Considerations  

Most investors believe that equity market returns more closely resemble a leptokurtic distribution than a platykurtic one. That is, while most returns are likely to be similar to the average return for the market as a whole, returns will occasionally deviate widely from the mean. These dramatic and unpredictable events, sometimes referred to as black swans, are less likely to occur in markets that are platykurtic.



For this reason, more cautious investors might avoid investing in leptokurtic markets and focus on investments offering platykurtic returns. On the other hand, some investors deliberately pursue investments with leptokurtic returns, believing that their extreme positive returns will more than compensate for their extreme negative returns.


   Real-World Example of a Platykurtic Distribution  

Morningstar published a research paper that featured information on the excess kurtosis levels of different types of assets, as observed between February 1994 and June 2011. The list included a wide range of investments, from U.S. and international equities to real estate, commodities, cash, and bonds.



The levels of excess kurtosis were similarly varied. On the low end of the spectrum were cash and international bonds, which had excess kurtosis of -1.43 and 0.58, respectively. On the other end of the spectrum were U.S. high-yield bonds and hedge-fund arbitrage strategies, offering excess kurtosis of 9.33 and 22.59.



Asset classes with intermediate levels of excess kurtosis included international real estate (2.61), equities from international emerging economies (1.98), and commodities (2.29).



An investor looking at this data could quickly discern what kinds of assets they wish to invest in, given their tolerance for potential black swan events. Risk-averse investors who want to minimize the likelihood of extreme events could focus on low-kurtosis investments, while investors more comfortable with extreme events could focus on high-kurtosis ones.
What Is a Pledged Asset?  

A pledged asset is an asset that is used by a lender to secure a debt or loan and can include cash, stocks, bonds, and other equity or securities. A pledged asset is collateral held by a lender in return for lending funds. Pledged assets can reduce the down payment that is typically required for a loan as well as reduces the interest rate charged.





Key Takeaways

A pledged asset is a valuable asset that is transferred to a lender to secure a debt or loan. Pledged assets can reduce the down payment that is typically required for a loan.The asset may also provide a better interest rate or repayment terms for the loan. The borrower retains ownership of the assets and continues to earn interest or capital gains on those assets.


   How Pledged Assets Work  

The borrower will transfer a pledged asset to the lender, but the borrower still maintains ownership of the valuable possession. Should the borrower default, the lender has legal recourse to take ownership of the asset pledged. The borrower retains all dividends or other earnings from the asset during the time it is pledged.



The asset is merely collateral for the lender in the event of borrower default. However, for the borrower, the pledged asset could help considerably with gaining approval for the loan. Assets can include cash, stocks, bonds, and other equity or securities.



Using the asset to secure the note may let the borrower demand a lower interest rate on the note then they would have had with an unsecured loan. Typically, pledged-asset loans provide borrowers with better interest rates than unsecured loans.



Once the loan is paid off and the debt is fully satisfied, the lender transfers the pledged asset back to the borrower. The type and value of pledged assets for a loan are usually negotiated between the lender and borrower.


   Pledged-Asset Mortgage  

Homebuyers can sometimes pledge assets, such as securities, to lending institutions to reduce or eliminate the necessary down payment. With a traditional mortgage, the house itself is the collateral for the loan. However, banks usually require a 20% down payment of the value of the note, so that buyers do not end up owing more than their home's value.



Also, without the 20% down payment, the buyer must pay a monthly insurance payment for private mortgage insurance (PMI). Without a significant down payment, the borrower will likely also have a higher interest rate.






The pledged asset can be used to eliminate the down payment, avoid PMI payments, and secure a lower interest rate.



For example, let's say a borrower is looking to buy a $200,000 house, which requires a $20,000 down payment. If the borrower has $20,000 in stocks or investments, they can be pledged to the bank in exchange for the down payment.



The borrower retains ownership of the assets and continues to earn and report interest or capital gains on those assets. However, the bank would be able to seize the assets if the borrower defaulted on the mortgage. The borrower continues to earn capital appreciation on the pledged assets and gets a no-down-payment mortgage.


   Using Investments for a Pledged-Asset Mortgage  

A pledged-asset mortgage is recommended for borrowers that have the cash or investments available and don't want to sell their investments to pay for the down payment. Selling the investments might trigger tax obligations to the IRS. The sale may push the borrower's annual income to a higher tax bracket resulting in an increase in their taxes owed.



Typically, high-income borrowers are ideal candidates for pledged-asset mortgages. However, pledge assets can also be used for another family member to help with the down payment and mortgage approval.


   Qualifying for a Pledged-Asset Mortgage  

To qualify for a pledged-asset mortgage, the borrower usually needs to have investments that have a higher value than the amount of down payment. If a borrower pledges security and the value of the security decreases, the bank may require additional funds from the borrower to make up for the decline in the asset's value.



Although the borrower retains discretion as to how the pledged funds are invested, the bank may impose restrictions to ensure the pledged assets are not invested in financial instruments that are deemed risky by the bank. Such risky investments may include options or derivatives. Further, assets in an individual retirement account (IRA), 401(k), or other retirement accounts cannot be pledged as assets for a loan or mortgage.


   Pros and Cons of a Pledged-Asset Loan or Mortgage  

The use of pledged assets to secure a note has several advantages for the borrower. However, the lender will demand a specific type and quality of investments before they will consider underwriting the loan. Also, the borrower is limited to the actions they may take with the pledged securities. In dire situations, if the borrower defaults they will lose the pledged securities as well as the home they purchased.



The borrower must continue to report and pay taxes on any earnings they receive from the pledged assets. However, since they were not required to sell their portfolio holdings to make the down payment, it will not place them into a higher tax income bracket.





Pros

A pledged-asset loan allows the borrower to retain ownership of the valuable possession.
Borrower avoids tax penalties or capital gains taxes from selling the assets
Pledging assets avoids large loan down payments and PMI, if applicable.
The borrower may receive a lower interest rate on the loan or mortgage.
The borrower continues to earn income and must report the gains from their investments.



Cons

The ability to trade the pledged securities might be limited if the investments are stocks or mutual funds.
The borrower could lose both the home and the securities in the event of default.
By not making a down payment, loan interest is paid on the full price of the property.
If the pledged securities decline in value the lender may demand additional funds.
Pledging assets for the loans of a relative carries default risk since there is no control over the borrower's repayment.







Who Owns Pledged Collateral?
If you pledge your assets as collateral for a loan, you will still own the pledged collateral. If you fail to make payments according to the terms of the loan, the lender could seize the collateral and you would no longer own it at that time.




Can I Use a Car as Collateral for a Loan?
You can use a car as collateral for some personal loans. You must have equity in the car, or value that is paid off. If you have trouble getting a personal loan due to bad credit, you may consider using your card as collateral. However, if you cannot make the payments, the lender will be able to repossess your car to pay off the loan.




What are the Disadvantages of Pledged Asset Mortgage?
The main downside with a pledged asset mortgage is that you risk losing your asset as well as your home to the lender if you cannot make the mortgage payments according to your loan terms.


   The Bottom Line  

Pledged collateral can provide a number of benefits, but there are risks to consider as well. If you are considering using collateral for your mortgage, consider consulting a financial advisor who can guide you through the options and their impact on your financial situation.
What is the Plowback Ratio?  

The plowback ratio is a fundamental analysis ratio that measures how much earnings are retained after dividends are paid out. It is most often referred to as the retention ratio. The opposite metric, measuring how much in dividends are paid out as a percentage of earnings, is known as the payout ratio.


   The Formula for the Plowback Ratio Is  

The plowback ratio is calculated by subtracting the quotient of the annual dividends per share and earnings per share (EPS) from 1. On the other hand, it can be calculated by determining the leftover funds upon calculating the dividend payout ratio.



﻿﻿



\text{Retention Ratio}=\frac{\text{Net Income } -\text{ Dividends}}{\text{Net Income}}


Retention Ratio=Net IncomeNet Income − Dividends​﻿﻿﻿



On a per-share basis, the retention ratio can be expressed as:



﻿




1


−



Dividends per Share


EPS




1-\frac{\text{Dividends per Share}}{\text{EPS}}


1−EPSDividends per Share​﻿﻿



For example, a company that reports $10 of EPS and $2 per share of dividends will have a dividend payout ratio of 20% and a plowback ratio of 80%.


   What Does the Plowback Ratio Tell You?  

The plowback ratio is an indicator of how much profit is retained in a business rather than paid out to investors. Younger businesses tend to have higher plowback ratios. These faster-growing companies are more focused on business development. More mature businesses are not as reliant on reinvesting profit to expand operations. The ratio is 100% for companies that do not pay dividends, and is zero for companies that pay out their entire net income as dividends. 





Key Takeaways

The plowback ratio is a fundamental analysis ratio that measures how much earnings are retained after dividends are paid out - it is an indicator of how much profit is retained in a business rather than paid out to investors. Higher retention ratios indicate management’s belief of high growth periods and favorable business economic conditions. Lower plowback ratio computations indicate a wariness in future business growth opportunities or satisfaction in current cash holdings.It is most often referred to as the retention rate or ratio.The ratio is 100% for companies that do not pay dividends, and is zero for companies that pay out their entire net income as dividends. 



Use of the plowback ratio is most useful when comparing companies within the same industry. Different markets require different utilization of profits. For example, it is not uncommon for technology companies to have a plowback ratio of 1 (that is, 100%). This indicates that no dividends are issued, and all profits are retained for business growth.



The plowback ratio represents the portion of retained earnings that could potentially be dividends. Higher retention ratios indicate management’s belief of high growth periods and favorable business economic conditions. Lower plowback ratio computations indicate a wariness in future business growth opportunities or satisfaction in current cash holdings.


  Investor Preference  

The plowback ratio is a useful metric for determining what companies invest in. Investors preferring cash distributions avoid companies with high plowback ratios. However, companies with higher plowback ratios could have a greater chance of capital gains, achieved through appreciated stock prices during the growth of the organization. Investors see stable plowback ratio calculations as indicators of current stable decision-making that can help shape future expectations.



The ratio is typically higher for growth companies that are experiencing rapid increases in revenues and profits. A growth company would prefer to plow earnings back into its business if it believes that it can reward its shareholders by increasing revenues and profits at a faster pace than shareholders could achieve by investing their dividend receipts.


  Impact from Management  

Because management determines the dollar amount of dividends to issue, management directly impacts the plowback ratio. Alternatively, the calculation of the plowback ratio requires the use of EPS, which is influenced by a company’s choice of accounting method. Therefore, the plowback ratio is highly influenced by only a few variables within the organization.


   Example of the Plowback Ratio  

For example, on Nov. 29, 2017, The Walt Disney Company declared a $0.84 semi-annual cash dividend per share to shareholders of record Dec. 11, to be paid Jan. 11.﻿﻿ As of the fiscal year ended Sept, 30, 2017, the company's EPS was $5.73.﻿﻿ Its plowback (retention) ratio is, therefore, 1 - ($0.84 / $5.73) = 0.8534, or 85.34%.



The retention ratio is a converse concept to the dividend payout ratio. The dividend payout ratio evaluates the percentage of profits earned that a company pays out to its shareholders. It is calculated simply as dividends per share divided by earnings per share (EPS). Using the Disney example above, the payout ratio is $0.84/$5.73 = 14.66%. This is intuitive as you know that a company keeps any money that it doesn't pay out. Of its total net income of $8.98 billion, Disney will pay out 14.66% and retain 85.34%.﻿﻿
What Is the Plunge Protection Team?  

The "Plunge Protection Team" (PPT) is a colloquial name given to the Working Group on Financial Markets. Created in 1988 to provide financial and economic recommendations to the U.S. President during turbulent market times, this group is headed by the Secretary of the Treasury; other members include the Chair of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve, the Chair of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Chair of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (or the aides or officials they designate to represent them).



The name "Plunge Protection Team" was coined by The Washington Post and first applied to the group in 1997.





Key Takeaways

The "Plunge Protection Team" (PPT) is a colloquial name given to the Working Group on Financial Markets by The Wall Street Journal.The Plunge Protection Team's official mission is to advise the U.S. president during times of economic and stock market turbulence.Critics fear the Plunge Protection Team doesn't just advise, but actively intervenes to prop up stock prices—colluding with banks to rig the market, in effect.






The Plunge Protection Team, composed of high-ranking government financial officials, reports directly and privately to the president of the United States.


   How the Plunge Protection Team (PPT) Works  

In March 1988, in the wake of the stock market crash of 1987, then-President Ronald Reagan created by executive order the President’s Working Group on Financial Markets. The concept was to create an informed, but informal, advisory group on the markets for the president and regulators. Charged with "enhancing the integrity, efficiency, orderliness, and competitiveness of our Nation's financial markets and maintaining investor confidence."



Its original purpose was to report specifically on the Black Monday events of October 19, 1987—during that event, the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 22.6%—and, what actions, if any, should be taken. However, the group has continued to meet and report to various presidents over the years, usually (but not always) during turbulent times in the financial markets.



In 1999, it issued a recommendation to Congress, requesting changes in the derivatives markets regulations. It convened during the global credit crisis of 2008. The Plunge Protection Team's latest gathering (as of March 2019) was on Christmas Eve, 2018. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin chaired a conference call with other members of the group, in addition to representatives from the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.


   Concerns About the Plunge Protection Team (PPT)   

Though not exactly a secret, the Plunge Protection Team isn't widely covered and doesn't release the minutes of its meetings or its recommendations, reporting only to the president. This behavior leads some observers to wonder if the government's most important financial officials are doing more than analyzing and advising—in fact, that are actively intervening in the markets.



Conspiracy theorists have speculated that the group executes trades on several exchanges when prices are heading downward, collaborating with big banks such as Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley in unrecorded transactions. They often point to a 1989 speech published in The Wall Street Journal by former Federal Reserve Board of Governors member Robert Heller, which suggested the Fed could directly support the stock market by purchasing index futures contracts.


   How the Plunge Protection Team (PPT) Might Work  

On Monday, February 5, 2018, the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) experienced a drop that was twice as large as its biggest point decline in history. However, arbitrary and aggressive buying cut the decline in half in one day. On Tuesday and Wednesday of that week, stocks opened lower, and each time aggressive buying buoyed the markets. That aggressive buying, some say, was being orchestrated by the Plunge Protection Team.



Or, to take a more recent example: The Plunge Protection Team's aforementioned teleconference on Dec. 24, 2018. That whole month, the S&P 500 had been heading towards a record decline—the motive for the team's meeting—and the DJIA dropped 650 on the 24th alone. But when trading resumed after Christmas, the DJIA rallied over 1,000 points. On the 27th, it lost half those gains, until a late-day reversal stopped the slide, and caused the market to close 600 points up. That's no coincidence, conspiracy theorists argue.



If true, this sort of manipulation is not unlike the actions of consortia of private bankers and financiers in the late 19th and early 20th century who, during financial panics, would step in to shore up the stock market with massive purchases. The difference, of course, is that the Working Group on Financial Markets is composed of U.S. government officials, and the U.S. is supposed to operate on a free-market system. And also an open one, not one influenced by mysterious forces.
What Is a Point-and-Figure (P&F) Chart?  

A point-and-figure chart plots price movements for stocks, bonds, commodities, or futures without taking into consideration the passage of time.



Contrary to some other types of charts, like candlesticks, which mark the degree of an asset's movement over set time periods, P&F charts utilize columns consisting of stacked X's or O's, each of which represents a set amount of price movement. The X's illustrate rising prices, while O's represent a falling price.



Technical analysts still utilize concepts such as support and resistance, as well as other patterns, when viewing P&F charts. Some argue that support and resistance levels, as well as breakouts, are more clearly defined on a P&F chart since it filters out tiny price movements and is less susceptible to false breakouts.















TradingView.





Key Takeaways

An X is created when the price moves higher by a set amount, called the box size. An O is created when the price drops the box size amount.X's and O's stack on top of each other, respectively, and will often form a series of X's or O's.The box size is set based on the asset's price and the investor's preference.The formation of a new column of X's or O's occurs when the price moves contrary to its current trend, and does so by more than the reversal amount.


   How to Calculate Point-and-Figure (P&F) Charts  

Point-and-figure charts don't require calculation, but they do require at least two variables to be set.



One variable is the box size. The box size can be a specific dollar amount, such as $1, a percentage, such as 3% of the current price, or it can be based on average true range (ATR) which means the box size will fluctuate based on volatility.



The reversal amount also needs to be set. The reversal amount is typically three times the box size. For example, if the box size is $1, the reversal amount is $3. The reversal can be set at anything the trader desires, such as one times the box size, or 5.5 times the box size.



An optional variable is whether to use high and low prices for the underlying asset or to use closing prices. Using high and low prices will mean the creation of more X's and O's, while using only closing prices (less movement being calculated compared to high and lows) will mean fewer X's and O's are created.


   What Does a Point-and-Figure (P&F) Chart Tell You?  

Point-and-figure charts often provide technical analysts with different trade and trend signals, relative to traditional candlestick or bar charts. While some analysts rely more heavily on the point-and-figure charts, others use these charts to confirm signals provided by traditional charts in an effort to avoid false breakouts.



The key to point-and-figure charting is the box size, or the amount of price movement that determines whether a new X or O is added to the chart. For example, say the box size is $3. If the last X happened at a price of $15, a new one is added to the current column of X's when the price rises to $18.



Notably, the line of X's continues in the same column, provided that the price continues to rise and doesn’t breach a predetermined reversal amount, at which point, a new column of O's begins.



The same is true for a column of O's in a declining market; the column continues until the stock reaches the reversal amount, at which point a new column of X's begins.



A reversal occurs when the price is no longer moving enough to put another X or O in the current X or O column, and then the price moves at least three box sizes (if this is the chosen reversal amount) in the opposite direction. When a reversal occurs, several X's or O's will be drawn at the same time. For example, following a price rise or column of X's, if a reversal occurs and the reversal amount is three box sizes, when the reversal occurs three O's will be drawn starting one spot below the highest X.



Traders utilize P&F charts in similar ways to other charts. Traders still watch for support and resistance levels. Breakouts can signal major trend changes. Depending on the box size, the columns themselves can represent significant trends, and when the column changes (from O to X, or X to O) that may signal a significant trend reversal or pullback.


   Point-and-Figure Analysts  

Charles Dow, the founder of The Wall Street Journal, is credited with developing point-and-figure charting as a way to determine imbalances between supply and demand.﻿﻿



One of the foremost technical analysts specializing in point-and-figure charting is Tom Dorsey, who founded the research firm Dorsey, Wright & Associates in 1987. He authored several books on the topic, including Point & Figure Charting: The Essential Application for Forecasting and Tracking Market Prices. Nasdaq purchased Dorsey, Wright & Associates in 2015.﻿﻿



Dorsey helped to popularize the use of point-and-figure charts with more traditional technical indicators, such as moving averages, relative strength, and advance/decline lines.


   The Difference Between Point-and-Figure (P&F) and Renko Charts  

Renko Charts are also based on box size, and when the price moves by the box size it creates an up or down brick that moves at a 45-degree angle to the prior brick. Renko charts never have bricks next to each other. Therefore, a reversal occurs if the price moves in the opposite direction by two box amounts.



The main difference between the chart types is the look. P&F charts are side-by-side columns of X's and O's, while a renko chart is created by a series of boxes spread out over time at 45-degree angles.


   Limitations of Using Point-and-Figure (P&F) Charts  

P&F charts can be slow to react to price changes. A breakout, for example, must move the box amount in order to signal a breakout occurred. This may benefit some traders as it may reduce false breakout signals, but the price has already moved the box amount (or more) beyond the breakout point. For some traders, getting the signal after the price has already moved that much may not be effective.



Also, while P&F charts may help reduce the number of false breakouts, false breakouts still occur. What appears to be a breakout may still be reversed a short time later.



P&F charts are good at keeping traders in strong trends, as a lot of small counter-trend movements are filtered out. Yet when a reversal occurs it can significantly erase profits or result in big losses. Because the reversal amount is typically so large, if a trader is only using P&F charts they won't see the reversal until the price has moved significantly against them.



When using P&F charts, it is recommended to also watch the actual price of the asset so that risk can be monitored in real time. This can be done by monitoring a candlestick or open-high-low-close (OHLC) chart.
What Is a Point of Purchase (POP)?  

A point of purchase (POP) is a term used by marketers and retailers when planning the placement of consumer products, such as product displays strategically placed in a grocery store aisle or advertised in a weekly flyer. Similar to this term is the point of sale (POS), which is the point at which a customer purchases and pays for products, such as on a website or at a store checkout. The POP is the area that surrounds the POS, where customers often encounter promotional activities or other products.





Key Takeaways

The point of purchase (POP) is the area in which marketers and retailers plan promotional activities surrounding the consumer products.POPs may be real, as in the case of a brick and mortar store, or virtual, as in the case of an electronic retailer that sells goods and services online. To stay competitive and aid brand owners in promoting their products, POP display manufacturers are focused on improving aesthetics, as well as creating innovative product designs.The global POP displays market is expected to expand at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 5.9% from 2018 to 2026.﻿﻿


   Understanding Point of Purchase  

In recent years, the point of purchase for products and services has been an area of focus for marketers. POPs may be real, as in the case of a brick and mortar store, or virtual, as in the case of an electronic retailer that sells goods and services online. In both cases, marketers and retailers must determine the best way to showcase their products and services.



At the point of sale, the merchant typically creates an invoice or sales order. After receiving payment, the seller generates a receipt for the customer. Merchants traditionally printed receipts; however, now many are delivered electronically.


   POS Systems  

Part of the point of purchase takes into account POS systems and experiences as well. POS systems frequently use hardware or software tailored to a particular industry or business. Although some small retailers use off-the-shelf cash registers to calculate payment amounts and issue receipts, most POS systems are computer-based, digital, and incorporate other devices or peripherals such as printers, bar code scanners, scales, and touch screens. In some cases, customers perform the duties that were previously performed only by checkout clerks such as scanning bar codes, weighing items that are sold by weight, operating POS terminals by tapping their fingers against touch screens and making payments by swiping their credit cards or inserting cash into machines.



Also, retailers use POS software for accounting, warehousing, and management functions such as to track inventory and revenue. The software may be used to manage inventory, alerting warehouses when shelves run low, or create purchase orders and automatically send them to suppliers. POS software may assist management in deterring theft and employee fraud. It may be integrated with a business's accounting system to enter the day's sales directly into the company's books.


   POS Innovation  

Modern POS systems are commonly programmable or allow enhancement with third-party software programs. These systems can be tailored to meet specific needs. For example, many retailers use POS systems to manage membership programs that award points to frequent buyers and issue discounts on future purchases.



Cloud-based POS systems are increasingly in use, particularly for large online merchants, to track and process numerous purchases. Cloud-based systems can greatly reduce the upfront costs of implementing a POS system for many businesses. 



Customers can also interact directly with POS systems, particularly in the hospitality industry. Often referred to as location-based technology, these systems can process transactions at customer locations. For example, at many restaurants, customers can view menus and place orders on terminals located at their table. In hotels, customers use similar terminals to place orders for room service or to pay hotel bills.


   Real-World Example  

According to the Global Point of Purchase (POP) Displays Markets Report, the global point of purchase displays market is expected to expand at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 5.9% from 2018 to 2026. Although online shopping appears to be a popular shopping option, customer preference for in-store shopping remains strong.﻿﻿



To stay competitive and aid brand owners in promoting their products, POP display manufacturers are focused on improving aesthetics, as well as creating innovative product designs. Also, the intensifying competition in the retail industry and resulting use of POP displays for enticing customers to purchase products have encouraged retailers to demand different custom-made displays capable of serving specific needs across different retail facilities. Customization offered in terms of aesthetics, capacity, and mobility can greatly impact a company's brand identification.
What Is a POS?  

A POS or point of sale is a device that is used to process transactions by retail customers. A cash register is a type of POS. The cash register has largely been replaced by electronic POS terminals that can be used to process credit cards and debit cards as well as cash.



A POS may be a physical device in a brick-and-mortar store or a checkout point in a web-based store.



The software for POS devices is growing increasingly elaborate, with features that allow retailers to monitor inventory and buying trends, track pricing accuracy, and collect marketing data,





Key Takeaways

A point of sale (POS) is a place where a customer executes the payment for goods or services and where sales taxes may become payable.A POS transaction may occur in person or online, with receipts generated either in print or electronically. Cloud-based POS systems are becoming increasingly popular among merchants.POS systems are increasingly interactive, particularly in the hospitality industry, and allow customers to place orders and reservations and pay bills electronically.


   Understanding POS  

Points of sale (POSs) are an important focus for marketers because consumers tend to make purchasing decisions on high-margin products or services at these strategic locations. Traditionally, businesses set up POSs near store exits to increase the rate of impulse purchases as customers leave. However, varying POS locations can give retailers more opportunities to micro-market specific product categories and influence consumers at earlier points in the sales funnel.



For example, department stores often have POSs for individual product groups, such as appliances, electronics, and apparel. The designated staff can actively promote products and guide consumers through purchase decisions rather than simply processing transactions. Similarly, the format of a POS can affect profit or buying behavior, as this gives consumers flexible options for making a purchase.



Amazon’s concept convenience store, Amazon Go, which deploys technologies that let shoppers come in, grab items, and walk out without going through a register, could revolutionize POS systems. Besides increasing convenience, this could enable POSs, loyalty, and payments to be rolled into a single customer-centric experience.


   Benefits of POS Systems  

Electronic POS software systems streamline retail operations by automating the transaction process and tracking important sales data. Basic systems include an electronic cash register and software to coordinate data collected from daily purchases. Retailers can increase functionality by installing a network of data-capture devices, including card readers and barcode scanners.



Depending on the software features, retailers can track pricing accuracy, inventory changes, gross revenue, and sales patterns. Using integrated technology to track data helps retailers catch discrepancies in pricing or cash flow that could lead to profit loss or interrupt sales. POS systems that monitor inventory and buying trends can help retailers avoid customer service issues, such as out-of-stock sales, and tailor purchasing and marketing to consumer behavior.


   Special Considerations: POS Innovation  

Modern POS systems are commonly programmable or allow enhancement with third-party software programs. These systems can be tailored to meet specific needs. For example, many retailers use POS systems to manage membership programs that award points to frequent buyers and issue discounts on future purchases.



Cloud-based POS systems are increasingly in use, particularly for large online merchants, to track and process numerous purchases. Cloud-based systems can greatly reduce the upfront costs of implementing a POS system for many businesses.



Customers can also interact directly with POS systems, particularly in the hospitality industry. Often referred to as location-based technology, these systems can process transactions at customer locations. For example, at many restaurants, customers can view menus and place orders on terminals located at their table. In hotels, customers use similar terminals to place orders for room service or to pay hotel bills.



To stay competitive and aid brand owners in promoting their products, POS display manufacturers are focused on improving aesthetics and creating innovative product designs. Also, the intensifying competition in the retail industry and resulting use of POS displays for enticing customers to purchase products have encouraged retailers to demand different custom-made displays capable of serving specific needs across different retail facilities. Customization offered in terms of aesthetics, capacity, and mobility can greatly impact a company's brand identification.
What Is a Poison Pill?  

A poison pill is a defense strategy used by the directors of a public company to prevent activist investors, competitors, or other would-be acquirers from taking control of the company. Poison pills are executed by buying up large amounts of its stock. They effectively block the accumulation of a company's outstanding shares.



Companies promise to distribute additional free or heavily discounted shares to all existing shareholders, which dilutes the shares so outsiders can't take over the company by purchasing a controlling amount of shares.



Another goal is to force the entity trying to acquire the company to negotiate with the company's board for a buyout price. Courts have upheld poison pills as a legitimate defense by corporate boards, which are not obligated to accept any offer they do not deem to be in the company's long-term interest.





Key Takeaways

A poison pill is a defense tactic to deter activist investors or acquirers from amassing enough shares to take control or staging a takeover without the board's consent.Poison pills specify the maximum stake a shareholder may amass and dilute the holdings of all shareholders in an attempt to discourage acquirers from gaining a controlling interest.Because poison pills can entrench company managers and boards, companies must show they are a proportional response to a credible threat. Investors who can't convince a company to drop its poison pill have the option of persuading shareholders to replace the board.












Theresa Chiechi / Investopedia 


   How Poison Pills Work  

The poison pill is a tactic companies use to deter takeovers by unwanted companies. Often called a shareholder rights plan, it is meant to frustrate creeping acquisitions of control, in which the acquirer seeks to accumulate a controlling or dominant stake piecemeal without negotiating with the board or offering the same deal to every shareholder.



When a company uses a poison pill, it decides on the possible stake of one person or entity. Because many shares come with ownership and voting rights, it is possible to own enough of them to purchase what's called a controlling interest. So if one entity owns the right amount of shares, they have the biggest stake in the company. If they have voting rights, their votes weigh more than those with fewer shares.



To prevent this, the potential target can create a poison pill provision to prevent hostile takeovers by establishing an ownership limit. For instance, it may establish this provision if it notices another entity accumulating too many shares. This provision may specify that if a single entity or person acquires a stake of 15% or more, the company will implement a share issuance. At that time, all other shareholders become eligible to acquire additional shares for a large discount or for free.



The party with the 15% stake is excluded from the stock issuance. This basically doubles the number of outstanding shares (or comes close to doubling it) and cuts that party's stake in half, averting the takeover.






While takeovers are still commonplace, hostile takeovers are not as common as they used to be because of tools like poison pills.


   Special Considerations  

Proxy advisory firms Glass Lewis and International Shareholder Services traditionally opposed poison pills because of their potential to entrench managers unresponsive to shareholders.



As of 2022, ISS guidelines called for poison pills to have a term of no more than three years and a trigger no lower than 20% of shares outstanding. Glass Lewis generally opposes poison pills, with case-by-case exceptions for those limited in scope and motivated by a particular threat or objective.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Poison Pill  
  Advantages  

A company's board has a fiduciary duty to protect the interests of all shareholders, while an outsider seeking control may only wish or need to satisfy a minority to gain effective control through a tender offer. A poison pill helps prevent majority control takeovers that disregard the interests of minority shareholders.



It also discourages vulture bids seeking to take advantage of a temporary decline in a share price. Market declines at the outset of the COVID-19 pandemic led hundreds of U.S. companies to adopt shareholder rights plans for that reason.



Companies with poison pill defenses have tended to garner higher takeover premiums than those without them. Industrial gasses supplier Airgas, which deployed a poison pill to resist a hostile takeover by rival Air Products and Chemicals (APD) in a landmark legal battle, sold four years later to Air Liquide for more than twice as much as Air Products offered.


  Disadvantages  

By discouraging a motivated buyer from buying more company stock, a poison pill is likely to leave a share price lower than it would be otherwise, at least in the short run.



Poison pills can also shield underperforming board members from shareholder efforts to replace them. The good news on that score is that replacing a company board in a proxy contest can make a poison pill go away if the new board chooses to do so.



Because poison pills discriminate against activist buyers and restrain trading in a company's stock, they typically require justification and often have sunset provisions. A sunset provision is a clause that expires automatically at a certain date.





Pros

Prevents majority control takeovers that don't consider minority shareholder interests
Discourages vulture bids that want to benefit from temporary share price declines
Come with higher takeover premiums than those without them



Cons

Leaves share price lower
Shields underperforming board members from efforts to replace them
Requires justification
Comes with sunset provisions





   Types of Poison Pills  

Most poison pills are triggered by the accumulation of a company stake above a preset threshold. These are known as flip-in shareholder rights plans, in contrast to the seldom-used flip-over ones. This type of poison pill is just like a reverse takeover. It occurs when a company allows itself to be acquired by another public company, and then lets shareholders buy shares of the acquirer at a discount.



A dead-hand or slow-hand poison pill limits a future board's ability to remove that provision by specifying that the poison pill can only be canceled by a board majority consisting of current directors or the successors they choose. Delaware, the corporate domicile state of two-thirds of Fortune 500 companies and most recent initial public offerings, bars dead-hand poison pills, while Georgia and Pennsylvania courts have upheld them.






Poison pills often include wolf pack clauses applicable to the aggregate holdings of shareholders acting in concert without expressly agreeing to do so. For example, hedge fund managers commonly accumulate separate stakes in companies in pursuit of a common activist agenda without communicating the intent.


   Examples of Poison Pills  

The poison pill tactic has been around since the 1980s when it was devised by New York law firm Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen, and Katz amid a wave of hostile takeover and greenmail attempts by corporate raiders since rebranded as activist investors. Courts have ruled that poison pills are a legitimate defense against such attempts to circumvent a company board's prerogatives.


  X (Formerly Twitter)  

In early April 2022, Elon Musk threatened social media giant X with a hostile takeover by disclosing that he purchased 9% of the company's shares.



X adopted a poison pill provision to prevent the takeover in mid-April 2022. It used 15% as its ownership threshold, which prevented anyone from taking over the company without bargaining for a fair value. By the end of April, the company agreed to a buyout by Elon Musk.



Musk ended up purchasing the company in October 2022 for $44 billion.


  Papa John's  

In July 2018, the board of restaurant chain Papa John’s (PZZA) voted to adopt a poison pill to prevent ousted founder John Schnatter from gaining control of the company. Schnatter, who owned 30% of the company’s stock, was the company's largest shareholder.



To deter a takeover attempt by Schnatter, the board adopted a poison pill expiring after a year that would permit the company to sell its stock to shareholders for half its market price if Schnatter and his affiliates increased their stake to 31%, or if anyone else amassed a 15% stake. As with all poison pills, those triggering the provision would not be allowed to buy stock on the same discounted terms, effectively diluting their stake.



When announcing the poison pill's adoption, the company stated,



"Adoption of the Rights Plan is intended to enable all Papa John’s stockholders to realize the full potential value of their investment in the company and to protect the interests of the company and its stockholders by reducing the likelihood that any person or group gains control of Papa John’s through open market accumulation or other tactics without paying an appropriate control premium."



Schnatter filed suit over some of the poison pill's provisions, settling it the following year along with other litigation against the company. He reduced his stake to less than 4% by 2020.


  Netflix  

In 2012, Netflix (NFLX) announced a poison pill days after billionaire investor Carl Icahn and affiliates disclosed a stake of nearly 10%. The poison pill promised to dilute the stake of anyone acquiring more than 10% of the video streaming service provider by allowing other shareholders to purchase two shares for the price of one.



In disclosing their stake, Icahn affiliates suggested "Netflix may hold significant strategic value for a variety of significantly larger companies," adding they were "considering ways for [Netflix] to maximize shareholder value."



The Icahn funds criticized the company's adoption of a poison pill in an updated securities filing. Any "poison pill without a shareholder vote is an example of poor corporate governance, and...the pill Netflix just adopted is particularly troubling due to its remarkably low and discriminatory 10% threshold," they said.



Icahn's stake was later reduced, and eventually, it was sold for a hefty gain.




Why Are Poison Pills Used?
Poison pills prevent an activist investor or a potential acquirer from gaining control of a publicly traded company without the consent of the company's board. Deals involving the board's consent to a change of control typically provide a significant premium over the market price for all shareholders, in contrast to the share purchases in market transactions the poison pills seek to deter.




What Are the Disadvantages of Poison Pills?
Poison pills can help self-serving incumbent managers and boards frustrate shareholder efforts to oust them to improve the company's performance. As a result, corporate governance advisors recommend companies limit their scope and duration, ensure that such plans address a specific goal or threat, and have a high triggering threshold.




What's the Legal Precedent for Poison Pills?
In Delaware, where many large, listed companies are incorporated, the courts have held corporate boards have broad discretion in preventing the accumulation of controlling stakes, provided their response is proportional and based on a reasonable perception of a threat.


   The Bottom Line  

Poison pills are provisions companies include in their stock issuances that prevent anyone from gaining a controlling stake. They usually have share ownership thresholds set that trigger the issue of more shares to stockholders for a discount or for free. Thus, poison pills reduce a would-be acquirer's stake in a company, forcing them to negotiate with the board for ownership rather than forcing their way in through stock ownership.
What Is a Poisson Distribution?  

In statistics, a Poisson distribution is a probability distribution that is used to show how many times an event is likely to occur over a specified period. In other words, it is a count distribution. Poisson distributions are often used to understand independent events that occur at a constant rate within a given interval of time. It was named after French mathematician Siméon Denis Poisson.



The Poisson distribution is a discrete function, meaning that the variable can only take specific values in a (potentially infinite) list. Put differently, the variable cannot take all values in any continuous range. For the Poisson distribution, the variable can only take whole number values (0, 1, 2, 3, etc.), with no fractions or decimals.





Key Takeaways

A Poisson distribution, named after French mathematician Siméon Denis Poisson, can be used to estimate how many times an event is likely to occur within "X" periods of time.Poisson distributions are used when the variable of interest is a discrete count variable.Many economic and financial data appear as count variables, such as how many times a person becomes unemployed in a given year, thus lending themselves to analysis with a Poisson distribution.


   Understanding Poisson Distributions  

A Poisson distribution can be used to estimate how likely it is that something will happen "X" number of times. For example, if the average number of people who buy cheeseburgers from a fast-food chain on a Friday night at a single restaurant location is 200, a Poisson distribution can answer questions such as, "What is the probability that more than 300 people will buy burgers?" The application of the Poisson distribution thereby enables managers to introduce optimal scheduling systems that would not work with, say, a normal distribution.



One of the most famous historical, practical uses of the Poisson distribution was estimating the annual number of Prussian cavalry soldiers killed due to horse-kicks. Modern examples include estimating the number of car crashes in a city of a given size; in physiology, this distribution is often used to calculate the probabilistic frequencies of different types of neurotransmitter secretions. Or, if a video store averaged 400 customers every Friday night, what would have been the probability that 600 customers would come in on any given Friday night?


   The Formula for the Poisson Distribution Is  













Poisson Distribution Formula.
C.K.Taylor



Where:



e is Euler's number (e = 2.71828...)
x is the number of occurrences
x! is the factorial of x
λ is equal to the expected value (EV) of x when that is also equal to its variance



Given data that follows a Poisson distribution, it appears graphically as:















Poisson Distribution Example.
Investopedia



In the example depicted in the graph above, assume that some operational process has an error rate of 3%. If we further assume 100 random trials, the Poisson distribution describes the likelihood of getting a certain number of errors over some period of time, such as a single day.






If the mean is very large, then the Poisson distribution is approximately a normal distribution.


   The Poisson Distribution in Finance  

The Poisson distribution is also commonly used to model financial count data where the tally is small and is often zero. As one example in finance, it can be used to model the number of trades that a typical investor will make in a given day, which can be 0 (often), or 1, or 2, etc.



As another example, this model can be used to predict the number of "shocks" to the market that will occur in a given time period, say, over a decade.




When Should the Poisson Distribution Be Used?
The Poisson distribution is best applied to statistical analysis when the variable in question is a count variable. For instance, how many times X occurs based on one or more explanatory variables. For instance, to estimate how many defective products will come off an assembly line given different inputs.




What Assumptions Does the Poisson Distribution Make?
In order for the Poisson distribution to be accurate, all events are independent of each other, the rate of events through time is constant, and events cannot occur simultaneously. Moreover, the mean and the variance will be equal to one another.




Is the Poisson Distribution Discrete or Continuous?
Because it measures discrete counts, the Poisson distribution is also a discrete distribution. This can be contrasted with the normal distribution, which is continuous.
What Is a Political Action Committee (PAC)?  

In the U.S., a political action committee (PAC) is a political committee that pools campaign contributions from members and donates those funds to campaigns for or against candidates, ballot initiatives, or legislation. PACs are typically formed to represent business, labor, or ideological interests by individuals who wish to privately raise money to donate to a political campaign.



The first PAC was formed in 1944 in order to raise money for the re-election of then-President Franklin D. Roosevelt.





Key Takeaways

In the U.S., a political action committee (PAC) is a political committee that pools campaign contributions from members and donates those funds to campaigns for or against candidates, ballot initiatives, or legislation.Political Action Committees (PACs) are typically formed to represent business, labor, or ideological interests.The first PAC was formed in 1944 in order to raise money for the re-election of then-President Franklin D. Roosevelt.


   How a Political Action Committee Works  

At the federal level, an organization is considered a PAC when it receives or spends more than $1,000 for the purpose of influencing a federal election.



There are many types of restrictions that guide how PACs are able to fundraise for and donate their contributions to political campaigns and/or causes. They can contribute $5,000 to a candidate committee per election (primary, general, or special). They can also give up to $15,000 annually to any national party committee, and $5,000 annually to any other PAC. PACs may receive up to $5,000 from any one individual, PAC, or party committee per calendar year.﻿﻿



A PAC must register with the U.S. Federal Election Committee within 10 days of its formation, and it must provide the name and address for the PAC, its treasurer, and any affiliated organizations. For the purpose of contribution limits, all affiliated PACs are treated as one donor.



PACs are also required to disclose information about all individuals who contribute to them. However, sometimes these names are not disclosed until after the election (when votes have already been cast).


   Types of Political Action Committees (PACs)  

There are many categories of PACs, including separate segregated funds (SSFs), nonconnected committees, Super PACs, and Leadership PACs.


  Separate Segregated Funds (SSFs)  

Corporations, labor unions, membership organizations, or trade associations can establish separate segregated funds (SSFs). Once established, these committees can only receive contributions from individuals that are associated with that connected or sponsoring organization.


  Nonconnected Committees  

Unlike SSFs, nonconnected committees are not sponsored by a specific entity or organization. As a result, they can accept contributions from the general public.


  Super PACs  

Super PACs can receive unlimited contributions from individuals, corporations, labor unions, and other PACs.


  Hybrid PACs  

A hybid PAC can act as both a PAC and a Super PAC. Hybrid PACs must maintain segregated bank accounts for their unlimited Super PAC activities and their normal PAC fundraising and contributions, which are subject to the same statutory limitations as a regular PAC.﻿﻿


  Leadership PACs  

A leadership PAC is a PAC that is established by a candidate or an individual holding federal office. It is common for members of Congress and other political leaders to establish leadership PACs in order to support candidates for various elected offices. Leadership PACs can only contribute up to $5,000 per election to a federal candidate committee.


   PACs vs. Super PACs  

Super PACs were created in 2010 after the U.S. Court of Appeals' decision in SpeechNow.org v. Federal Election Committee. This decision allowed for a greater level of deregulation as to how political funds are raised and distributed. While Super PAC funds cannot be donated directly to a campaign, Super PAC managers and political candidates are permitted to collaborate and discuss strategy.



Since the inception of Super PACs, they have quickly grown to be a hugely influential force in American politics. In fact, it is estimated that during the 2012 Republican primaries, Super PACs spent more money during the election cycle than the individual candidates' campaigns did.﻿﻿ The majority of this money was donated by individuals rather than businesses.


   Special Considerations  

Corporations cannot contribute directly to a campaign; however, a 2010 Supreme Court decision–Citizens United v. Federal Election Committee–made it legal for corporations to support a PAC. The decision overruled the 2002 Campaign Reform Act, which prevented corporations, unions, and other entities from donating money to political campaigns. 



The new laws allow these entities to contribute a limited amount of money to a PAC, which can, in turn, be donated to a campaign. In the case of Super PACs, a corporation can contribute an unlimited amount of money. Even though this money can't be directly given to a campaign, it can be spent to indirectly influence an election.
What Is Political Economy?  

Political economy is an interdisciplinary branch of the social sciences. It focuses on the interrelationships of individuals, governments, and public policy.



Political economists study how economic theories such as capitalism, socialism, and communism work in the real world. Any economic theory is a means of directing the distribution of a finite amount of resources in a way that benefits the greatest number of individuals.



These ideas can be studied both theoretically and as they are actually used. Public policy that is created and implemented derive from these economic theories. Political economists study both the underlying roots of these policies and their results.





Key Takeaways

The field of political economy involves the study of how economic theories such as capitalism or communism play out in the real world.As political parties come to and leave power, economic policy often changes due to the ideology and goals of the party in power.Those who study political economy seek to understand how history, culture, and customs impact an economic system, and vice versa.Global political economy studies how political forces shape global economic interactions.The rise of globalism and global trade means that political economy of one country can impact both the economy and the politics of others.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   Understanding Political Economy  

Political economy is a branch of social science that studies the relationship that forms between a nation's population and its government when public policy is enacted. It is, therefore, the result of the interaction between politics and the economy and is the basis of the social science discipline.



Those who research the political economy are called political economists. Their study generally involves the examination through a sociological, political, and economic lens of how public policy, the political situation, and political institutions impact a country's economic standing and future.



In a wider sense, political economy was once the common term used for the field we now call economics. Adam Smith, John Stuart Mill, and Jean-Jacques Rousseau all used the term to describe their theories. The shorter term "economy" was substituted in the early 20th century with the development of more rigorous statistical methods for analyzing economic factors.


   Types of Political Economy  

There are several notable types of political economies:



Socialism: This type of political economy promotes the idea that the production and distribution of goods and wealth are maintained and regulated by society, rather than a particular group of people. The rationale behind this is that whatever is produced by society is done so because of those who participate, regardless of status, wealth, or position. Socialism aims to bridge the gap between rich and poor, eliminating the ability of individuals or groups to control the majority of power and wealth.
Capitalism: This theory advocates profit as a motive for advancement and the ability of free markets to regulate and drive the economy on their own. The idea behind capitalism is that private individuals and entities are driven by their own interests—they control production and distribution, set prices, and create supply and demand.
Communism: Individuals often confuse communism with socialism, but there is a distinct difference between these two theories. Communism was a theory developed by Karl Marx, who felt that capitalism was limited and created a big divide between rich and poor. He believed in shared resources, including property. Unlike socialism, however, under communism production and distribution are overseen by the government.






Political economy may draw upon sociology, economics, and political science to define how government, an economic system, and politics influence each other.


   History and Development of Political Economy  

The roots of political economy as we know it today go back to the 18th century. Scholars during the period studied how wealth was distributed and administered between people. Some of the earlier works that examined this phenomenon include those by Adam Smith and John Stuart Mill.


  Antoine de Montchrestien  

But the term is probably best ascribed to the French writer and economist, Antoine de Montchrestien. He wrote a book called Traité de l'économie politique in 1615, in which he examined the need for production and wealth to be distributed on an entirely larger scale—not in the household as Aristotle suggested. The book also analyzed how economics and politics are interrelated.


  Adam Smith  

Smith was a Scottish philosopher, economist, and writer who is commonly referred to as the father of economics and of the political economy. He wrote about the function of a self-regulating free market in his first book, which was called The Theory of Moral Sentiments. His most famous work, An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations (or The Wealth of Nations) helped shape classical economic theory. It was considered the foundation for the field of study by future economists.


  John Stuart Mill  

The Englishman Mill combined economics with philosophy. He believed in utilitarianism—that actions that lead to people's goodwill are right and that those that lead to suffering are wrong. In essence, he believed that economic theory and philosophy were needed, along with social awareness in politics, to make better decisions for the good of the people. Some of his work, including Principles of Political Economy, Utilitarianism, and A System of Logic made him one of the most important figures in politics and economics.


   Importance of Political Economy  

Political economy studies both how the economy affects politics and how politics affect the economy. As political parties come to and leave power, economic policy often changes in a country in accordance with the ideology and goals of the party in power.



Political changes can impact many areas of the economy, which can in turn impact elections and government policies. These areas include:



Monetary and fiscal policyFood securityGlobal tradeLabor supply, demand, and crisesGross domestic product (GDP)Financial inequalityDisaster managementEnvironmental stability



As the economies of more countries become interconnected through globalism and international trade, the politics of one country can have a strong impact on the economy of another. Understanding the relationship between political power and economic decisions in one country can help other countries predict how their own economies will be impacted.



Understanding political economy can also help a country's economy become more resilient. If the government leaders in power at any given moment are forward-thinking, they can try to put laws and policies in place that create the greatest possibility for economic stability and growth, regardless of changing political power.






Political economy is still a widely used term that describes any government policy that has an economic impact.


   Political Economy in Academia  

Political economy has become an academic discipline of its own. Many major institutions offer the study as part of their political science, economics, and/or sociology departments.



Political economists conduct research to determine how public policy influences behavior, productivity, and trade. This work helps them establish how money and power are distributed between people and different groups. They may study specific fields such as law, bureaucratic politics, legislative behavior, the intersection of government and business, and regulation.



The study may be approached in any of three ways:



Interdisciplinary studies: The interdisciplinary approach draws on sociology, economics, and political science to define how government institutions, an economic system, and a political environment affect and influence each other.New political economy: This approach studies actions and beliefs, and seeks to make explicit assumptions that lead to political debates about societal preferences. The new political economy combines the ideals of classical political economists and newer analytical advances in economics and politics.International political economy: Also called global political economy, which is slightly different, this approach analyzes the link between economics and international relations. It draws from many academic areas including political science, economics, sociology, cultural studies, and history. The international political economy concerns how political forces like states, individuals, and institutions affect global economic interactions.


   Modern Applications of Political Economy  

Modern applications of the political economy involve the study of later philosophers and economists, such as Karl Marx.



As mentioned above, Marx became disenchanted with capitalism as a whole. He believed that individuals suffered under regimented social classes, where one or more individuals controlled the greater proportion of wealth.



Under communist theories, this would be eradicated, allowing everyone to live equally while the economy functions based on the ability and needs of each participant. Under communist regimes, resources are controlled and distributed by the government.


  Socialism vs. Communism  

Many people confuse socialism and communism. It's true there are some similarities—notably, that both stress bridging the gap between rich and poor, and that society should relegate equilibrium among all citizens.



But there are inherent differences between the two. While resources in a communist society are owned and controlled by the government, individuals in a socialist society hold property. People can still purchase goods and services under socialism, while those who live in a communist society are provided with their basic necessities by the government.




What Does Political Economy Mean?
The term "political economy" refers to a branch of social sciences that focuses on relationships between individuals, governments, and public policy. It is also used to describe the policies set by governments that affect their nations' economies.




What Is the Primary Concern of Political Economy?
The main concerns of political economy are the relationship between governments and individuals, and how public policy affects society. These are determined through the study of sociology, politics, and economics.




What Are the Characteristics of Political Economy?
Some of the characteristics or themes of a political economy include the distribution of wealth, how goods and services are produced, who owns property and other resources, who profits from production, supply and demand, and how public policy and government interaction impact society.




Who Coined the Term "Political Economy"?
Adam Smith is generally considered the father of economics and of the political economy. But the term is generally ascribed to French economist Antoine de Montchrestien, who wrote the book Traité de l'économie politique, which translates to the treaty of the political economy.


   The Bottom Line  

Political economy is a branch of the social sciences that studies the relationships between individuals, governments, and public policy. It examines how the realm of politics impacts the economy and how the economy impacts politics.



As political parties change, a country's economic policy often changes as well, based on the ideology and goals of the party in power. This can impact areas of the economy such as monetary and fiscal policy, food security, labor crises, rising inequality, GDP, and disaster management. These changes in the economy can in turn prompt new political laws, policies, or election outcomes.



The rise of globalism and international trade means that the politics of one country can have a strong impact on the economy of another. Understanding political economy can help countries become more resilient in the face of global economic changes.
What is Political Risk  

Political risk is the risk an investment's returns could suffer as a result of political changes or instability in a country. Instability affecting investment returns could stem from a change in government, legislative bodies, other foreign policymakers or military control. Political risk is also known as "geopolitical risk," and becomes more of a factor as the time horizon of investment gets longer. They are considered a type of jurisdiction risk.


   BREAKING DOWN Political Risk  

Political risks are notoriously hard to quantify because there are limited sample sizes or case studies when discussing an individual nation. Some political risks can be insured against through international agencies or other government bodies. The outcome of political risk could drag down investment returns or even go so far as to remove the ability to withdraw capital from an investment.


   Types of Political Risks  

Aside from business factors arising from the marketplace, businesses are also impacted by political decisions. There are a variety of decisions governments make that can affect individual businesses, industries, and the overall economy. These include taxes, spending, regulation, currency valuation, trade tariffs, labor laws such as the minimum wage, and environmental regulations. The laws, even if just proposed, can have an impact. Regulations can be set at all levels of government, including federal, state and local, as well as in other countries.



Some of the political risks may be found in a company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or a prospectus if it is a mutual fund.


   Insuring Against Political Risks  

Companies that operate internationally, known as multinational businesses, can purchase political risk insurance to remove or mitigate certain political risks. This allows management and investors to concentrate on the business fundamentals while knowing losses from political risks are avoided or limited. Typical actions covered include war and terrorism.


   An Example  

Wal-Mart Stores Inc. outlined certain political risks it faces in its fiscal 2015 10-K filing with the SEC under its operating risk section. In its risks associated with suppliers, Wal-Mart mentioned potential political and economic instability in the countries that foreign suppliers operate, labor problems, and foreign trade policies and tariffs that could be imposed.



In its regulatory, compliance, reputational and other risks section, the company outlines risk associated with legislative, judicial, regulatory and political/economic risks. Risk factors mentioned include political instability, legal and regulatory constraints, local product safety and environmental laws, tax regulations, local labor laws, trade policies, and currency regulations. Wal-Mart mentioned Brazil specifically, and the complexity of its federal, state and local laws.
What Is a Ponzi Scheme?  

A Ponzi scheme is a fraudulent investing scam promising high rates of return with little risk to investors. A Ponzi scheme is a fraudulent investing scam which generates returns for earlier investors with money taken from later investors. This is similar to a pyramid scheme in that both are based on using new investors' funds to pay the earlier backers.



Both Ponzi schemes and pyramid schemes eventually bottom out when the flood of new investors dries up and there isn't enough money to go around. At that point, the schemes unravel.





Key Takeaways

The Ponzi scheme generates returns for older investors by acquiring new investors, who are promised a large profit at little to no risk.The fraudulent investment scheme is premised on using new investors' funds to pay the earlier backers.Companies that engage in a Ponzi scheme focus their energy into attracting new clients to make investments, otherwise their scheme will become illiquid.The SEC has issued guidance on what to look for in potential Ponzi schemes including guarantee of returns or unregistered investment vehicles with the SEC.The largest Ponzi scheme was carried out by Bernie Madoff, conning thousands of investors out of billions of dollars.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding Ponzi Schemes  

A Ponzi scheme is an investment fraud in which clients are promised a large profit at little to no risk. Companies that engage in a Ponzi scheme focus all of their energy into attracting new clients to make investments.



This new income is used to pay original investors their returns, marked as a profit from a legitimate transaction. Ponzi schemes rely on a constant flow of new investments to continue to provide returns to older investors. When this flow runs out, the scheme falls apart.


   Origins of the Ponzi Scheme  

The term "Ponzi Scheme" was coined after a swindler named Charles Ponzi in 1920. However, the first recorded instances of this sort of investment scam can be traced back to the mid-to-late 1800s, and were orchestrated by Adele Spitzeder in Germany and Sarah Howe in the United States. In fact, the methods of what came to be known as the Ponzi Scheme were described in two separate novels written by Charles Dickens, Martin Chuzzlewit, published in 1844 and Little Dorrit in 1857.



Charles Ponzi's original scheme in 1919 was focused on the US Postal Service. The postal service, at that time, had developed international reply coupons that allowed a sender to pre-purchase postage and include it in their correspondence. The receiver would take the coupon to a local post office and exchange it for the priority airmail postage stamps needed to send a reply.






Ponzi schemes rely on a constant flow of new investments to continue to provide returns to older investors.



This type of exchange is known as an arbitrage, which is not an illegal practice. But Ponzi became greedy and expanded his efforts.



Under the heading of his company, Securities Exchange Company, he promised returns of 50% in 45 days or 100% in 90 days. Due to his success in the postage stamp scheme, investors were immediately attracted. Instead of actually investing the money, Ponzi just redistributed it and told the investors they made a profit. The scheme lasted until August of 1920 when The Boston Post began investigating the Securities Exchange Company. As a result of the newspaper's investigation, Ponzi was arrested by federal authorities on Aug. 12, 1920, and charged with several counts of mail fraud. In November 1920, Ponzi was sentenced to five years in prison.


   Madoff and the Largest Ponzi Scheme in History  

The concept of the Ponzi scheme did not end in 1920. As technology changed, so did the Ponzi scheme. In 2008, Bernard Madoff was convicted of running a Ponzi scheme that falsified trading reports to show a client was earning a profit on investments that didn't exist.



Madoff promoted his Ponzi scheme as an investment strategy called the split-strike conversion that utilized ownership of S&P 100 stocks and options. Madoff would use blue-chip stocks which have highly accessible historical trading data which he could back into to falsify his records. Then, falsified transactions that never occurred were reported to yield the desired periodic return.



During the 2008 Global Financial Crisis, investors began to withdraw funds from Madoff's firm, exposing the illiquid nature of the firm's true financial picture. Madoff stated that his firm had approximately $50 billion of liabilities owed to approximately 4,800 clients. Sentenced to 150 years in prison with forfeiture of assets of $170 billion, Madoff died in prison on April 14, 2021.






Ponzi schemes can be carried out over decades. Investigators suspect Madoff's Ponzi scheme was started in the early 1980's and lasted over 30 years.


   Ponzi Scheme Red Flags  

Regardless of the technology used in the Ponzi scheme, most share similar characteristics. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has identified the following traits to watch for:



A guaranteed promise of high returns with little riskA consistent flow of returns regardless of market conditionsInvestments that have not been registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)Investment strategies that are secret or described as too complex to explainClients not allowed to view official paperwork for their investmentClients facing difficulties removing their money




What Is an Example of a Ponzi Scheme?
Imagine a very basic example where Adam promises 10% returns to his friend Barry. Barry gives Adam $1,000 with the expectation that the value of the investment will be $1,100 in one year. Next, Adam promises 10% returns to his friend Christine. Christine agrees to give Adam $2,000.With $3,000 now on hand, Adam can make Barry whole by paying him $1,100. In addition, Adam can steal $1,000 from the collective pool of funds if he believes he can get future investors to give him money. For this plan to work, Adam must continually get money from a new client in order to pay back older ones.




What's the Difference Between a Ponzi Scheme and a Pyramid Scheme?
A Ponzi scheme is a mechanism to attract investors with a promise of future returns. The operator of a Ponzi scheme can only maintain the scheme as long as new investors are brought into the fold.On the other hand, a pyramid scheme recruits other people and incentivizes them to further bring along other investors. A member within a pyramid scheme only earns a portion of their proceeds and is "used" to generate profit by members higher along the pyramid.




Why Is it Called a Ponzi Scheme?
Ponzi schemes are named after Charles Ponzi, a 1920's businessman who successfully persuaded tens of thousands of clients to invest their funds with him. Ponzi's scheme promised a specific amount of profit after a specific amount of time through the purchase nd sale of discounted postal reply coupons. Instead, he was using new money invested to pay off old obligations.




How Do You Identify a Ponzi Scheme?
The SEC has identified a few traits that often signify a fraudulent financial scheme. It is important to understand that almost all types of investing incur some level of risk, and many forms do not carry with them guaranteed profits. If an investment opportunity (1) guarantees a specific return, (2) guarantees that return by a certain time, and (3) is not registered with the SEC, the SEC advises to invest with caution as these as identifiers of fraud.




What Is the Most Famous Ponzi Scheme?
The most famous modern Ponzi scheme was orchestrated by Bernie Madoff. His firm executed the largest Ponzi scheme in history, defrauding thousands of investors out of billions of dollars over decades.


   The Bottom Line  

When clients give money to their financial advisers or investment firms, they expect a level of fiduciary duty. Unfortunately, those funds can be fraudulently mismanaged through Ponzi schemes. By taking one investor's money to repay another, Ponzi schemes aren't actual investment plans. They are fraudulent investment schemes that have resulted in the loss of billions of dollars.
What Are Pooled Funds?  

Pooled funds are funds in a portfolio from many individual investors that are aggregated for the purposes of investment. Mutual funds, hedge funds, exchange traded funds, pension funds, and unit investment trusts are all examples of professionally managed pooled funds. Investors in pooled funds benefit from economies of scale, which allow for lower trading costs per dollar of investment, and diversification.





Key Takeaways

Pooled funds aggregate capital from a number of individuals, investing as one giant portfolio.Many pooled funds, such as mutual funds and unit investment trusts (UITs), are professionally managed.Pooled funds allow an individual to access opportunities of scale available only to large institutional investors.


   The Basics of Pooled Funds  

Groups such as investment clubs, partnerships, and trusts use pooled funds to invest in stocks, bonds, and mutual funds. The pooled investment account lets the investors be treated as a single account holder, enabling them to buy more shares collectively than they could individually, and often for better—discounted—prices.



Mutual funds are among the best-known of pooled funds. Actively managed by professionals, unless they are index funds, they spread their holdings across various investment vehicles, reducing the effect that any single or class of securities has on the overall portfolio. Because mutual funds contain hundreds or thousands of securities, investors are less affected if one security underperforms.



Another type of pooled fund is the unit investment trust. These pooled funds take money from smaller investors to invest in stocks, bonds, and other securities. However, unlike a mutual fund, the unit investment trust does not change its portfolio over the life of the fund and invests for a fixed length of time.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Pooled Funds  
  Advantages  

With pooled funds, groups of investors can take advantage of opportunities typically available to only large investors. In addition, investors save on transaction costs and further diversify their portfolios. Because funds contain hundreds or thousands of securities, investors are less affected if one security underperforms.



The professional management helps to make sure investors receive the best risk-return tradeoff while aligning with their work with the fund's objectives. This management helps investors who may lack the time and knowledge for handling their own investments entirely.



Mutual funds, in particular, offer a range of investment options for the highly aggressive, mildly aggressive and risk-averse investor. Mutual funds allow for the reinvestment of dividends and interest that can purchase additional fund shares. The investor saves money by not paying transaction fees to hold all of the securities contained in the fund's portfolio basket while growing his portfolio.





Pros

Diversification lowers risk.
Economies of scale enhance buying power.
Professional money management is available.
Minimum investments are low.



Cons

Commissions and annual fees are incurred.
Fund activities may have tax consequences.
Individual lacks control over investments.
Diversification can limit upside.





  Disadvantages  

When money is pooled into a group fund, the individual investor has less control over the group’s investment decisions than if he were making the decisions alone. Not all group decisions are best for each individual in the group. Also, the group must reach a consensus before deciding what to purchase. When the market is volatile, taking the time and effort to reach an agreement can take away opportunities for quick profits or reducing potential losses.



When investing in a professionally managed fund, an investor gives up control to the money manager running it. In addition, he incurs additional costs in the form of management fees. Charged annually as a percentage of the assets under management (AUM), fees reduce a fund's total return.



Some mutual funds also charge a load or sales charge. Funds will vary on when this fee is billed, but most common are front-end loads—paid at the time of purchase and back-end loads—paid at the time of divesting.



An investor will file and pay taxes on fund distributed capital gains. These profits are spread evenly among all investors, sometimes at the expense of new shareholders who did not get a chance to benefit over time from the sold holdings.



If the fund sells holdings often, capital gains distributions could happen annually, increasing an investor’s taxable income.


   Example of a Pooled Fund  

The Vanguard Group, Inc. is one of the world's largest investment management companies and providers of retirement plan services. The firm offers hundreds of different mutual funds, ETFs, and other pooled funds to investors around the world.



For example, its Canadian subsidiary, Vanguard Investments Canada, offers Canadian investors many pooled fund products. These products include 39 Canadian ETFs and four mutual funds, along with 12 target retirement funds and eight pooled funds—the two latter groups are available to institutional investors.



One of the pooled funds, Vanguard Global ex-Canada Fixed Income Index Pooled Fund (CAD-hedged), invests in foreign bonds. In April 2019, it took a new benchmark—the Bloomberg Global Aggregate ex-CAD Float Adjusted and Scaled Index—to take advantage of including the Chinese government policy bank bonds in its Canadian portfolio offering.
What Is Population?  

A population is the complete set group of individuals, whether that group comprises a nation or a group of people with a common characteristic.



In statistics, a population is the pool of individuals from which a statistical sample is drawn for a study. Thus, any selection of individuals grouped by a common feature can be said to be a population. A sample may also refer to a statistically significant portion of a population, not an entire population. For this reason, a statistical analysis of a sample must report the approximate standard deviation, or standard error, of its results from the entire population. Only an analysis of an entire population would have no standard error.





Key Takeaways

In ordinary usage, a population is a distinct group of individuals with shared citizenship, identity, or characteristics.In statistics, a population is a representative sample of a larger group of people (or even things) with one or more characteristics in common.The members of a sample population must be randomly selected for the results of the study to accurately reflect the whole.The U.S. Census is perhaps the most ambitious survey in existence, given that it entails a door-to-door canvas of the entire population rather than a sample group study.Population surveys large and small inform many if not most decisions by government and business.


   Understanding Populations  

In most everyday uses, the word population implies a group of people or at least a group of living beings. However, statisticians refer to whatever group they are studying as a population. The population of a study might be babies born in North America in 2021, the total number of tech startups in Asia since the year 2000, the average height of all accounting examination candidates, or the mean weight of U.S. taxpayers.



Statisticians and researchers prefer to know the characteristics of every entity in a population to draw the most precise conclusions possible. This is impossible or impractical most of the time, however, since population sets tend to be quite large.



For example, if a company wanted to know whether most of its 50,000 customers were satisfied with the company's service last year, it would be impractical to call every client on the phone to conduct a survey. A sample of the population must be taken since the characteristics of every individual in a population cannot be measured due to constraints of time, resources, and accessibility.


   How to Calculate a Population  

A population can be defined narrowly, such as the number of newborn babies in North America with brown eyes, the number of startups in Asia that failed in less than three years, the average height of all female accounting examination candidates, or the mean weight of all U.S. taxpayers over age 30.



The science of political polling offers a good example of the difficulty of selecting a random sampling of the population. One of the reasons why many of the last two presidential election polls have been wrong could be that the type of people who willingly answer poll questions may not constitute a random sample of the population of likely voters.



Nonetheless, surveys and polls may be the only efficient way to identify and validate issues and trends that affect the wider population. For example, growing concerns have been expressed about harassment online, but how common is it? A study by Pew Research indicates that 41% of American adults have experienced online harassment, with 11% reporting they had been outright stalked, and 14% saying they had been physically threatened.


   Population vs. Samples  

A sample is a random selection of members of a population. It is a smaller group drawn from the population that has the characteristics of the entire population. The observations and conclusions made against the sample data are attributed to the population as a whole.



The information obtained from the statistical sample allows statisticians to develop hypotheses about the larger population. In statistical equations, the population is usually denoted with an uppercase N while the sample is usually denoted with a lowercase n.



There are several ways to obtain samples (known as sampling) from a population. These include a simple random sample, stratified sampling, representative sampling, and convenience sampling. Researchers and analysts employ a range of statistical techniques to infer information about the broader population using just the smaller sample chosen. Note that sample size is an important issue when conducting such inference - if the sample is too small it may be biased and not trustworthy, while larger samples may be overly expensive and time-consuming to collect and analyze.



As an illustration, assume that the population being studied is all of the zeroes depicted in the image below. The red circles form a sample of the population of all circles on the page.















The red circles form a sample of the population of all circles on the page.
C.K.Taylor


  Population Parameters  

A parameter is data based on an entire population. Statistics such as averages (means) and standard deviations, when taken from populations, are referred to as population parameters. The population mean and population standard deviation are represented by the Greek letters µ and σ, respectively.



A valid statistic may be drawn from either a population sample or a study of an entire population. The objective of a random sample is to avoid bias in the results. A sample is random if every member of the whole population has an equal chance to be selected to participate.



While a parameter is a characteristic of a population, a statistic is a characteristic of a sample. Inferential statistics enables you to make an educated guess about a population parameter based on a statistic computed from a sample randomly drawn from that population.



The standard deviation, for example, is the variation of some variable in the population, which can be inferred from the variation observed in the sample. But, because this is being inferred from a sample, there will always be some sort of error term describing how likely it is that the analysis from the sample does not reflect the true standard deviation (or mean, etc.). Various statistical tools like confidence intervals, the t-test, and p-values can inform an analyst of how confident they might be in making such inferences.






If you have the data for the entire population being studied, you do not need to use statistical inference from a sample, since you already know the population's parameters.


   The Demographic Meaning of Population  

While population can refer to any complete set of data in the statistical sense, population takes on another meaning when we talk about the demographic or geopolitical context. Here, a population refers to the entirety of the people inhabiting a particular region, country, or even the entire planet. Census counts keep track of the number of citizens that populate different counties along with their characteristics such as age, race, gender, income, occupation, and so on. Population counts are important for governments in order to collect taxes and allocate the proper amount of funding to various infrastructure and social programs.



Demography is the study of populations and their characteristics, and how these change over time and from place to place. Population statistics and demographics inform public policy and business decisions. Some examples:



The World Bank is an international organization that aims to reduce global poverty by lending money to poor nations for projects that improve their economies and raise their overall standard of living. To pinpoint where help is most needed, the Bank conducts an authoritative, country-by-country headcount based on local data of people living in extreme poverty. The numbers fell steadily from over 40% of the global population in 1981 to as low as 8.7% in 2018, according to the Bank. However, in 2020, the impact of the COVID-19 epidemic was expected to cause the first yearly increase in extreme poverty in more than 20 years.
The U.S. Census, mandated once a decade by the U.S. Constitution, is probably the most ambitious population study in existence, given that it is not a sample but an actual door-to-door count. It is used to determine how many congressional seats each state gets and how federal funds are distributed. The data also is used by many other entities, private and public, to decide where hospitals and schools are built, where businesses locate, and what types of homes are built.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has been conducting a National Health Interview Survey since 1957 to identify and track health issues and problems. Its recent reports include studies of chronic conditions among military veterans, opioid-related visits to emergency wards, and the quality of care for Americans suffering from dementia.





9.7 billion

The world's population by the middle of the 21st century, according to the United Nations.








What Is Population in Research?
The entire set of units (the universe of things) being studied is referred to collectively as the population. This can be a group of people, companies, organisms, government bonds, or anything else. What matters is that the population includes every one of those things.If randomly selected, a sample taken from the population can be used to study associations or attributes that may be representative of the larger population. For example, in a recent Gallup Poll, 57% of randomly selected 1,015 retirees said Social Security was a "major" source of their income. It can be concluded that most American retirees rely on Social Security, based on the responses of the population surveyed, but with a margin of error.




What Will the World Population Be in 2050?
The world population is expected to grow from 7.7 billion in 2019 to 9.7 billion in 2050, according to a projection by the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs. The greatest growth is expected in sub-Sarahan Africa, where the population may double, while Europe and North America are expected to have the least growth, at just 2%.




What Is 1% of the World's Population?
The world's current population is estimated at 7.7 billion by the United Nations, so 1% of that would be 77 million.




What Are the 10 Countries with the Largest Populations?
China and India have by far the largest populations in the world, as of 2021, according to the World Bank. Here are the top 10 nations and their estimated populations:China, 1.41 billionIndia, 1.39 billionUnited States, 331.89 millionIndonesia, 276.36 millionPakistan, 225.20 millionBrazil, 213.99 millionNigeria, 211.40 millionBangladesh, 166.30 millionRussia, 143.45 millionMexico, 130.26 million




Is Earth Overpopulated?
The issue of overpopulation has been debated since at least 1786 when economist Thomas Malthus published his theory that the growth of the population will always outpace the growth in the food supply. This theory is known as Malthusianism.Malthus viewed the problem as an over-stretching of resources. Today's thinkers tend to give greater importance to the ethical and efficient distribution of resources.In any case, population trends are complex and their results are subject to debate. The population of the Earth has indisputably risen dramatically in the past 70 years, from under three billion in 1950 to nearly eight billion now. But birth rates have declined sharply in developed nations during the same period.


   The Bottom Line  

Each of us is an individual component of many populations. In addition to being members of the human population of Earth and citizens of a nation, we are members of many sub-populations based on age, gender, income, health status, and many other factors.



When statisticians attempt to ascertain a fact or facts about any of those sub-populations, they typically rely on a sample population. These test subjects, selected at random, yield conclusions that are extended to the general population being studied.
What Is Pork Barrel Politics?  

Pork-barrel politics is the legislator's practice of slipping funding for a local project into a budget. The project may have nothing to do with the bill and may benefit only the legislator's home district. Before a bill gets to a vote, pork-barreling has often greatly inflated its costs through the addition of various legislators' pet projects.



In modern politics, pork-barreling and earmarking have become virtually synonymous. To be fair, one politician's pork-barrel politics is another's constituent service.





Key Takeaways

Funding for a local project can be inserted into a larger budget as a line item. That's pork-barrel politics.Such projects will gain approval with the greater bill without the usual congressional scrutiny or oversight.Earmarking is virtually a synonym but may include projects not strictly local.


   Understanding Pork Barrel Politics  

The annual Congressional Pig Book documenting pork-barrel projects in the federal budget is published by a nonprofit organization called Citizens Against Government Waste (CAGW).



CAGW defines a pork-barrel project as a line item in an appropriations bill that designates tax dollars for a specific purpose while circumventing established budgetary procedures.﻿﻿﻿ Entries in the annual Congressional Pig Book satisfy at least two of seven criteria:



The project serves a limited population or special interest.It did not undergo a competitive bidding process.It was requisitioned by only one chamber of Congress.It was not authorized by an individual.It was not proposed by the president.It required funding that went well beyond the president's official budget request or the prior year's funding.It was not subjected to any congressional hearings.﻿﻿



In addition to all of the above, a project or program must have appeared in prior years as an earmark in order to qualify for the Pig Book.






The Bipartisan Budget Act removed all constraints on pork-barrel projects in 2018. The number of such projects and their overall price tag soared in 2019.﻿﻿



The year 2019 was a record-breaker for both the number and cost of pork-barrel projects added to the federal budget, according to CAGW.﻿﻿﻿


   Emptying the Pork Barrel  

Pork barrel politics was probably invented by the first legislator who ever lived, but it survives today, often under the slightly less pejorative term earmarks. In either case, it is a sum of money inserted as a line item in the federal budget that funds a specific project.



If there is a difference, projects that are earmarked may not be strictly local. For example, a legislator who has (or wants) a strong base of support among educators or technology companies might add an earmark to the budget that funds a pet project of one of those constituencies.


  Two Failed Strategies  

In modern U.S. history, there have been two major attempts to curb or cure pork-barrel politics.



The 2011 Bipartisan Control Act placed a moratorium on earmarks, which lasted in some form until 2018 when the Bipartisan Budget Act removed all restraints. CAGW points out that plenty of earmarks got through during the moratorium years, but their numbers soared more than 13% after it was lifted.﻿﻿
The line-item veto, every president's favorite pork-busting tool, was granted by Congress in 1995.﻿﻿ President Bill Clinton liberally used his power to strike individual budget items, but as it turned out he would be its sole practitioner. In 1998, the line-item veto was ruled unconstitutional by the U.S. Supreme Court.﻿﻿



However, the line-item veto has been adopted in 44 states, allowing governors to remove earmarks from state spending bills.
What Is the Porter Diamond Model?  

The Porter Diamond Theory of National Advantage, or the Porter Diamond Model, is a model that describes the competitive advantage that nations or groups possess based on factors available to them. The theory explains how governments can act to improve a country's position in a globally competitive economic environment.



Created by Michael Porter, founder of the Institute for Strategy and Competitiveness at the Harvard Business School, the Porter Diamond Model is considered a proactive economic theory.





Key Takeaways

The Porter Diamond Model explains the factors that can provide a competitive advantage for one national market or economy over another.The Porter Diamond Model visually resembles the points of a diamond and includes the factors of strategy, structure and rivalry, related industries, demand conditions, and factor conditions.The model is used by businesses to guide and shape strategy regarding investing and operating in national markets.


   Understanding the Porter Diamond Model  

The Porter Diamond Model suggests that countries can create advantages for themselves, such as a strong technology industry or a skilled labor force. Another application of the Porter Diamond Model is used in corporate strategy as a framework to analyze the relative merits of investing and operating in national markets.



The Porter Diamond Model is visually represented by a diagram that resembles the points of a diamond and includes the interrelated determinants that Porter theorizes as the deciding factors of national comparative economic advantage:



Firm strategy, structure, and rivalryRelated supporting industriesDemand conditionsFactor conditions.






Harvard Business School professor Michael E. Porter created the Porter Diamond Model and Porter's Five Forces.


   Points on the Porter Diamond Model  
  Firm Strategy, Structure, and Rivalry  

Firm strategy, structure, and rivalry define that competition leads to increased production and the development of technological innovations. The concentration of market power, degree of competition, and ability of rival firms to enter a nation's market are influential.


  Related Supporting Industries  

Related supporting industries consider the upstream and downstream industries that facilitate innovation through exchanging ideas. These can spur innovation depending on the degree of transparency and knowledge transfer.


  Demand Conditions  

Demand conditions refer to the size and nature of the customer base for products, which also drives innovation and product improvement. Larger consumer markets will demand and stimulate a need to differentiate and innovate and increase market scale for businesses.


  Factor Conditions  

According to Porter, the most important of the five points is factor conditions. Factor conditions are those elements that Porter believes a country's economy can create for itself, such as a large pool of skilled labor, technological innovation, infrastructure, and capital. One way for the government to accomplish that goal is to stimulate competition between domestic companies by establishing and enforcing anti-trust laws.




Why Does the Porter Diamond Model Consider Factor Conditions as Most Important?
The Porter Diamond Model purports that a country's economy can create skilled labor, technological innovation, infrastructure, and capital, and these factors outweigh naturally inherited factors such as land and natural resources.




How Have Countries Developed Factor Conditions to Create a Better Economy?
Japan has developed a competitive global economic presence beyond the country's inherent resources by producing a large number of engineers that have helped drive technological innovation in Japanese industries.




How Can the Porter Diamond Model Help Businesses Improve?
The theory helps businesses understand why certain industries are widespread in some nations. Companies can then analyze and compare their position in the market and implement strategies to compete.




What Is Porter's Five Forces Model?
Similar to the Porter Diamond Model, Porter's Five Forces model of business strategy identifies and analyzes five competitive forces that shape every industry and help determine an industry's weaknesses and strengths. 


   The Bottom Line  

The Porter Diamond Model explains the factors that provide a competitive advantage for one national economy or business over another. The points of the theory resembling a diamond include the firm strategy, structure and rivalry, related industries, demand conditions, and factor conditions. The model can be used by businesses to guide and shape strategies regarding investing and operating in national markets.
What Are Porter's Five Forces?  

Porter's Five Forces is a model that identifies and analyzes five competitive forces that shape every industry and helps determine an industry's weaknesses and strengths. Five Forces analysis is frequently used to identify an industry's structure to determine corporate strategy.



Porter's model can be applied to any segment of the economy to understand the level of competition within the industry and enhance a company's long-term profitability. The Five Forces model is named after Harvard Business School professor Michael E. Porter.



Porter's 5 forces are:



Competition in the industryPotential of new entrants into the industryPower of suppliersPower of customersThreat of substitute products






Subscribe to 'Term of the Day' and learn a new financial term every day. Stay informed and make smart financial decisions. Sign up now.





Key Takeaways

Porter's Five Forces is a framework for analyzing a company's competitive environment.Porter's Five Forces is a frequently used guideline for evaluating the competitive forces that influence a variety of business sectors.It was created by Harvard Business School professor Michael E. Porter in 1979 and has since become an important tool for managers.These forces include the number and power of a company's competitive rivals, potential new market entrants, suppliers, customers, and substitute products that influence a company's profitability.Five Forces analysis can be used to guide business strategy to increase competitive advantage.












Investopedia / Xiaojie Liu


   Understanding Porter's Five Forces  

Porter's Five Forces is a business analysis model that helps to explain why various industries are able to sustain different levels of profitability. The model was published in Michael E. Porter's book, Competitive Strategy: Techniques for Analyzing Industries and Competitors, in 1979.



The Five Forces model is widely used to analyze the industry structure of a company as well as its corporate strategy. Porter identified five undeniable forces that play a part in shaping every market and industry in the world, with some caveats. The Five Forces are frequently used to measure competition intensity, attractiveness, and profitability of an industry or market.


   1. Competition in the Industry  

The first of the Five Forces refers to the number of competitors and their ability to undercut a company. The larger the number of competitors, along with the number of equivalent products and services they offer, the lesser the power of a company.



Suppliers and buyers seek out a company's competition if they are able to offer a better deal or lower prices. Conversely, when competitive rivalry is low, a company has greater power to charge higher prices and set the terms of deals to achieve higher sales and profits.


   2. Potential of New Entrants Into an Industry  

A company's power is also affected by the force of new entrants into its market. The less time and money it costs for a competitor to enter a company's market and be an effective competitor, the more an established company's position could be significantly weakened.



An industry with strong barriers to entry is ideal for existing companies within that industry since the company would be able to charge higher prices and negotiate better terms.


   3. Power of Suppliers  

The next factor in the Porter model addresses how easily suppliers can drive up the cost of inputs. It is affected by the number of suppliers of key inputs of a good or service, how unique these inputs are, and how much it would cost a company to switch to another supplier. The fewer suppliers to an industry, the more a company would depend on a supplier.



As a result, the supplier has more power and can drive up input costs and push for other advantages in trade. On the other hand, when there are many suppliers or low switching costs between rival suppliers, a company can keep its input costs lower and enhance its profits.


   4. Power of Customers  

The ability that customers have to drive prices lower or their level of power is one of the Five Forces. It is affected by how many buyers or customers a company has, how significant each customer is, and how much it would cost a company to find new customers or markets for its output.



A smaller and more powerful client base means that each customer has more power to negotiate for lower prices and better deals. A company that has many, smaller, independent customers will have an easier time charging higher prices to increase profitability.






The Five Forces model can help businesses boost profits, but they must continuously monitor any changes in the Five Forces and adjust their business strategy.


   5. Threat of Substitutes  

The last of the Five Forces focuses on substitutes. Substitute goods or services that can be used in place of a company's products or services pose a threat. Companies that produce goods or services for which there are no close substitutes will have more power to increase prices and lock in favorable terms. When close substitutes are available, customers will have the option to forgo buying a company's product, and a company's power can be weakened.



Understanding Porter's Five Forces and how they apply to an industry, can enable a company to adjust its business strategy to better use its resources to generate higher earnings for its investors.




What Are Porter's Five Forces Used for?
Porter's Five Forces Model helps managers and analysts understand the competitive landscape that a company faces and to understand how a company is positioned within it.




Is Porter's Five Forces Model Still Relevant?
Yes, even though it was created more than 40 years ago, the Five Forces Model continues to be a useful tool for understanding how a company is positioned competitively.




What Are Some Drawbacks of Porter's Five Forces?
The Five Forces model has some drawbacks, including that it is backward-looking, making its findings mostly relevant only in the short term; that limitation is compounded by the impact of globalization.Another big drawback is the tendency to try to use the five forces to analyze an individual company, versus a broad industry, which is how the framework was intended.Also problematic is that the framework is structured so that each company is placed in one industry group when some companies straddle several. Another issue includes the need to assess all five forces equally when some industries aren't as heavily impacted by all five.




What's the Difference Between Porter's Five Forces and SWOT Analysis?
Porter's 5 Forces and SWOT (strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, & threats) analysis are both tools used to analyze and make strategic decisions. Companies, analysts, and investors use Porter's 5 Forces to analyze the competitive environment within an industry, while they tend to use a SWOT analysis to look more deeply within an organization to analyze its internal potential.


   The Bottom Line  

Porter's Five Forces framework defines the most important criteria to consider when looking at the competitive landscape of a corporation. High threat levels typically signal that future profits may deteriorate and vice versa. For example, an early startup in a fast-growing industry might quickly become shut out if barriers to entry are not present. Likewise, a company selling products for which there are numerous substitutes will not be able to exercise pricing power to improve its margins, and it may even lose market share to its competitors.



The reason Porter's model became so widely adopted is that it forces companies to look beyond their own immediate business and to their industry as a whole when making long-term plans. Porter's still plays a vital role in that, but it should not be the sole tool in the toolbox when it comes to building a business strategy.
What Is a Portfolio Investment?  

A portfolio investment is ownership of a stock, bond, or other financial asset with the expectation that it will earn a return or grow in value over time, or both. It entails passive or hands-off ownership of assets as opposed to direct investment, which would involve an active management role.



Portfolio investment may be divided into two main categories:



Strategic investment involves buying financial assets for their long-term growth potential or their income yield, or both, with the intention of holding onto those assets for a long time.
The tactical approach requires active buying and selling activity in hopes of achieving short-term gains.


   Understanding Portfolio Investment  

The term portfolio investments covers a wide range of asset classes including stocks, government bonds, corporate bonds, real estate investment trusts (REITs), mutual funds, exchange-traded funds (ETFs), and bank certificates of deposit.



Portfolio investments can also include more esoteric choices including options and derivatives such as warrants and futures.





Key Takeaways

A portfolio investment is an asset that is purchased in the expectation that it will earn a return or grow in value, or both.A portfolio investment is passive, unlike a direct investment, which implies hands-on management.Risk tolerance and time horizon are key factors in selecting any portfolio investment.



There also are physical investments such as real estate, commodities, art, land, timber, and gold.



In fact, a portfolio investment can be any possession that is purchased for the purpose of generating a return in the short or long term.


  Making Choices  

The composition of investments in a portfolio depends on a number of factors. The most important are the investor’s tolerance for risk and investment horizon. Is the investor a young professional with children, a mature person looking forward to retirement, or a retiree looking for a reliable income supplement?



Those with a greater risk tolerance may favor investments in growth stocks, real estate, international securities, and options, while more conservative investors may opt for government bonds and blue-chip stocks.






A portfolio investment can be anything from a stock or a mutual fund to real estate or art.



On a larger scale, mutual funds and institutional investors are in the business of making portfolio investments. For the largest institutional investors such as pension funds and sovereign funds, this may include infrastructure assets like bridges and toll roads.



Portfolio investments by institutional investors generally are held for the long term and are relatively conservative. Pension funds and college endowment funds are not invested in speculative stocks.


  Portfolio Investments for Retirement  

Investors saving for retirement are often advised to focus on a diversified mix of low-cost investments for their portfolios.



Index funds have become popular in individual retirement accounts (IRAs) and 401(k) accounts, due to their broad exposure to a number of asset classes at a minimum expense level. These types of funds make ideal core holdings in retirement portfolios.



Those who want a more hands-on approach may tweak their portfolio allocations by adding additional asset classes such as real estate, private equity, and individual stocks and bonds to the portfolio mix.
What Is Portfolio Management?  

Portfolio management is the art and science of selecting and overseeing a group of investments that meet the long-term financial objectives and risk tolerance of a client, a company, or an institution.



Some individuals do their own investment portfolio management. That requires a basic understanding of the key elements of portfolio building and maintenance that make for success, including asset allocation, diversification, and rebalancing.





Key Takeaways

Investment portfolio management involves building and overseeing a selection of assets such as stocks, bonds, and cash that meet the long-term financial goals and risk tolerance of an investor.Active portfolio management requires strategically buying and selling stocks and other assets in an effort to beat the performance of the broader market.Passive portfolio management seeks to match the returns of the market by mimicking the makeup of an index or indexes.Investors can implement strategies to aggressively pursue profits, conservatively attempt to preserve capital, or a blend of both.Portfolio management requires clear long-term goals, clarity from the IRS on tax legislation changes, understanding of investor risk tolerance, and a willingness to study investment options.


   Understanding Portfolio Management  

Professional licensed portfolio managers work on behalf of clients, while individuals may choose to build and manage their own portfolios. In either case, the portfolio manager's ultimate goal is to maximize the investments' expected return within an appropriate level of risk exposure.



Portfolio management requires the ability to weigh strengths and weaknesses, opportunities and threats across the full spectrum of investments. The choices involve trade-offs, from debt versus equity to domestic versus international, and growth versus safety.






   Portfolio Management: Passive vs. Active  

Portfolio management may be either passive or active.



Passive management is the set-it-and-forget-it long-term strategy. It may involve investing in one or more exchange-traded (ETF) index funds. This is commonly referred to as indexing or index investing. Those who build indexed portfolios may use modern portfolio theory (MPT) to help them optimize the mix.



Active management involves attempting to beat the performance of an index by actively buying and selling individual stocks and other assets. Closed-end funds are generally actively managed. Active managers may use any of a wide range of quantitative or qualitative models to aid in their evaluations of potential investments.


  Active Portfolio Management  

Investors who implement an active management approach use fund managers or brokers to buy and sell stocks in an attempt to outperform a specific index, such as the Standard & Poor's 500 Index or the Russell 1000 Index.



An actively managed investment fund has an individual portfolio manager, co-managers, or a team of managers actively making investment decisions for the fund. The success of an actively managed fund depends on a combination of in-depth research, market forecasting, and the expertise of the portfolio manager or management team.



Portfolio managers engaged in active investing pay close attention to market trends, shifts in the economy, changes to the political landscape, and news that affects companies. This data is used to time the purchase or sale of investments in an effort to take advantage of irregularities. Active managers claim that these processes will boost the potential for returns higher than those achieved by simply mimicking the holdings on a particular index.



Trying to beat the market inevitably involves additional market risk. Indexing eliminates this particular risk, as there is no possibility of human error in terms of stock selection. Index funds are also traded less frequently, which means that they incur lower expense ratios and are more tax-efficient than actively managed funds.


  Passive Portfolio Management  

Passive portfolio management, also referred to as index fund management, aims to duplicate the return of a particular market index or benchmark. Managers buy the same stocks that are listed on the index, using the same weighting that they represent in the index.



A passive strategy portfolio can be structured as an exchange-traded fund (ETF), a mutual fund, or a unit investment trust. Index funds are branded as passively managed because each has a portfolio manager whose job is to replicate the index rather than select the assets purchased or sold.



The management fees assessed on passive portfolios or funds are typically far lower than active management strategies.


   Portfolio Management: Discretionary vs. Non-Discretionary  

Another critical element of portfolio management is the concept of discretionary and non-discretionary management. This portfolio management approach dictates what a third-party may be allowed to do relating to your portfolio.



A discretionary or non-discretionary management style only pertains to if you have an independent broker managing your portfolio. If you only want the broker to execute trades that you have explicitly approved, you must opt for a non-discretionary investment account. The broker may advise on strategy and suggest investment moves. However, without your approval, the broker is simply an adviser that must follow your discretion.



On the other hand, some investors would prefer placing all of the decision-making in the hands of their broker or financial manager. In these situations, the financial adviser can buy or sell securities without the approval of the investor. The adviser still has a fiduciary responsibility to act in their client's best interest when managing their portfolio.


   Key Elements of Portfolio Management  
  Asset Allocation  

The key to effective portfolio management is the long-term mix of assets. Generally, that means stocks, bonds, and cash equivalents such as certificates of deposit. There are others, often referred to as alternative investments, such as real estate, commodities, derivatives, and cryptocurrency.



Asset allocation is based on the understanding that different types of assets do not move in concert, and some are more volatile than others. A mix of assets provides balance and protects against risk.



Investors with a more aggressive profile weight their portfolios toward more volatile investments such as growth stocks. Investors with a conservative profile weight their portfolios toward stabler investments such as bonds and blue-chip stocks.






Rebalancing captures recent gains and opens new opportunities while keeping the portfolio in line with its original risk/return profile.


  Diversification  

The only certainty in investing is that it is impossible to consistently predict winners and losers. The prudent approach is to create a basket of investments that provides broad exposure within an asset class.



Diversification involves spreading the risk and reward of individual securities within an asset class, or between asset classes. Because it is difficult to know which subset of an asset class or sector is likely to outperform another, diversification seeks to capture the returns of all of the sectors over time while reducing volatility at any given time.



Real diversification is made across various classes of securities, sectors of the economy, and geographical regions.


  Rebalancing  

Rebalancing is used to return a portfolio to its original target allocation at regular intervals, usually annually. This is done to reinstate the original asset mix when the movements of the markets force it out of kilter.



For example, a portfolio that starts out with a 70% equity and 30% fixed-income allocation could, after an extended market rally, shift to an 80/20 allocation. The investor has made a good profit, but the portfolio now has more risk than the investor can tolerate.



Rebalancing generally involves selling high-priced securities and putting that money to work in lower-priced and out-of-favor securities. The annual exercise of rebalancing allows the investor to capture gains and expand the opportunity for growth in high-potential sectors while keeping the portfolio aligned with the original risk/return profile.


  Tax-Efficiency  

A potentially material aspect of portfolio management relates to how your portfolio is shaped to minimize taxes in the long-term. This pertains to how different retirement accounts are used, how long securities are held on for, and which securities are held.



For example, consider how certain bonds may be tax-exempt. This means that any dividends earned are not subject to taxes. On the other hand, consider how the IRS had different rules relating to short-term or long-term capital gains taxes. For individuals earning less than $41,675 in 2023, their capital gains rate may be $0. On the other hand, a short-term capital gains tax of 15% may apply if your income is above this IRS limit.






Portfolio management encompasses investments across all vehicles such as cash accounts, 401(k)s, IRAs, and other retirement accounts.


   Common Portfolio Management Strategies  

Every investor's specific situation is unique. Therefore, while some investors may be risk-averse, others may be inclined to pursue the greatest returns (while also incurring the greatest risk). Very broadly speaking, there are several common portfolio management strategies an investor can consider:



Aggressive: An aggressive portfolio prioritizes maximizing the potential earnings of the portfolio. Often invested in riskier industries or unproven alternative assets, an investor may not care about losses. Instead, the investor is looking for the "home run" investment by striking it big with a single investment.
Conservative: On the other hand, a conservative portfolio relates to capital preservation. Extremely risk-adverse investors may adopt a portfolio management strategy that minimizes growth but also minimizes the risk of losses.
Moderate: A moderate portfolio management strategy would simply blend an aggressive and conservative approach. In an attempt to get the best of both worlds, a moderate portfolio still invests heavily in equities but also diversifies and may be more selective in what those equities are.
Income-Orientated: Often a consideration for older investors, some folks who do not have income may rely on their portfolio to generate income that can be used to live off of. Consider how a retiree no longer has a stable paycheck. However, that retiree may no longer be interested in generating wealth but instead of using their existing wealth to live. This strategy priorities fixed-income securities or equities that issue dividends.
Tax-Efficient: As discussed above, investors may be inclined to focus primarily on minimizing taxes, even at the expense of higher returns. This may be especially important for high-earners who are in the highest capital gains tax bracket. This may also be a priority for young investors who have a very long way until retirement. By getting started with a Roth IRA, these investors may be able to grow their portfolio over their entire life and face no federal taxes on withdrawal when they retire.


   Challenges of Portfolio Management  

Regardless of the strategy chosen, portfolio management always faces several hurdles that often cannot be eliminated entirely. Even if an investor has a foolproof portfolio management strategy, investment portfolios are subject to market fluctuations and volatility which can be unpredictable. even the best management approach can lead to significant losses.



Though diversification is an important aspect of portfolio management, it can also be challenging to achieve. Finding the right mix of asset classes and investment products to balance risk and return requires a deep understanding of the market and the individual investor's risk tolerance. It may also be expensive to buy a wide range of securities to meet the desired diversification.



To devise the best portfolio management strategy, an investor must first know their risk tolerance, investment horizon, and return expectations. This requires a clear short-term and long-term goal. Because life circumstances can quickly and rapidly change, investors must be mindful of how some strategies limit investment liquidity or flexibility. In addition, the IRS may implement changes to tax legislation that may force changes to your ultimate strategy.



Last, should an investor turn to a portfolio manager to manage their investments, this will incur a management fee. The portfolio manager must often meet specific regulatory reporting requirements, and the manager may not have the same opinions or concerns about the market as you do.




What Are the Types of Portfolio Management?
Broadly speaking, there are only two types of portfolio management strategies: passive investing and active investing. Passive management is a set-it-and-forget-it long-term strategy. Often referred to as indexing or index investing, it aims to duplicate the return of a particular market index or benchmark and may involve investing in one or more exchange-traded (ETF) index funds. Active management involves attempting to beat the performance of an index by actively buying and selling individual stocks and other assets. Closed-end funds are generally actively managed.




What Is Asset Allocation?
Asset allocation involves spreading the investor's money among different asset classes so that risks are reduced and opportunities are maximized. Stocks, bonds, and cash are the three most common asset classes, but others include real estate, commodities, currencies, and crypto. Within each of these are sub-classes that play into a portfolios allocation. For instance, how much weight should be given to domestic vs. foreign stocks or bonds? How much to growth stocks vs. value stocks? And so on.




What Is Diversification?
Diversification involves owning assets and asset classes that have been shown over time to move in opposite directions. When one asset class performs poorly, other asset classes usually prosper. This provides a cushion to your portfolio, offsetting losses. Moreover, financial mathematics shows that proper diversification can increase a portfolio's overall expected return while reducing its riskiness.




What Is the Objective of Portfolio Management?
The objective of portfolio management is to create and maintain a personalized plan for investing over the long term in order to meet an individual's key financial goals. This means selecting a mix of investments that matches the person's responsibilities, objectives, and appetite for risk. Further, it means reevaluating the actual performance of the portfolio over time to make sure it is on track and to revise it as needed.




What Does an Investment Portfolio Manager Do?
An investment portfolio manager meets with a client one-on-one to get a detailed picture of the person's current financial situation, long-term goals, and tolerance for risk. From there, the portfolio manager can draw up a proposal for how the client can meet their goals. If the client accepts the plan, the portfolio can be created by buying the selected assets. The client may start out by contributing a lump sum, or add to the portfolio's balance periodically, or both. The portfolio manager takes responsibility for monitoring the assets and making changes to the portfolio as needed, with the approval of the client. Portfolio managers generally charge a fee for their service that is based on the client's assets under management.


   The Bottom Line  

Anyone who wants to grow their money has choices to make. You can be your own investment portfolio manager or you can hire a professional to do it for you. You can choose a passive management strategy by putting your money in index funds. Or, you can try to beat the markets by moving your money more frequently from one asset to another.



In any case, you'll want to pay attention to the basics of portfolio management: pick a mix of assets to lower your overall risk, diversify your holdings to maximize your potential returns, and rebalance your portfolio regularly to keep the mix right.
What Is a Portfolio Manager?  

A portfolio manager is a person or group of people responsible for investing a mutual, exchange traded or closed-end fund's assets, implementing its investment strategy, and managing day-to-day portfolio trading. A portfolio manager is one of the most important factors to consider when looking at fund investing. Portfolio management can be active or passive, and historical performance records indicate that only a minority of active fund managers consistently beat the market.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

A portfolio manager is a person or group of people responsible for investing a fund's assets, implementing the fund's investment strategies, and managing day-to-day portfolio management.Portfolio managers can take an active or passive management role.The ability to originate ideas and to employ excellent research skills are just two factors that influence a portfolio manager's success.


   Understanding a Portfolio Manager's Role  

A portfolio manager holds great influence on a fund, no matter if that fund is a closed or open mutual fund, hedge fund, venture capital fund or exchange-traded fund. The manager of the fund's portfolio will directly affect the overall returns of the fund. Portfolio managers are thus usually experienced investors, brokers, or traders, with strong backgrounds in financial management and track records of sustained success.



A portfolio manager, regardless of background, is either an active or passive manager. If a manager takes a passive approach, their investment strategy mirrors a specific market index. Using that market index as a benchmark is extremely important since an investor should expect to see similar returns over the long term.



Conversely, a manager can take an active approach to investing, which means that they attempt to consistently beat average market returns. In this scenario, the portfolio manager themselves is extremely important, since their investment style directly results in the fund's returns. Potential investors should look at an active fund's marketing material for more information on the investment approach.


   Characteristics of a Good Portfolio Manager  

Regardless of the investment approach, all portfolio managers need to have very specific qualities in order to be successful. The first is ideation. If the portfolio manager is active, then the ability to have original investment insight is paramount. With over 7,000 active funds to choose from, active investors need to be smart about where they look.﻿﻿ If the manager takes a passive approach, the originating insight comes in the form of the market index they've decided to mirror. Passive managers must make smart choices about the index.



Additionally, the way in which a portfolio manager conducts research is very important. Active managers make a list of thousands of companies and pair it down to a list of a few hundred. The shortlist is then given to fund analysts to analyze the fundamentals of the potential investments, after which the portfolio manager assesses the companies and makes an investment decision. Passive managers also conduct research by looking at the various market indices and choosing the one best-suited for the fund.
What Is a Financial Portfolio?  

A portfolio is a collection of financial investments like stocks, bonds, commodities, cash, and cash equivalents, including closed-end funds and exchange traded funds (ETFs). People generally believe that stocks, bonds, and cash comprise the core of a portfolio. Though this is often the case, it does not need to be the rule. A portfolio may contain a wide range of assets including real estate, art, and private investments.



You may choose to hold and manage your portfolio yourself, or you may allow a money manager, financial advisor, or another finance professional to manage your portfolio.





Key Takeaways

A portfolio is a collection of financial investments like stocks, bonds, commodities, cash, and cash equivalents, as well as their fund counterparts.Stocks and bonds are generally considered a portfolio's core building blocks, though you may grow a portfolio with many different types of assets—including real estate, gold, paintings, and other art collectibles.Diversification is a key concept in portfolio management.A person's tolerance for risk, investment objectives, and time horizon are all critical factors when assembling and adjusting an investment portfolio.Portfolio management is an important financial skill for active investing.


   Understanding Financial Portfolios  

One of the key concepts in portfolio management is the wisdom of diversification—which simply means not putting all of your eggs in one basket. Diversification tries to reduce risk by allocating investments among various financial instruments, industries, and other categories. It aims to maximize returns by investing in different areas that would each react differently to the same event. There are many ways to diversify.



How you choose to do it is up to you. Your goals for the future, your appetite for risk, and your personality are all factors in deciding how to build your portfolio.



Regardless of your portfolio's asset mix, all portfolios should contain some degree of diversification, and reflect the investor's tolerance for risk, return objectives, time horizon, and other pertinent constraints, including tax position, liquidity needs, legal situations, and unique circumstances.






The word "portfolio" comes from the Latin folium, meaning to "carry leaves" (as in papers). Stock and bond certificates were once only issued in paper form, from which this terminology was adopted. Portfolio is also used to describe an artist's collection of works, for similar reasoning.


   Managing a Portfolio  

You may think of an investment portfolio as a pie that's been divided into pieces of varying wedge-shaped sizes, each piece representing a different asset class and/or type of investment. Investors aim to construct a well-diversified portfolio to achieve a risk-return portfolio allocation that is appropriate for their level of risk tolerance. Although stocks, bonds, and cash are generally viewed as a portfolio's core building blocks, you may grow a portfolio with many different types of assets—including real estate, gold stocks, various types of bonds, paintings, and other art collectibles.












 Investopedia / Carla Tardi



The sample portfolio allocation pictured above is for an investor with a low tolerance for risk. In general, a conservative strategy tries to protect a portfolio's value by investing in lower-risk securities. In the example, you'll see that a full 50% is allocated to bonds, which might contain high-grade corporates and government bonds, including municipals (munis).



The 20% stock allocation could comprise blue-chip or large-cap equities, and 30% of short-term investments might include cash, certificates of deposit (CDs), and high-yield savings accounts.






Most investment professionals agree that, though it does not guarantee against loss, diversification is a key component for reaching long-range financial goals while minimizing risk.


   Types of Portfolios  

There can be as many different types of portfolios and portfolio strategies as there are investors and money managers. You also may choose to have multiple portfolios, whose contents could reflect a different strategy or investment scenario, structured for a different need.


  A Hybrid Portfolio  

The hybrid portfolio approach diversifies across asset classes. Building a hybrid portfolio requires taking positions in stocks as well as bonds, commodities, real estate, and even art. Generally, a hybrid portfolio entails relatively fixed proportions of stocks, bonds, and alternative investments. This is beneficial, because historically, stocks, bonds, and alternatives have exhibited less than perfect correlations with one another.


  A Portfolio Investment  

When you use a portfolio for investment purposes, you expect that the stock, bond, or another financial asset will earn a return or grow in value over time, or both. A portfolio investment may be either strategic—where you buy financial assets with the intention of holding onto those assets for a long time; or tactical—where you actively buy and sell the asset hoping to achieve short-term gains.


  An Aggressive, Equities-Focused Portfolio  

The underlying assets in an aggressive portfolio generally would assume great risks in search of great returns. Aggressive investors seek out companies that are in the early stages of their growth and have a unique value proposition. Most of them are not yet common household names.


  A Defensive, Equities-Focused Portfolio  

A portfolio that is defensive would tend to focus on consumer staples that are impervious to downturns. Defensive stocks do well in bad times as well as in good times. No matter how bad the economy is at a given time, companies that make products that are essential to everyday life will survive.


  An Income-Focused, Equities Portfolio  

This type of portfolio makes money from dividend-paying stocks or other types of distributions to stakeholders. Some of the stocks in the income portfolio could also fit in the defensive portfolio, but here they are selected primarily for their high yields. An income portfolio should generate positive cash flow. Real estate investment trusts (REITs) are examples of income-producing investments.


  A Speculative, Equities-Focused Portfolio  

A speculative portfolio is best for investors that have a high level of tolerance for risk. Speculative plays could include initial public offerings (IPOs) or stocks that are rumored to be takeover targets. Technology or healthcare firms in the process of developing a single breakthrough product also would fall into this category. 





Impact of Risk Tolerance on Portfolio Allocations

Although a financial advisor can create a generic portfolio model for an individual, an investor's risk tolerance should significantly reflect the portfolio's content.
In contrast, a risk-tolerant investor might add some small-cap growth stocks to an aggressive, large-cap growth stock position, assume some high-yield bond exposure, and look to real estate, international, and alternative investment opportunities for their portfolio. In general, an investor should minimize exposure to securities or asset classes whose volatility makes them uncomfortable.


   Time Horizon and Portfolio Allocation  

Similar to risk tolerance, investors should consider how long they have to invest when building a portfolio. In general, investors should be moving toward a conservative asset allocation as their goal date approaches, to protect the portfolio's earnings up to that point.



For example, a conservative investor might favor a portfolio with large-cap value stocks, broad-based market index funds, investment-grade bonds, and a position in liquid, high-grade cash equivalents.



Take, for example, an investor saving for retirement who's planning to leave the workforce in five years. Even if that investor is comfortable investing in stocks and riskier securities, they might want to invest a larger portion of the portfolio in more conservative assets such as bonds and cash, to help protect what has already been saved. Conversely, an individual just entering the workforce may want to invest their entire portfolio in stocks, as they may have decades to invest, and the ability to ride out some of the market's short-term volatility.




How Do You Create a Financial Portfolio?
Building an investment portfolio requires more effort than the passive, index investing approach. First, you need to identify your goals, risk tolerance, and time horizon. Then, research and select stocks or other investments that fit within those parameters. Regular monitoring and updating is often required, along with entry and exit points for each position. Rebalancing requires selling some holdings and buying more of others so that most of the time your portfolio’s asset allocation matches your strategy, risk tolerance, and desired level of returns. Despite the extra effort required, defining and building a portfolio can increase your investing confidence and give you control over your finances.




What Does a Good Portfolio Look Like?
A good portfolio will depend on your investment style, goals, risk tolerance, and time horizon. Generally speaking, a good degree of diversification is recommended regardless of the portfolio type in order to not hold all of your eggs in one basket.




How Do You Measure a Portfolio's Risk?
A portfolio's standard deviation of returns (or variance) is often used as a proxy of overall portfolio risk. The standard deviation calculation is not merely a weighted average of the individual assets' standard deviations - it must also account for the covariance among the different holdings. For a 2-asset portfolio, the standard deviation calculation is:σp= (w12σ12 + w22σ22 + 2w1w2Cov1,2)1/2


   The Bottom Line  

A portfolio is a cornerstone of investing in the markets. A portfolio is comprised of the various positions in stocks, bonds, and other assets held, and is viewed as one cohesive unit. The portfolio components, therefore, must work together to serve the investor's financial goals, constrained by their risk tolerance and time horizon. Portfolios can be constructed to achieve various strategies, from index replication to income generation to capital preservation. Regardless of the strategy, diversification is seen as a good way to reduce risk without sacrificing the portfolio's expected return.
What Is Portfolio Runoff?  

Portfolio runoff means assets with a finite term are not replaced as they mature.



When the principal invested in a fixed-income security with a set maturity is repaid, the investor must decide whether to reinvest it. When the proceeds from matured bonds are not reinvested, a portfolio can be said to be in runoff.





Key Takeaways

Portfolio runoff describes a decline in fixed-term investment assets.Portfolio runoff can occur when proceeds from maturing fixed-term securities are not reinvested.Investment returns decline over time in a portfolio runoff as the asset base generating returns shrinks.Portfolio runoff can allow the Federal Reserve to reduce its balance sheet without selling holdings.


   Balance Sheet Runoff  

For a bank or lender, portfolio runoff can occur if it can't make new loans quickly enough to replace the repaid ones it made previously. Runoff can also occur when early prepayments are allowed or as defaults occur.






Banks can experience runoff when individuals and businesses withdraw capital to invest in other higher-paying investments, thereby reducing the bank's total capital.



In an effort to reduce portfolio runoff, some loans specify prepayment penalties. These provide additional compensation for the lender if the borrower pays off a loan before the end of its term.


   Runoff in Investment Portfolios  

Fixed-income investments like asset-backed securities (ABS) and mortgage-backed securities (MBS), usually have a fixed maturity date. For MBS, it would be based on the term of mortgages bundled to make up the security.



If cash flow from mortgage-backed securities is not reinvested, the income the portfolio generates will decline.


   Federal Reserve Actions  

The Federal Reserve bought Treasury debt and mortgage-backed securities in quantitative easing (QE) programs adopted following the 2008 financial crisis.



To start reducing its balance sheet the Fed doesn't need to sell those securities; it can merely choose not to reinvest some or all of the proceeds as the debt matures and is repaid.


   Insurance Portfolio Runoff  

Just as a fixed-income investor may choose not to reinvest coupon payments or principal repayments, a reinsurer may choose not to write new policies while waiting for those it previously wrote to expire. Its portfolio would then be in runoff.
What Is Portfolio Turnover?  

Portfolio turnover is a measure of how frequently assets within a fund are bought and sold by the managers. Portfolio turnover is calculated by taking either the total amount of new securities purchased or the number of securities sold (whichever is less) over a particular period, divided by the total net asset value (NAV) of the fund. The measurement is usually reported for a 12-month time period.





Key Takeaways

Portfolio turnover is a measure of how quickly securities in a fund are either bought or sold by the fund's managers, over a given period of time.The rate of turnover is important for potential investors to consider, as funds that have a high rate will also have higher fees to reflect the turnover costs.Funds that have a high rate usually incur capital gains taxes, which are then distributed to investors, who may have to pay taxes on those capital gains.Growth mutual funds and any mutual funds that are actively managed tend to have a higher turnover rate than passive funds.There are some scenarios in which the higher turnover rate translates to higher returns overall, thus mitigating the impact of the additional fees.


   Understanding Portfolio Turnover  

The portfolio turnover measurement should be considered by an investor before deciding to purchase a given mutual fund or similar financial instrument. That's because a fund with a high turnover rate will incur more transaction costs than a fund with a lower rate. Unless the superior asset selection renders benefits that offset the added transaction costs, a less active trading posture may generate higher fund returns.



In addition, cost-conscious fund investors should take note that the transactional brokerage fee costs are not included in the calculation of a fund's operating expense ratio and thus represent what can be, in high-turnover portfolios, a significant additional expense that reduces investment return.





100%

The turnover rate a very actively managed fund might generate, reflecting the fact that the fund's holdings are 100% different from what they were a year ago.


   Managed Funds vs. Unmanaged Funds  

The debate continues between advocates of unmanaged funds such as index funds and managed funds. S&P Dow Jones Indices, which publishes regular research on how actively managed funds perform compared to the S&P 500 index, claims that 75% of large-cap active funds underperformed the S&P 500 in the five years leading up to Dec. 31, 2020.



Meanwhile, in 2015, a separate Morningstar study concluded that index funds outperformed large-company growth funds about 68% of the time in the 10-year period ending Dec. 31, 2014.



Unmanaged funds traditionally have low portfolio turnover. Funds such as the Vanguard 500 Index fund mirror the holdings of the S&P 500, whose components infrequently are removed. The fund registered a portfolio turnover rate of 4% in 2020, 2019, and 2018, with minimal trading and transaction fees helping to keep expense ratios low.



Some investors avoid high-cost funds at all costs. By doing so, there exists the possibility that they may miss out on superior returns. Not all active funds are the same and a handful of fund houses and managers actually make a habit out of consistently beating their benchmarks after accounting for fees.



Often, the most successful active fund managers are those who keep costs down by making few tweaks to their portfolio and simply buying and holding. However, there have also been a few cases where aggressive managers have made regularly chopping and changing pay off.






Portfolio turnover is determined by taking what the fund has sold or bought—whichever number is less—and dividing it by the fund's average monthly assets for the year.


   Taxes and Turnover  

Portfolios that turn over at high rates generate large capital gains distributions. Investors focused on after-tax returns may be adversely affected by taxes levied against realized gains.



Consider an investor that continually pays an annual tax rate of 30% on distributions made from a mutual fund earning 10% per year. The individual is foregoing investment dollars that could be retained from participation in low transactional funds with a low turnover rate. An investor in an unmanaged fund that sees an identical 10% annual return does so largely from unrealized appreciation.






Index funds should not have a turnover rate higher than 20% to 30% since securities should only be added or removed from the fund when the underlying index makes a change in its holdings; a rate higher than 30% suggests the fund is poorly managed.


   Example of Portfolio Turnover  

If a portfolio begins one year at $10,000 and ends the year at $12,000, determine the average monthly assets by adding the two together and dividing by two to get $11,000. Next, assume the various purchases totaled $1,000 and the various sales totaled $500. Finally, divide the smaller amount—buys or sales—by the average amount of the portfolio.



For this example, the sales represent a smaller amount. Therefore, divide the $500 sales amount by $11,000 to get the portfolio turnover. In this case, the portfolio turnover is 4.54%.
What Is Portfolio Variance?  

Portfolio variance is a measurement of risk, of how the aggregate actual returns of a set of securities making up a portfolio fluctuate over time. This portfolio variance statistic is calculated using the standard deviations of each security in the portfolio as well as the correlations of each security pair in the portfolio.





Key Takeaways

Portfolio variance is a measure of a portfolio’s overall risk and is the portfolio’s standard deviation squared.Portfolio variance takes into account the weights and variances of each asset in a portfolio as well as their co-variances.A lower correlation between securities in a portfolio results in a lower portfolio variance.Portfolio variance (and standard deviation) define the risk-axis of the efficient frontier in modern portfolio theory (MPT).












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Understanding Portfolio Variance  

Portfolio variance looks at the co-variance or correlation co-efficients for the securities in a portfolio. Generally, a lower correlation between securities in a portfolio results in a lower portfolio variance.



Portfolio variance is calculated by multiplying the squared weight of each security by its corresponding variance and adding twice the weighted average weight multiplied by the co-variance of all individual security pairs.



Modern portfolio theory says that portfolio variance can be reduced by choosing asset classes with a low or negative correlation, such as stocks and bonds, where the variance (or standard deviation) of the portfolio is the x-axis of the efficient frontier.


   Formula and Calculation of Portfolio Variance  

The most important quality of portfolio variance is that its value is a weighted combination of the individual variances of each of the assets adjusted by their co-variances. This means that the overall portfolio variance is lower than a simple weighted average of the individual variances of the stocks in the portfolio.



The formula for portfolio variance in a two-asset portfolio is as follows:



Portfolio variance = w12σ12 + w22σ22 + 2w1w2Cov1,2



Where:



w1 = the portfolio weight of the first assetw2 = the portfolio weight of the second assetσ1 = the standard deviation of the first assetσ2 = the standard deviation of the second assetCov1,2 = the co-variance of the two assets, which can thus be expressed as p(1,2)σ1σ2, where p(1,2) is the correlation co-efficient between the two assets






The portfolio variance is equivalent to the portfolio standard deviation squared.



As the number of assets in the portfolio grows, the terms in the formula for variance increase exponentially. For example, a three-asset portfolio has six terms in the variance calculation, while a five-asset portfolio has 15.


   Portfolio Variance and Modern Portfolio Theory  

Modern portfolio theory (MPT) is a framework for constructing an investment portfolio. MPT takes as its central premise the idea that rational investors want to maximize returns while also minimizing risk, sometimes measured using volatility. Investors seek what is called an efficient frontier, or the lowest level of risk and volatility at which a target return can be achieved.



Risk is lowered in MPT portfolios by investing in non-correlated assets. Assets that might be risky on their own can actually lower the overall risk of a portfolio by introducing an investment that will rise when other investments fall. This reduced correlation can reduce the variance of a theoretical portfolio.



In this sense, an individual investment’s return is less important than its overall contribution to the portfolio, in terms of risk, return, and diversification.



The level of risk in a portfolio is often measured using standard deviation, which is calculated as the square root of the variance. If data points are far away from the mean, then the variance is high, and the overall level of risk in the portfolio is high as well. Standard deviation is a key measure of risk used by portfolio managers, financial advisors, and institutional investors. Asset managers routinely include standard deviation in their performance reports.


   Example of Portfolio Variance  

For example, assume there is a portfolio that consists of two stocks. Stock A is worth $50,000 and has a standard deviation of 20%. Stock B is worth $100,000 and has a standard deviation of 10%. The correlation between the two stocks is 0.85. Given this, the portfolio weight of Stock A is 33.3% and 66.7% for Stock B. Plugging in this information to the formula, the variance is calculated to be:



Variance = (33.3%^2 × 20%^2) + (66.7%^2 × 10%^2) + (2 × 33.3% × 20% × 66.7% × 10% × 0.85) = 1.64%



Variance is not a particularly easy statistic to interpret on its own, so most analysts calculate the standard deviation, which is simply the square root of variance. In this example, the square root of 1.64% is 12.81%.




What is portfolio variance?
Portfolio variance measures the risk in a given portfolio, based on the variance of the individual assets that make up the portfolio. The portfolio variance is equal to the portfolio’s standard deviation squared.




How is variance used in constructing a portfolio?
Most portfolio managers seek to minimize risk and maximize value, along the lines of modern portfolio theory (MPT). The greater the variance in the portfolio indicates the greater the variance of the individual assets, and hence the greater the risk. Portfolio managers thus seek to reduce risk by incorporating assets with low correlations, meaning there is little relationship in the movement of the assets in the portfolio.




Where does standard deviation fit in?
Most portfolio analysts focus on the standard deviation of the portfolio as a whole to get the best picture of the range of outcomes in the portfolio. Standard deviation is the square root of the variance and provides a more realistic look at the level of risk of the portfolio. The higher the standard deviation, the more volatile a portfolio is likely to be, and vice versa.


   The Bottom Line  

Variance is a statistical measure of the volatility or risk of a portfolio and the individual securities in it. Variance itself is not the main number to pay attention to, but rather its standard deviation, which is the square root of a portfolio’s variance. The higher the standard deviation, the more risk the portfolio is carrying, while the opposite is true for a low standard deviation.



Standard deviation is in turn a factor of the variance and correlation of the securities in a portfolio. If the standard deviation is deemed too high or risky, the portfolio manager can adjust their holdings to incorporate lower correlation assets in the portfolio and potentially lower the standard deviation or risk of the portfolio.
What Is a Position Trader?  

A position trader buys an investment for the long term in the expectation that it will appreciate in value. This type of trader is less concerned with short-term fluctuations in price and the news of the day unless they alter the trader's long term view of the position.



Position traders might be seen as the opposite of day traders. They do not trade actively, with most placing fewer than 10 trades in a year.


   Understanding the Position Trader  

Position traders are, by definition, trend followers. Their core belief is that once a trend starts, it is likely to continue for some time.





Key Takeaways

Position traders are trend followers.They identify a trend and an investment that will benefit from it, then buy and hold the investment until the trend peaks.The successful position trader identifies the right entry and exit prices in advance and controls risk using stop-loss orders.



A distinction can be made between position traders and buy-and-hold investors, who are classified as passive investors and hold their positions for even longer periods than do position traders. The buy-and-hold investor is building a portfolio of assets for a long-term goal, such as retirement. The position trader has spotted a trend, made a buy based on that trend, and is waiting for it to peak in order to sell.



This trading philosophy seeks to exploit the bulk of a trend's upwards move. As such, it is the polar opposite of day trading which seeks to take advantage of short-term market fluctuations. In between these two are the swing traders, who might hold an investment for a few weeks or months because they believe it will soon see a price pop.


  Tactics for Position Traders  

To be successful, a position trader has to identify the right entry and exit prices for the asset and have a plan in place to control risk, usually via a stop-loss level.






A day trader buys and sells within hours or minutes. A position trader buys and holds until a trend peaks. A buy-and-hold investor buys for the long term.



Position traders may use technical analysis, fundamental analysis, or a combination of both to make their trading decisions. They also rely on macroeconomic factors, general market trends, and historical price patterns to select investments which they believe are about to go higher.



A big advantage of position trading is that it doesn't take a lot of time. Once a trade has been initiated and safeguards have been implemented it's a matter of waiting for the desired outcome.



The main risk is that minor fluctuations that a trader chooses to ignore can unexpectedly turn into trend reversals. Another drawback is that it ties up money for a prolonged period of time, possibly causing opportunity costs.


  Is Position Trading for You?  

All investors and traders must match their trading styles with their personal goals, and each style has its pros and cons.



The first consideration is the reason you are investing in the first place. Are you building a nest egg for the future? Do you plan to make a living by trading? Or do you simply enjoy dabbling in the market and want to own a piece of a company? And how much time do you want to devote each week or each day to tracking your portfolio?



Position trading is ideally suited to a bull market with a strong trend. It doesn't lend itself easily to a bear market. In a period in which the market is flat, moving sideways, and just wiggling around, day trading might have the advantage.
What Is Positive Correlation?  

A positive correlation is a relationship between two variables that move in tandem—that is, in the same direction. A positive correlation exists when one variable decreases as the other variable decreases, or one variable increases while the other increases. Because these two different variables move in the same direction, they theoretically are influenced by the same external forces.





Key Takeaways

A positive correlation is a relationship between two variables that tend to move in the same direction.A positive correlation exists when one variable tends to decrease as the other variable decreases, or one variable tends to increase when the other increases.In finance, correlations are used to describe how individual stocks move with respect to the wider market.Beta is a common measure of market correlation, usually using the S&P 500 index as a benchmark.A beta of 1.0 describes a stock that is perfectly correlated with the S&P 500. Values higher than 1.0 describe stocks that are more volatile than the S&P 500, while lower values describe stocks that are less volatile.












Investopedia / Ellen Lindner


   Understanding Positive Correlation  

A perfectly positive correlation means that 100% of the time, the variables in question move together by the exact same percentage and direction. A positive correlation can be seen between the demand for a product and the product's associated price. In situations where the available supply stays the same, the price will rise if demand increases.



Additionally, gains or losses in certain markets may lead to similar movements in associated markets. As the price of fuel rises, the prices of airline tickets also rise. Since airplanes require fuel to operate, an increase in this cost is often passed to the consumer, leading to a positive correlation between fuel prices and airline ticket prices.



A positive correlation does not guarantee growth or benefit. Instead, it is used to denote any two or more variables that move in the same direction together, so when one increases, so does the other. The existence of a correlation does not necessarily indicate a causal relationship between variables.



Correlation is a form of dependency, where a shift in one variable means a change is likely in the other, or that certain known variables produce specific results. A general example can be seen within complementary product demand. If the demand for vehicles rises, so will the demand for vehicular-related products and services, such as tires. An increase in one area has an effect on complementary industries.



In some situations, positive psychological responses can cause positive changes within an area. This can be demonstrated within the financial markets, in cases where general positive news about a company leads to a higher stock price.





Correlation vs. Causation

Correlation among variables does not necessarily imply causation.


   Measuring Positive Correlation  

In statistics, a perfect positive correlation is represented by the correlation coefficient value +1.0, while 0 indicates no correlation, and -1.0 indicates a perfect inverse (negative) correlation.



Positive correlation may also be easily identified by graphically depicting a data set using a scatterplot. Each point on a scatterplot represents one sample item at the intersection of the x-axis variable and y-axis variable. A positive correlation on a scatterplot is evidenced by an upward trending series of points that show that as the x-axis variable increases, so does the y-axis variable.



When statistically analyzing positive correlation, it is important to understand the dataset's p-value. P-value is the statistical measurement of how statistically significant the findings are. In general, a higher p-value indicates there is greater evidence that two data points are more strongly correlated.


   Positive Correlation in Finance  

A simple example of positive correlation involves the use of an interest-bearing savings account with a set interest rate. The more money that is added to the account, whether through new deposits or earned interest, the more interest that can be accrued. Similarly, a rise in the interest rate will correlate with a rise in interest generated, while a decrease in the interest rate causes a decrease in actual interest accrued.



Investors and analysts also look at how stock movements correlate with one another and with the broader market. Most stocks have a correlation between each other's price movements somewhere in the middle of the range, with a coefficient of 0 indicating no relationship whatsoever between the two securities.



A stock in the online retail space, for example, likely has little correlation with the stock of a tire and auto body shop, while two similar retail companies will see a higher correlation. This is because businesses that have very different operations will produce different products and services using different inputs. Each of these companies face different risks, opportunities, and operational challenges.


  Positive Correlation and Diversification  

Modern portfolio theory is heavily rooted in diversification, the concept that an investor should hold assets that are widely unrelated to reduce portfolio-wide risk. This flies in the face of positive correlation; investing theory usually states that investors should be wary of widespread positive correlation within their portfolio.



For most investors, an ideal investing strategy is to avoid positive correlation between assets and asset classes. Though every individual should evaluate their own investing strategy, holding assets with positive correlation tends to increase the risk of loss.


   Beta and Correlation  

Beta is a common measure of how correlated an individual stock's price is with the broader market, often using the S&P 500 index as a benchmark. If a stock has a beta of 1.0, it indicates that its price activity is strongly correlated with the market.



A stock with a beta of 1.0 has a systematic risk, but the beta calculation can’t detect any unsystematic risk. Adding a stock to a portfolio with a beta of 1.0 doesn’t add any risk to the portfolio, but it also doesn’t increase the likelihood that the portfolio will provide an excess return.



A beta of less than 1.0 means that the security is theoretically less volatile than the market, meaning the portfolio is less risky with the stock included than without it. For example, utility stocks often have low betas because they tend to move more slowly than market averages.



A beta that is greater than 1.0 indicates that the security's price is theoretically more volatile than the market. For example, if a stock's beta is 1.2, it is assumed to be 20% more volatile than the market. Technology stocks and small caps tend to have higher betas than the market benchmark. This indicates that adding the stock to a portfolio will increase the portfolio’s risk, but also increase its expected return.



Some stocks even have negative betas. A beta of -1.0 means that the stock is inversely correlated to the market benchmark as if it were an opposite, mirror image of the benchmark’s trends. Put options or inverse ETFs are designed to have negative betas, but there are a few industry groups, like gold miners, where a negative beta is also common.





Beta

A beta of +1.0 indicates a stock that moves in the same direction as the rest of the market. A beta of -1.0 indicates that a stock moves opposite to the rest of the market.


   Positive Correlation vs. Negative Correlation  

Negative correlation is sometimes described as inverse correlation. In statistics, positive correlation describes the relationship between two variables that change together, while an inverse correlation describes the relationship between two variables which change in opposing directions.



Examples of positive correlations occur in most people's daily lives. The more hours an employee works, for instance, the larger that employee's paycheck will be at the end of the week. The more money is spent on advertising, the more customers buy from the company.



Inverse correlations describe two factors that seesaw relative to each other. Examples include a declining bank balance relative to increased spending habits and reduced gas mileage relative to increased average driving speed. One example of an inverse correlation in the world of investments is the relationship between stocks and bonds. In theory, as stock prices rise, the bond market tends to decline, just as the bond market does well when stocks are underperforming.



It is important to understand that correlation does not necessarily imply causation. Variables A and B might rise and fall together, or A might rise as B falls, but it is not always true that the rise of one factor directly influences the rise or fall of the other. Both may be caused by an underlying third factor, such as commodity prices, or the apparent relationship between the variables might be a coincidence.



The number of people connected to the Internet, for example, has been increasing since its inception, and the price of oil has generally trended upward over the same period. This is a positive correlation, but the two factors almost certainly have no meaningful relationship. That both the population of Internet users and the price of oil have increased is explainable by a third factor, namely, general increases due to time passed.




What Is an Example of Positive Correlation?
One example of positive correlation is the relationship between employment and inflation. High levels of employment require employers to offer higher salaries in order to attract new workers, and higher prices for their products in order to fund those higher salaries. Conversely, periods of high unemployment experience falling consumer demand, resulting in downward pressure on prices and inflation.




How Do You Determine a Positive Correlation?
The most common way to determine a positive correlation is to calculate the correlation coefficient. This statistical measurement calculates the strength of the relationship between two variables.




What Does a Correlation of 1.0 Mean?
A correlation coefficient of 1.0 means that two variables have perfectly positive correlation. As one variable changes, so does the other. Though this does not mean that one variable directly impacts the outcome or changes to the other, both variables always move in tandem and are most likely highly related.




How Do You Know If a Correlation Is Strong or Weak?
The correlation between two variables can be evaluated by determining the dataset's correlation coefficient and p-value. Both measurements analyzed together demonstrate the strength of the relationship between the variables and the reliability of the data.




Does Correlation Imply Causation?
Correlation does not require causation, and it is a common logical fallacy to believe otherwise. When two variables are positively correlated, that does not necessarily mean that one variable causes changes in the other. Both variables may be influenced by an unknown third factor, or the apparent relationship between the variables might be a coincidence.


   The Bottom Line  

When two variables move in tandem, the two variables are said to have a positive correlation. Though one variable may not directly influence the other, the two variables may at least change in the same direction. Investors trying to minimize portfolio risk often try to shed positive correlation through diversification; this is done by analyzing the correlation coefficient, beta, and other statistical measurements of each of the variables.
What Is Positive Economics?  

The term positive economics refers to the objective analysis in the study of economics. Most economists look at what has happened and what is currently happening in a given economy to form their basis of predictions for the future. This investigative process is positive economics. Conversely, a normative economic study bases future predictions on value judgments.





Key Takeaways

Positive economics is an objective stream of economics that relies on facts or what is happening. Conclusions drawn from positive economics analyses can be tested and backed up by data. Positive economic theory does not provide advice or instruction.Statements based on normative economics include value judgments or what should be in the future. Positive economics and normative economics can work hand in hand when developing policy.


   Understanding Positive Economics  

The cornerstone of positive economic practice is to look at fact-based behavioral finance or economic relationships and the cause and effect interaction to develop economic theories. Behavioral economics follows a psychology-based premise that people will make rational financial choices based on the information they find around them.



Many will refer to this study as "what is" economics due to its use of fact-based determination of thought. Normative economics, then, is called the "what should have been" or "what ought to be" study.


   History of Positive Economics  

The history of positive economics dates back to the 19th century. It was during this time that the idea of "what is" and "what should be" were first identified by early economists like John Neville Keynes and John Stuart Mill.



Keynes believed that logic and methodology were imperative in the study of economics while Mill was an economist who blended economics with philosophy. Mill approached economics from data, such as the relationship between supply and demand, rather than from an approach of value perspective.



These early economists developed theories to back up their economic observations. They used factual evidence from the economic conditions to prove these theories to be true.



These ideas were later adapted by contemporary economists, such as Milton Friedman. Friedman is considered to be one of the most influential economists of the 20th century. He held a firm belief in the free market capitalistic system, and his theories became known as monetarism. Friedman was a strong opponent of monetary policy, saying that it played a big role in the Great Depression.






Although a combination of normative and positive economics helps policymakers devise solutions, positive economics is key to investment decisions because it relies on hard facts.


   Testing Positive Economic Theories  

Conclusions drawn from positive economics analyses can be verified and supported by data. For example, the prediction that more people will save money if interest rates rise would be based on positive economics because past behaviors support that theory.



This analysis is objective in nature, as opposed to normative statements and theories, which are subjective. Most of the information provided by the news media is a combination of positive and normative economic statements or assumptions.



Positive economic theory can help policymakers implement normative value judgments. For example, it can describe how the government can impact inflation by printing more money, and it can support that statement with facts and analysis of behavioral relationships between inflation and growth in the money supply. But it doesn't say how to properly enact and follow specific policies regarding inflation and money printing.



Both positive and normative economics provide a clear understanding of public policies when studied together. These theories cover both the actual and real facts and statements combined with an opinion-based analysis. When making policy decisions, it is best to understand the positive economic background of behavioral finance and the causes of events as you include normative value judgments on why things happen.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Positive Economics  

There are distinct benefits and drawbacks that are associated with positive economics. Here we list some of the main advantages and disadvantages of this stream of economics.


  Advantages  

Positive economics is based on objective data rather than opinions and value judgments. There are facts we have at our disposal to back up any of our claims. For instance, we can use historical data to determine the relationship between interest rates and consumer behavior. Higher interest rates lead consumers to stop borrowing because it means they have to spend more on interest.



Since it's based solely on facts and data, there are no value judgments in positive economics. This allows policymakers to formulate the appropriate measures necessary to tackle any economic conditions to move the economy in a certain direction. For example, the Federal Reserve can lower interest rates to prevent a recession.



Individual opinions and emotions can have a big impact on economic policies and procedures. For instance, people often make decisions in their personal financial lives based on emotions rather than facts. This can lead people to make some bad choices. But if they follow the data, they may be able to make wiser decisions with their personal economic decisions.


  Disadvantages  

Not everyone is concerned with the facts, and certain economic conditions are based on emotions. As in the example above, people often choose to overlook data when they make certain choices. Experts may suggest saving during times of economic weakness but individuals may decide they want to make a big purchase instead. In essence, it's hard to take the emotion out of economics.



Just because you have a history of data, it doesn't mean that you can come with up a fool-proof solution or conclusion. That's because economics, whether positive or normative, isn't an exact science. And there are other considerations that often come into play that can change the outcome.



Similarly, positive economics may not be a one-size-fits-all approach. For instance, policymakers often use the data to come up with a policy or solution that affects everyone differently. What works for one segment of the population doesn't affect others the same way. Raising interest rates may be necessary to help slow growth and is a boon for lenders but it doesn't bode well for borrowers, especially those who are already strapped for cash.





Pros

Is easily verifiable because it is based on objective data
Gives policymakers more power to make decisions
Allows individuals to make wiser choices with their economic and financial lives



Cons

We can't always separate our emotions from the facts
Economics isn't an exact science, so there are no fool-proof solutions or conclusions
Policies and solutions that arise from positive economics don't affect everyone the same way





   Real-World Examples of Positive Economics  

Fight for 15 is a nationwide movement to push for a $15 minimum wage on what would be considered normative economics. The stance on a $15 minimum wage is a value judgment. proponents argue that raising the minimum wage would be good while opponents argue that it would be harmful.



There has been a lot of research about minimum wage increases, but there are no definitive findings that offer broad, sweeping conclusions about whether higher minimum wages are good or bad. But there are details from certain studies that could be considered examples of positive economics.


  The Seattle Ordinance  

In 2015, Seattle passed a local ordinance to gradually increase the minimum wage for workers in the city. The move meant that all workers would earn at least $15 per hour by 2021 or sooner, depending on specific employment details. Since that time, there have been two major studies on the impact of the law.



A study by researchers from the University of California-Berkeley focuses specifically on restaurant employees. According to Cal Berkeley's study, unemployment in Seattle went from 5.7% in 2012 to 3.6% in 2016. Median annual earnings for employees increased by 13.4% over those years.



According to these researchers, employees of fast-food restaurants saw an increase in their earnings thanks to an increase in Seattle's minimum wage. This specific data is an example of positive economics, but the researchers' conclusion that the higher minimum wage was a success is not positive economics because the focus of the study was not broad or exhaustive enough to make such a finding.



Meanwhile, researchers at the University of Washington concluded that the minimum wage increase was not successful. But that conclusion is not an example of positive economics. However, some of the specific data they collected would be an example of positive economics.



For example, they discovered that when the minimum wage increased, the hours worked by low-wage employees decreased. Thus, the total payroll for low-income employees fell by roughly $125 per month following the minimum wage increase. The number of low-wage workers decreased by 1%, and hours for those still employed decreased slightly as well.



While that specific data represents positive economics, the researchers' conclusion still can be questioned because other factors not addressed in the study—such as a potential increase in higher-paying jobs—may have impacted the data.


   Positive Economics FAQs  
  What Is Positive Economics and Examples?  

Positive economics is the objective analysis of the economic study. This involves investigating what's happened versus what is happening, allowing economists to predict what will happen in the future. Positive economics is tangible, so anything that can be substantiated with a fact, such as the inflation rate, the unemployment rate, housing market statistics, and consumer spending are examples of positive economics.


  What Are the Differences Between Positive and Normative Economics?  

While positive economics is a branch of economics that relies on objective data, normative economics is based on subjective information. The latter is based on value judgments that stem from opinions and personal feelings rather than analysis. Positive economics deals in what is compared to normative economics, which relies on what economic behavior should be.


  What Is a Positive and Normative Statement?  

There are big distinctions between positive and normative statements. Positive statements are objective theories that can be tested. Normative statements, on the other hand, are subjective. They involve the use of opinions and value judgments and are often based on personal opinions.


  What Are Examples of Normative Economics?  

Normative economics is represented by anything that is subjective and value-based. This means we can use the information we have at our disposal to say what should be in the future. For instance, we can use data from earnings to say that corporations should pay more in taxes. And we can use the cost of living with current wages to make opinions on the minimum wage.



The branch of economic theory called welfare economics is the study of normative economics. The leading thinkers in this area early on were Abram Bergson and Nobel Prize-winning economist Kenneth Arrow.


   The Bottom Line  

Economics is considered an art and a science. That's because it combines the use of fact with value judgments. But there are streams of economics that separate what is happening now from what should be in the future. Positive economics is an objective branch of study that allows conclusions to be made using verifiable facts.



Normative economics, on the other hand, deals with opinions based on those facts. Although it may seem like the best option, no society truly functions on a positive economic stance. In fact, combining both positive and normative economics may be the best approach when policymakers develop new solutions.
What Is Positive Pay?  

The term positive pay refers to an automated cash-management service used by financial institutions to deter check fraud. Banks use positive pay to match checks issued by companies with those it presents for payment. Checks that are considered suspicious are sent back to the issuer for examination.



The system acts as a form of insurance against fraud, losses, and other liabilities to the bank. There is generally a charge incurred for using the positive pay system, although some banks now offer the service for a reduced fee or free.





Key Takeaways

Positive pay is a system for preventing check fraud that is offered to companies by most commercial banks.Identity thieves and fraudsters often try to create and cash counterfeit checks, and those checks could be cashed.Companies usually provide a bank with a list of the check number, dollar amount, and account number of each check.The bank compares the list to the actual checks, flags any that do not match, and notifies the company.The company then tells the bank whether or not to cash the check.


   How Does Positive Pay Work?  

Positive pay is a service provided by financial institutions to their customers. Clients enrolled in the program have special fraud detection services to protect their accounts. The system matches the date, check number, dollar amount, and account number of each check presented against a list provided by the company to protect against forged, altered, and counterfeit checks.



The payee may also be included on the list of checks. If these do not match, the bank won't clear the check. When security checks are not put in place, identity thieves and fraudsters can create counterfeit checks that may end up being honored.



When the information doesn't match the check, the bank notifies the customer through an exception report, withholding payment until the company advises the bank to either accept or reject the check. The bank can also flag the check, notify a representative at the company, and seek permission to clear the check.






Companies should thoroughly review the terms and conditions of their financial institution as banks may not be responsible for fraudulent checks.



If the company finds only a slight error or other minor problem, it can also choose to advise the bank to clear the check. If the company forgets to send a list to the bank, all checks presented that should have been included may be rejected, which could cause some financial problems.



Here's a step-by-step breakdown of the process:



The client enrolls in the program.A list of checks is provided to the bank. This list includes payees, dates, amounts, and check numbers, along with the account from which the checks are written.The bank cross-references checks that are presented for exchange against the list from the client.Checks that are validated are cashed.Those that don't match up are set aside as exception items. The bank contacts the client with details about these checks.The client notifies the bank whether to proceed or return the checks.


   Positive Pay vs. Reverse Positive Pay  

A variation on the concept of positive pay is the reverse positive pay system. This system requires the issuer to monitor the checks it writes on its own.



In the reverse positive pay system, it's the company’s responsibility to alert the bank to decline a certain check. As such, the bank provides the company with daily notifications about all presented checks and clears only those that are approved by the company.



If the company does not respond within a fairly short time, the bank will typically go ahead and cash the check(s) in question. This method is not as reliable and effective as positive pay, but it is cheaper.


   Preventing Fraud  

Digital wallets and other new forms of financial technology are changing the way people bank, which means fewer checks are being written. But check fraud still exists. In fact, the threat from check fraud hovered around 66% in 2020. Banks reported losses of about $1,500 per item. So it should come as no surprise that financial fraudsters are still finding ways to scam others out of their money using checks.



Services like the positive pay system can help prevent fraud. Companies can ensure that every check that goes through their account is properly vetted because they are matched against a list provided to the bank. Not only is this a step against fraud prevention, but it also ensures efficiency: The bank can cash or reject checks without any delays.



Any items that are deemed suspicious are held aside for further review as exception items. This means that the proper control is in place even when there are questionable documents that are presented to be cashed. Nothing goes through without the proper verification.





42%

The total percent of business-to-business transactions that were initiated through checks.


   Positive Pay Fees and Cost  

The fees associated with positive pay depend on where you bank, your relationship with the financial institution, the type of customer you are (high-net-worth retail, small business, or large corporation), and in some cases, the value of your company's net worth.



Some banks offer the service for free while others may charge their clients on a per-use basis. In these cases, banks charge a flat fee for every item they may have to verify. Still, there are other banks that offer it for a monthly service charge. These banks may offer a limit to the number of transactions they'll verify or they may provide unlimited positive pay services.



There may be other fees that come with the service on top of the costs of adding the service to your account. These can include:



Charges for additional items (if you go over the limit)Payee matching feesIssued check fees



If you're interested in the service, ask your bank or financial professional about how much it costs to enroll and whether there are any additional fees.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Positive Pay  

Just like any (additional) financial service, positive pay comes with both benefits and drawbacks. It's always a good idea to do your research, weigh the pros and cons, and ensure it makes the most sense for you.





Pros

Fraud control and prevention
May also cover ACH transactions
Avoid hassle of closing/opening accounts
Increased control and decreased loss



Cons

Time consuming
Risk of missed deadlines
Cost





  Advantages of Positive Pay  

Enrolling in and adding positive pay can provide individuals and companies with an additional layer of protection for their bank accounts. While many banks often try to do their due diligence when it comes to preventing fraud, there may be instances where bad checks fall through the cracks. Services like this can help cut back—if not prevent–check fraud.



Positive pay can provide protection against fraud associated with traditional paper checks and with automated clearing house (ACH) debit transactions. Banks may offer these services separately or in a plan that covers both.



Another benefit is that it eliminates the need to close affected accounts and open new ones. This can be cumbersome and lead to unnecessary paperwork.



Clients can assume control of their finances and accounts by enrolling in positive pay. This alleviates a third party (namely, the bank) from taking control and clearing checks that you or your business never wrote. This decreases the chance of losses.


  Disadvantages of Positive Pay  

While it does allow you, as a client, to take control of your financial affairs, there is an obvious negative. That is, you'll need more time to devote to positive pay. First, you are required to take the time to make a list to provide to the bank. You must also be available to verify any exception items that the bank may present to you.



Most banks give their clients a certain amount of time to respond to queries about exceptions and other questionable items. If you fail to respond on time, the bank may either cash or reject the check. This may obviously be a problem, especially if you wanted it to take the opposite action.



Another disadvantage is the cost. Like insurance, if you enroll in positive pay, you may be paying for something that you never end up needing. Or, you may pay for it and find that it saves you large amounts of money and time spent dealing with fraud. Whether it's a worthwhile cost will depend on your bank, your business, and your finances.




How Does Positive Pay Work?
Positive pay is a check fraud prevention tool. Checks are matched and cross-referenced with a list provided by the client, including the date, check number, dollar amount, and account number. Any suspicious items are verified with the client.




What Is a Positive Pay File?
A positive pay file is a complete list of checks that a company or other entity writes against its accounts during a certain period of time. This list is provided to the company's bank when they are enrolled in the positive pay program to prevent and eliminate check fraud.




How Expensive Is the Positive Pay Service?
The costs associated with the positive pay system depend entirely on where you bank. Other factors can also affect the fees, including your relationship with the bank, the type of client you are, and your net worth. Some banks offer the service for free while others charge monthly fees or offer it on a per-use basis.


   The Bottom Line  

Although check use is dropping, thanks to new banking technologies, check fraud continues to threaten businesses and banks. But there are ways that you can ensure your account is protected.



The positive pay system can help banks alert you to the possibility of fraudulent checks before they go through your account. When you sign up, you'll be expected to provide your bank with a list of checks you write so the bank can cash those items and hold or reject those that aren't on the list. Check the costs and fees with your bank before you enroll.
What is the Post-Money Valuation?  

Post-money valuation is a company's estimated worth after outside financing and/or capital injections are added to its balance sheet. Post-money valuation refers to the approximate market value given to a start-up after a round of financing from venture capitalists or angel investors have been completed. Valuations that are calculated before these funds are added are called pre-money valuations. The post-money valuation is equal to the pre-money valuation plus the amount of any new equity received from outside investors.


   Understanding Post-Money Valuation  

Investors such as venture capitalists and angel investors use pre-money valuations to determine the amount of equity they need to secure in exchange for any capital injection. For example, assume a company has a $100 million pre-money valuation. A venture capitalist puts $25 million into the company, creating a post-money valuation of $125 million (the $100 million pre-money valuation plus the investor's $25 million). In a very basic scenario, the investor would then have a 20% interest in the company, since $25 million is equal to one-fifth of the post-money valuation of $125 million.



The scenario above assumes that the venture capitalist and the entrepreneur are in total agreement about the pre and post-money valuations. In reality, there is a lot of negotiation, particularly when companies are small with relatively little in the way of assets or intellectual property. As private companies grow, they are better able to dictate the terms of their financing round valuations, but not all companies reach this point.


   Importance of Post-Money Valuation to Financing Rounds  

In subsequent rounds of financing of a growing private company, dilution becomes an issue. Careful founders and early investors, to the extent possible, will take care in negotiating terms that balance new equity with acceptable dilution levels. Additional equity raises may involve liquidation preferences from preferred stock. Other types of financing such as warrants, convertible notes, and stock options must be considered, if applicable, in dilution calculations.



In a new equity raise, if the pre-money valuation is greater than the last post-money valuation, it is called an "up round." A "down round" is the opposite, when pre-money valuation is lower than post-money valuation. Founders and existing investors are finely attuned to up and down round scenarios. This is because financing in a down round usually results in dilution for existing investors in real terms. As a result, financing in a down round is often seen as somewhat desperate on the part of the company. Financing in an up round, however, there is less reluctance as the company is seen as growing towards the future valuation it will hold on the open market when it eventually goes public.



There is also a situation called a flat round, where the pre-money valuation for the round and the post-money valuation of the previous round are roughly equal. As with a down round, venture capitalists usually prefer to see signs of an increasing valuation before putting in more money. (For related reading, see "Pre-Money vs. Post-Money: What's the Difference?")
What Is Post-Trade Processing?  

Post-trade processing occurs after a trade is complete. At this point, the buyer and the seller compare trade details, approve the transaction, change records of ownership, and arrange for the transfer of securities and cash. Post-trade processing is especially important in markets that are not standardized, such as the over-the-counter (OTC) markets.





Key Takeaways

Post-trade processing occurs after a trade is complete.At this point, the buyer and the seller compare trade details, approve the transaction, change records of ownership, and arrange for the transfer of securities and cash.Post-trade processing will usually include a settlement period and involve a clearing process.OTC trades that do not rely on centralized clearinghouses will need to settle their own trades, which exposes counterparty risk and settlement risk.


   How Post-Trade Processing Works  

Post-trade processing is important in that it verifies the details of a transaction. Markets and prices move fast; transactions are executed quickly, often instantaneously. Many securities trades are done over the phone; the ability for mistakes is inherent, despite traders’ skill. Increasingly trades are executed at high frequency by computers only. The chance for small mistakes to compound remains high.



Post-trade processing allows the buyer and seller of securities to root out and rectify these errors. In addition to matching the details of the buy and sell orders, post-trade processing includes shifting records of ownership and authorizing payment.


   Trade Clearing and Settlement  

After a trade is executed, the transaction enters what is known as the settlement period. During settlement, the buyer must make payment for the securities they purchased while the seller must deliver the security that was acquired. Depending on the type of security, settlement dates will vary. As an example of how settlement dates work, let's say that an investor buys shares of Amazon (AMZN) on Monday, Jan. 28, 2019. The broker will debit the investor's account for the total cost of the order immediately after its filled, but the status as a shareholder of Amazon will not be settled in the company's record books for the investor until Wednesday, Jan. 30. At that time, the investor would become a shareholder of record.



Once the trade has settled, and the funds in any sale of stock or another type of security have been credited to your account, the investor may choose to withdraw the funds, reinvest in new security or hold the amount in cash within the account. For those looking to cash out some of the profits (or what's left from a loss), check to see if your broker offers transfers to your bank account using the Automated Clearing House (ACH) or by using a wire transfer.





T+2

The settlement period for post-trade processing of stocks and several other exchange-traded assets.  In March 2017, the SEC shortened the settlement period from T+3 to T+2 days to reflect improvements in technology, increased trading volumes and changes in investment products and the trading landscape.



Clearing is the process of reconciling purchases and sales of various options, futures, or securities, as well as the direct transfer of funds from one financial institution to another. The process validates the availability of the appropriate funds, records the transfer, and in the case of securities ensures the delivery of the security to the buyer. Non-cleared trades can result in settlement risk, and if trades do not clear accounting errors will arise where real money can be lost.



An out trade is a trade that cannot be placed because it was received by an exchange with conflicting information. The associated clearinghouse cannot settle the trade because the data submitted by parties on both sides of the transaction is inconsistent or contradictory.


   Examples of Post-Trade Processing  

On the NYSE Bonds Platform, following trade completions, all Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation (DTCC) / National Securities Clearing Corporation (NSCC) Regional Interface Organization (RIO) eligible bond trades are sent to NSCC in order to match trade details of both buyers and respective sellers. Details are transmitted through the RIO.



Post-trade services have recently come to the forefront as a means for financial firms to diversify their revenue streams. Due to a combination of new regulations, the standardization of derivatives, and increased need for more complex processing measures, due to the growth of alternative assets, post-trade services are an area in which some firms have a chance to outstrip competitors.




Is Anything Being Done to Shorten Post-Trade Processing?
Yes. In Spring of 2022, the SEC announced a new proposal to shorten the clearing time for most stock trades to T+1 and solicit comment on further shortening it to same-day settlement, or T+0. If approved, the proposal anticipates an effective date around Q1 2024.




Why Does the Trade Date Differ From the Settlement Date for Stocks?
If you buy or sell shares of stock or other securities, the settlement date will often be between one and three days after the actual trade date. This is because it takes time for the post-trade processing, clearing, and settlement of the trade. Much of this has to do with older systems still in place to reconcile asset ownership and payment between exchanges, clearing firms, and brokerages.




What Kinds of Securities Currently Clear T+2? T+1?
Most stocks, ETFs, corporate bonds, municipal bonds, and spot FX trades settle T+2. Listed options and government securities clear T+1. Certificates of deposit (CDs) and commercial paper settle T+0.
What Is a Posterior Probability?  

A posterior probability, in Bayesian statistics, is the revised or updated probability of an event occurring after taking into consideration new information. The posterior probability is calculated by updating the prior probability using Bayes' theorem. In statistical terms, the posterior probability is the probability of event A occurring given that event B has occurred.





Key Takeaways

A posterior probability, in Bayesian statistics, is the revised or updated probability of an event occurring after taking into consideration new information.The posterior probability is calculated by updating the prior probability using Bayes' theorem.In statistical terms, the posterior probability is the probability of event A occurring given that event B has occurred.


   Bayes' Theorem Formula  

The formula to calculate a posterior probability of A occurring given that B occurred:


















P


(


A


∣


B


)


=




P


(


A


∩


B


)




P


(


B


)




=




P


(


A


)


×


P


(


B


∣


A


)




P


(


B


)


















where:
















A


,


B


=


Events
















P


(


B


∣


A


)


=


The probability of B occurring given that A
















is true
















P


(


A


)


 and 


P


(


B


)


=


The probabilities of A occurring
















and B occurring independently of each other







\begin{aligned}&P(A \mid B) = \frac{P(A \cap B)}{P(B)} = \frac{P(A) \times P(B \mid A)}{P(B)}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&A, B=\text{Events}\\&P(B \mid A)=\text{The probability of B occurring given that A}\\&\text{is true}\\&P(A) \text{ and }P(B)=\text{The probabilities of A occurring}\\&\text{and B occurring independently of each other}\end{aligned}


​P(A∣B)=P(B)P(A∩B)​=P(B)P(A)×P(B∣A)​where:A,B=EventsP(B∣A)=The probability of B occurring given that Ais trueP(A) and P(B)=The probabilities of A occurringand B occurring independently of each other​



The posterior probability is thus the resulting distribution, P(A|B).


   What Does a Posterior Probability Tell You?  

Bayes' theorem can be used in many applications, such as medicine, finance, and economics. In finance, Bayes' theorem can be used to update a previous belief once new information is obtained. Prior probability represents what is originally believed before new evidence is introduced, and posterior probability takes this new information into account.



Posterior probability distributions should be a better reflection of the underlying truth of a data generating process than the prior probability since the posterior included more information. A posterior probability can subsequently become a prior for a new updated posterior probability as new information arises and is incorporated into the analysis.
What Is Poverty?  

The term poverty refers to the state or condition in which people or communities lack the financial resources and essentials for a minimum standard of living. As such, their basic human needs cannot be met. People and families who live in poverty may go without proper housing, clean water, healthy food, and medical attention. Each nation may have its own criteria for determining the poverty line and counting how many of its people live in poverty. Poverty is a socioeconomic condition that is the result of multiple factors—not just income. These factors include race, sexual identity, sexual orientation, and little to no access to education, among others.





Key Takeaways

Poverty is a state or condition in which a person or community lacks the financial resources and essentials for a minimum standard of living.Poverty-stricken people and families might go without proper housing, clean water, healthy food, and medical attention.Poverty is an individual concern as well as a broader social problem.Welfare programs are used by governments to help alleviate poverty.Poverty is the result of multiple factors, not simply income.


   Understanding Poverty  

Poverty refers to the lack of adequate financial resources such that individuals, households, and entire communities don't have the means to subsist or acquire the basic necessities for a flourishing life. This means being so poor as to struggle to obtain food, clothing, shelter, and medicines.



Poverty is both an individual concern as well as a broader social problem. On the individual or household level, not being able to make ends meet can lead to a range of physical and mental issues. At the societal level, high poverty rates can be a damper on economic growth and be associated with problems like crime, unemployment, urban decay, education, and poor health.



Governments often put social welfare programs in place to help lift individuals, families, and communities out of poverty. Some countries have stronger welfare states (social safety nets) than others. For instance, the U.S. tends to be much more individualistic and shuns welfare programs. European countries, in comparison, have a much broader range of welfare programs and support for those in need.


   Aspects of Poverty  
  Poverty in the U.S.  

Poverty status in the United States is assigned to people who do not meet a certain income threshold, which is set by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Poverty rates in the United States, or the percentage of the U.S. population living in poverty, are calculated by the U.S. Census Bureau.



When measuring poverty, the U.S. Census Bureau excludes the following people:



Institutionalized peoplePeople living in military quartersPeople living in college dormitoriesIndividuals under the age of 15






According to the latest Census, 37.9 million people in the U.S. lived in poverty in 2021, up from 37.2 million in 2020.



Each year, the Census Bureau updates its poverty threshold statistics. The table below shows the 2022 income thresholds for those in poverty. Each column represents the number of people living in a household under the age of 18.



In 2022, the poverty income threshold for a family of four with two children under the age of 18 is $29,678 per year.In 2022, for two people over age 65 with no children under 18, the poverty threshold comes in at $17,689 per year.We can see that the income level for the poverty threshold increases for families with more children under 18.



The poverty thresholds, as well as the number of children under the age of 18 in a home, are important because they help determine how government aid can be allocated, such as food assistance and medical care. The measurement for those in poverty uses pretax income or income before taxes are taken out by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).






  Global Poverty  

Poverty has decreased in developed countries since the Industrial Revolution. Increased production reduced the cost of goods, making them more affordable, while advancements in agriculture increased crop yields, as well as food production.



The international poverty line is a monetary threshold under which an individual is considered to be living in poverty. This figure is calculated by taking the poverty threshold from each country—given the value of the goods needed to sustain one adult—and converting it into U.S. dollars. The current international poverty line is $2.15 per day.



Many people around the globe still struggle to make ends meet. According to the World Bank, an estimated 719 million people lived in extreme poverty—defined as surviving on less than the $2.15 per day line—by the end of 2020.



It's estimated that more than 40% of the world's population lives in poverty, with the United States scoring the highest among developed nations. According to a report from Frontiers, communities of color are more susceptible to poverty because of "racist notions of racial inferiority and frequent denial of the structural forms of racism and classism" globally and within the U.S.






COVID-19 was responsible for plunging roughly 100 million more people into extreme poverty, according to the World Bank.


  Poverty and Children  

The impact of poverty on children is substantial. Children who grow up in poverty typically suffer from severe and frequent health problems; infants born into poverty have an increased chance of low birth weight, which can lead to physical and mental disabilities.



In certain developing countries, poverty-stricken infants are nine times more likely to die in their first month compared to babies born in high-income countries. Those who live may have hearing and vision problems.



Children in poverty tend to miss more school due to sickness and endure more stress at home. Homelessness is particularly hard on children because they often have little to no access to healthcare and lack proper nutrition, which often results in frequent health issues.


   What Causes Poverty?  

Poverty is a difficult cycle to break and often passes from one generation to the next. It is often determined by socioeconomic status, ethnicity, gender, and geography. Many people are born into poverty and have little hope of overcoming it. Others may fall into poverty because of negative economic conditions, natural disasters, or surging living costs, as well as drug addiction, depression, and mental health issues.



Access to good schools, healthcare, electricity, clean drinking water, and other critical services remains elusive for many and is often determined by socioeconomic status, gender, ethnicity, and geography. Other root causes of poverty include:



Limited to no job growth
Poor infrastructure
Conflict and war
High cost of living
Social barriers
Lack of government support



For those able to move out of poverty, progress is often temporary. Economic shocks, food insecurity, and climate change threaten their gains and may force them back into poverty.



Typical consequences of poverty include alcohol and substance abuse, little to no access to education, poor housing and living conditions, and increased levels of disease. Heightened poverty is likely to cause increased tensions in society as inequality increases. These issues often lead to rising crime rates in communities affected by poverty.


   Discrimination and Poverty  

As noted above, poverty isn't simply related to income levels. In fact, there are a number of factors that can push people into or below the poverty line. Discrimination is just one of those issues. Put simply, people are prevented from living with and enjoying certain rights because of who they are. Here's why.



In some cases, governments may put certain laws and regulations that prevent certain individuals or communities from accessing services, such as healthcare, education, or social services. They may also be denied access to the labor market and/or housing, which can prevent them from reaching a suitable standard of living. In other cases, deep-rooted societal beliefs can isolate individuals, families, and entire communities.



Some of the most common groups of people who may experience this type of discrimination include (but aren't limited to):



People living with HIV/AIDS
Black, Indigenous, and People of Color
Women, including single mothers
Members of the LGBTQ+ community



According to statistics from the Williams Institute at the UCLA School of Law, poverty rates among members of the LGBTQ+ community have dropped since the COVID-19 pandemic. But rates are still higher than those who don't identify as LGBTQ+. The most recent report showed that:



17% of LGBT people in the U.S. lived in poverty in 2021 compared to 12% in non-LGBT communities21% of transgender people lived in poverty in the U.S. in 2021 compared to 20% of cisgender bisexual women26% of LGBT families with children experienced poverty in 2021



The report also indicated that LGBTQ+ people of color—notably, "Black, Latinx/Hispanic, Native Hawaiian/ Pacific Islander (NH/PI), American Indian/Alaskan Native (AI/AN), and Multiracial people"—are more likely to experience poverty compared to White or Asian Americans.


   How Poverty Is Measured  

Poverty is commonly measured using income thresholds in many countries, including the United States. Centralized bodies like the Census Bureau collect data and update the information on an annual basis based on inflation. This information, which is reported through the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U), generally includes income thresholds compiled from different sizes and types of families/households. Each family member in a household that falls under the threshold is considered to be in poverty, according to the Census Bureau.



Certain types of individuals are not included in the count as their level of poverty cannot be determined. These groups include:



People within certain group settings like prisons and nursing homesIndividuals living in military barracksThose living in college dormsPeople under the age of 15 whose income cannot be determined



Keep in mind that using income thresholds is just one way that countries measure poverty. But there are other ways to determine who lives above and below the poverty line. Some countries may use an absolute figure like the one used by the World Bank. As noted above, the organization determined that people who live below the $2.15-per-day limit are in poverty.


   How to Reduce Poverty  

The United Nations and the World Bank are major advocates of reducing world poverty. The World Bank has an ambitious target of reducing poverty to less than 3% of the global population by 2030. Some of the actionable plans to eliminate poverty include the following:



Installing wells that provide access to clean drinking waterEducating farmers on how to produce more foodConstructing shelter for those in needBuilding schools to educate disadvantaged communitiesProviding enhanced access to better healthcare services by building medical clinics and hospitals



For poverty to be eradicated as the World Bank sets out to do, communities, governments, and corporations need to collaborate to implement strategies that improve living conditions for the world’s poor. Among these strategies may include boosting socioeconomic conditions, fighting and eliminating systemic racism, establishing minimum wages that align with the cost of living, providing paid leave, and promoting pay equity among other things.




What Countries Have the Highest Poverty Rates?
The countries with the highest poverty rates include South Sudan (82.30%), Equatorial Guinea (76.80%), Madagascar (70.70%), Guinea Bissau (69.30%), and Eritrea (69.00%).




Which States Have the Highest Poverty Rates?
As of 2023, the states with the highest poverty rates were Mississippi (18.80%), Louisiana (17.40%), New Mexico (16.20%), Arkansas (14.70%), and Alabama (14.60%).




Can Poverty Be Solved?
The answer to this question is complicated and nuanced. If it were easy or obvious, poverty would no longer be such a big issue. Social welfare programs and private philanthropy are ways to provide for those in poverty, along with access to essentials like clean water, good food, and adequate healthcare. However, more is needed. Programs that encourage impoverished individuals to obtain skills, jobs, and education are also important as a longer-term cure.


   The Bottom Line  

Poverty is defined as the state or condition where people and communities cannot meet a minimum standard of living because they lack the proper resources. These include (but aren't limited to) financial resources, basic healthcare and education, clean drinking water, and infrastructure. Living in the socioeconomic condition of poverty is a result of multiple factors not simply including race, sexual identity, sexual orientation, and access to education, among others. Organizations like the United Nations and the World Bank, which say that poverty will continue to grow well beyond 2030, urge nations to fight poverty by implementing policies and regulations that can drastically improve the quality of living for all communities.
What Is a Poverty Trap?  

A poverty trap is a mechanism that makes it very difficult for people to escape poverty. A poverty trap is created when an economic system requires a significant amount of capital to escape poverty. When individuals lack this capital, they may also find it difficult to acquire it, creating a self-reinforcing cycle of poverty.





Key Takeaways

A poverty trap refers to an economic system in which it is difficult to escape poverty.A poverty trap is not merely the absence of economic means. It is created due to a mix of factors, such as access to education and healthcare, working together to keep an individual or family in poverty.Noted economist Jeffrey Sachs has made the case that public and private investments need to work in concert to eradicate the poverty trap.


   Understanding Poverty Traps  

Many factors contribute to creating a poverty trap, including limited access to credit and capital markets, extreme environmental degradation (which depletes agricultural production potential), corrupt governance, capital flight, poor education systems, disease ecology, lack of public healthcare, war, and poor infrastructure.



In order to escape the poverty trap, it is argued that individuals in poverty must be given sufficient aid so that they can acquire the critical mass of capital necessary to raise themselves out of poverty. This theory helps to explain why certain aid programs that do not provide a high-enough level of support may be ineffective at raising individuals from poverty. If those in poverty do not acquire the critical mass of capital, they will simply remain dependent on aid indefinitely and regress if aid is ended.



Recent research has increasingly focused on the role of other factors, such as healthcare, in sustaining the poverty trap for a society. Researchers at the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) found that countries with poorer health conditions tend to be mired in a cycle of poverty as compared to others with similar educational attainments.



Researchers at the University of Florida in Gainesville collected economic and disease data from 83 of the world's least and most developed countries. They found that people living in areas with limited human, animal, and crop disease were able to lift themselves out of the poverty trap as compared to people who lived in areas with rampant disease.


   Types of Poverty Traps  

Poverty traps can vary in their underlying causes and characteristics, but they all share the common feature of perpetuating poverty or making it difficult for individuals or communities to escape poverty. Here is an overview of the various types of poverty traps.


  Economic Poverty Traps  

Economic poverty traps are characterized by low income and limited economic opportunities. People in these traps may face challenges such as unemployment or underemployment, low wages, and lack of access to credit or financial services. This makes it difficult for them to save, invest, or escape poverty because they are often living hand-to-mouth, struggling to meet their basic needs.


  Geographic Poverty Traps  

Geographic poverty traps occur in areas that are geographically isolated or marginalized. These regions may lack essential infrastructure like roads, electricity, and clean water, making it hard for residents to access education, healthcare, and job opportunities. Limited connectivity to markets and resources can further perpetuate poverty in these areas.


  Health Poverty Traps  

Health-related poverty traps are linked to poor health and inadequate healthcare access. Individuals in these traps often face chronic illnesses, lack of preventive care, or insufficient treatment options. Medical expenses can drain their limited resources, and ill health can limit their ability to work and earn a stable income.


  Educational Poverty Traps  

Educational poverty traps stem from inadequate access to quality education. High dropout rates, lack of schools, and limited educational opportunities hinder individuals' ability to acquire skills and knowledge necessary for better employment prospects. Without education, they may remain trapped in low-paying, low-skilled jobs.


  Social Poverty Traps  

Social factors such as discrimination, social exclusion, or limited social support networks can create social poverty traps. These factors may restrict individuals' access to resources, opportunities, and social mobility. Discrimination based on factors like race, gender, or ethnicity can perpetuate inequality and poverty, and social factors can perpetuate other types of poverty traps listed within this section.


  Generational Poverty Traps  

Generational poverty traps occur when poverty is passed down from one generation to the next within families. Children born into impoverished households may face limited access to quality education, healthcare, and proper nutrition. These individuals may also face barriers or limitations based on debts or financial limitations passed down from generation to generation.


  Institutional Poverty Traps  

Institutional poverty traps are related to weak governance, corruption, and ineffective institutions. Inadequate rule of law, lack of property rights protection, and rampant corruption can stifle economic growth, discourage entrepreneurship, and hinder access to essential services like healthcare and education. These institutional weaknesses can keep individuals and communities in poverty.






Poverty traps are often the subject of political debate; some believe the government has a responsibility to alleviate poverty traps, while others believe markets should evolve on their own.


   The Public and Private Role in Addressing the Poverty Trap  

In his book The End of Poverty: Economic Possibilities for Our Time, Jeffrey Sachs recommends that, as a way of combating the poverty trap, aid agencies should function as venture capitalists that fund startup companies.



Sachs proposes that, just like any other startup, developing nations should receive the full amount of aid necessary for them to begin to reverse the poverty trap. He points out that the extremely poor lack six major kinds of capital: human capital, business capital, infrastructure, natural capital, public institutional capital, and knowledge capital.



Sachs added in his book:



"The poor start with a very low level of capital per person, and then find themselves trapped in poverty because the ratio of capital per person actually falls from generation to generation. The amount of capital per person declines when the population is growing faster than capital is being accumulated... The question for growth in per capita income is whether the net capital accumulation is large enough to keep up with population growth."



Sachs postulates that the public sector should concentrate its efforts on investing in:



Human capital—health, education, nutritionInfrastructure—roads, power, water and sanitation, environmental conservationNatural capital—conservation of biodiversity and ecosystemsPublic institutional capital—a well-run public administration, judicial system, police forceParts of knowledge capital—scientific research for health, energy, agriculture, climate, ecology



Business capital investments, Sachs says, should be the domain of the private sector, which he claims would more efficiently use the funding to develop the profitable enterprises necessary to sustain growth enough to lift an entire population and culture out of poverty.


   Solutions to Overcome Poverty Traps  

With Sachs context in mind, let's dig deeper into potential solutions that could overtake poverty traps. Bear in mind that this list is not meant to be exhaustive; in addition, this list is meant to be a high-level overview of potential strategies whose success may ebb and flow over time.


  Invest in Education  

Investing in education is often cited as being crucial for breaking the poverty cycle. Quality education, with well-trained teachers, updated curriculum, and modern facilities, ensures that children have the skills and knowledge needed for better job opportunities. Equitable distribution of educational opportunities, particularly for marginalized groups, is vital for addressing inequality. Additionally, vocational and technical training programs prepare individuals for skilled employment, which can be a pathway out of poverty via better job opportunities.


  Improve Healthcare Access  

Access to affordable healthcare services is an essential poverty reduction strategy. Establishing and maintaining healthcare facilities, especially in underserved areas, guarantees access to medical services. Preventive care measures such as immunizations and health education reduce the prevalence of diseases and lower healthcare costs in the long run. Expanding health insurance coverage is crucial to protect low-income individuals and families from the financial burden of healthcare expenses.


  Develop Infrastructure  

Investing in basic infrastructure like roads, electricity, and water supply improves living conditions and stimulates economic activity. This is especially true in remote or marginalized areas that may have a lack of physical accessibility for resources and access. This development facilitates growth to markets, education, healthcare, and professional opportunities.


  Promote Credit Accessibility  

Poverty traps may be alleviated by increasing financing and credit accessibility. Microfinance institutions can provide small loans to aspiring entrepreneurs and small business owners who lack access to traditional banking services. These loans enable individuals to invest in income-generating activities and improve their economic prospects. In addition, expanding access to formal banking services, savings accounts, and insurance products for marginalized populations promotes financial inclusion.


  Promote Social Inclusion  

Promoting gender equality and women's empowerment is not only a human rights issue but also a key driver of poverty reduction. When women have equal access to education, economic opportunities, and leadership roles, entire communities can benefit. Effective anti-discrimination laws and policies can also protect the rights of minority groups and promote social inclusion.


  Improve Governance and Anti-Corruption  

Transparent governance, the rule of law, and accountability are crucial for reducing corruption and ensuring equitable resource allocation. Independent anti-corruption agencies can investigate and prosecute corruption cases, discouraging corrupt practices. In addition, advocacy efforts push for policy changes and reforms at various levels to address the root causes of poverty and promote equity and inclusion.






According to World Bank Group, the number of individuals in extreme poverty rose to over 700 million people during the pandemic and may be around 685 million at the end of 2022. During the pandemic, the global extreme poverty rate reached 9.3%.


   Example of a Poverty Trap  

One of the most important considerations in studying the poverty trap is the amount of government aid necessary to lift a family out of their present conditions.



Consider the case of a family of four, made up of parents and two children who are below legal working age. The family has an annual income of $24,000, with the parents working in jobs that pay $10 per hour. According to the latest federal poverty guidelines, a family of four is considered to be poor if its income is less than $30,000.



In a simple case, let us assume that the government begins handing out aid amounting to $1,000 per month. This raises the family's annual income to $36,000. While it is capped at $1,000, the government aid decreases in proportion to increases in the family's income. For example, if the family's earnings increase by $500 to $2500 per month, government aid reduces by $500. The parents would have to work an extra 50 hours in order to make up for the shortfall.



The increase in working hours comes at an opportunity and leisure cost to the parents. For example, they might end up spending less time with their children or may have to hire babysitters for the time that they are out of the home. The extra hours also mean that the parents will not have the leisure to upgrade their skill-sets for a better paying job.



The aid amount also does not take into account living conditions for the family. Because they are poor, the family lives in one of the most dangerous neighborhoods in the city and does not have access to proper healthcare facilities. In turn, crime or susceptibility to disease could drive up their average monthly spending, making an increase in the family's income effectively useless.


   Real-World Example  

In the real world, the case of Rwanda, a country wracked by genocide and civil war until recently, is often held up as an example of a nation that tackled the poverty trap by identifying factors beyond income. The African country focused on healthcare and insurance to increase the average daily calorie intake.



However, certain researchers charge the country's government with reducing the measurement threshold in order to make Rwanda rate better on poverty statistics.




What Causes Poverty Traps?
There are several factors that make it difficult for people to escape poverty. A lack of access to capital is a major contributor to poverty traps as is poor education, infrastructure, and healthcare. 




Why Is It So Hard to Get Out of Poverty?
Many of the things that can help pull people out of poverty require the one thing poor people don't have: money. For example, without money, it’s difficult to get a decent education and acquire new skills to boost job prospects and earnings potential. Spare time to address issues and boost wellbeing is also in short supply, as every hour spent not sleeping is dedicated to earning money and surviving.




How Many People in the U.S. Live in Poverty?
According to the United States Census Bureau, 37.9 million people in the U.S. lived in poverty in 2022, which represents 11.5% of the population.


   The Bottom Line  

Poverty traps are self-perpetuating cycles of poverty, where individuals or communities struggle to escape. The reasons for poverty cycles may include low income, limited access to education, healthcare, and limited economic opportunities. These factors reinforce one another, trapping people in a cycle of deprivation and hindering their ability to break free from poverty without external interventions and support. However, there are numerous ways to break poverty traps and solutions to promote economic and financial equity for all.
What Is the Power-Distance Index (PDI)?  

The power-distance index (PDI) is a measurement of the acceptance of a hierarchy of power and wealth by the individuals who make up the general population of a nation, culture, or business. Developed by Dutch social psychologist Geert Hofstede, the PDI ultimately provides insight into the extent to which regular citizens, or subordinates, accept or challenge the authority of the person or people in charge.



Hofstede’s PDI is lower in countries and organizations where authority figures work closely with subordinates. The PDI is higher in places with a strong hierarchy.


   Understanding the Power-Distance Index  

Highly structured businesses, societies, and institutions often have high indices. A high index indicates that the hierarchy is clearly defined, present, and unchallenged. 





Key Takeaways

The power-distance index measures the degree to which the members of a group or society accept the hierarchy of power and authority.PDI is a part of cultural dimensions theory, an attempt to quantify the differences in attitudes between cultures.PDI has had a substantial influence on international business training.



A low index indicates a less rigid or authoritarian system. The people in a low index society or group are willing to challenge authority and readily interact with authority figures in the expectation that they can influence decisions.


  PDI and Cultural Dimensions Theory  

The power-distance index is one component of Hofstede’s cultural dimensions theory, which was the first attempt to quantify the differences among cultures. This theory is now applied extensively in a number of fields including cross-cultural psychology, cross-cultural communication, and international business.



Driven by factor analysis, the cultural dimensions theory in its original form was based on the results of Hofstede’s global survey of the values of IBM employees. Testing and collection of the results were conducted between 1967 and 1973.



Based on these and other results, Hofstede determined that there are six distinct dimensions to every culture: power distance, uncertainty avoidance, individualism versus collectivism, short term versus long term, masculinity versus femininity, and self-restraint versus indulgence.





40

The PDI of the United States



(The original model had only four dimensions but was later expanded to six. Long-term versus short-term was added after Hofstede performed independent research in Hong Kong, and indulgence versus self-restraint was added in 2010.)


   Business and the PDI  

Hofstede's theory gained considerable notoriety because of its analysis of cultural and national differences. It has been particularly influential in the business world. With the growth of the global economy, the PDI and the factors that contribute to it have been used to foster an understanding of cultural differences and how they affect international business dealings.



The differences in perception of power seem particularly relevant during business negotiations. For example, Austria has a power distance index of approximately 11, while many Arab nations have indices of around 80. Employing Austrian business practices or management styles in an Arab country may be counterproductive, or at the very least can produce a degree of culture shock. 



The United States, by the way, has a PDI of 40.
What Is a Power of Attorney (POA)?  

The term power of attorney (POA) refers to a legal authorization that gives a designated person the power to act for someone else. As such, a POA gives the agent or attorney-in-fact the authority to act on behalf of the principal. The agent may be given broad or limited authority to make decisions about the principal's property, finances, investments, or medical care.



There are two main types of POAs, financial and health care—both of which provide the attorney-in-fact with general or limited powers.





Key Takeaways

A power of attorney is a legal document that gives one person the power to act for another person.The person who receives the authority is the agent or attorney-in-fact while the subject of the POA is the principal.The agent can have broad legal authority or limited authority to make decisions about the principal's property, finances, or medical care.The POA is often used when the principal can't be present to sign necessary legal documents for a financial transaction.A durable power of attorney remains in effect if the principal becomes ill or disabled and cannot act personally.


   How a Power of Attorney (POA) Works  

A power of attorney is a legal document that involves the agent or attorney-in-fact, and the principal. It is used in the event of a principal's temporary or permanent illness or disability, or when they can't sign necessary documents. The principal must choose a POA who they trust to handle their affairs for them. Documents can be obtained online or through a lawyer. Both parties must sign the paperwork. A third party is usually required to witness it.



Most POA documents authorize the agent to represent the principal in all property and financial matters as long as the principal’s mental state of mind is good. If the principal becomes incapable of making decisions for themselves, the agreement automatically ends.



A power of attorney can end for several reasons, such as when the principal revokes the agreement or dies, when a court invalidates it, or when the agent can no longer carry out the responsibilities outlined. In the case of a married couple, the authorization may be invalidated if the principal and the agent divorce.



There are many types of powers of attorney. A durable POA takes effect when the document is signed while a springing power of attorney comes into effect only if and when the principal becomes incapacitated. A power of attorney may also be limited to medical matters, enabling the agent to make crucial decisions on behalf of an incapacitated person.



A power of attorney for use in case of need might be considered by anyone planning for unexpected incapacitation or long-term care, no matter how remote such events appear to be. It might also be needed for someone expecting to be away from home and difficult to reach for some time.






A person who wants the power of attorney to remain in effect after the person’s health deteriorates would need to sign a durable power of attorney (DPOA).Making a power of attorney durable means that it remains in force even if the person they are representing becomes mentally or physically incapacitated. An example of this would be if the principal goes into a coma or suffers amnesia. A durable power of attorney, however, does not persist after the client's death. If the power of attorney is not designated as durable, and the client becomes mentally incapacitated, the authority is voided.


   Special Considerations  

There are many good reasons to make a power of attorney, as it ensures that someone will look after your financial affairs if you become incapacitated. You should choose a trusted family member, a proven friend, or a reputable and honest professional.



Remember, however, that signing a power of attorney that grants broad authority to an agent is very much like signing a blank check—so make sure you choose wisely and understand the laws that apply to the document.


   Types of Powers of Attorney  

The two key types of POAs are financial and health care. We outline some of the main differences between these two and highlight some of the main types of financial POAs.


  Health Care Power of Attorney (HCPOA)  

The principal can sign a durable power of attorney for health care, or health care POA (HCPOA), if they want an agent to have the power to make health-related decisions. This document also called a health care proxy, outlines the principal’s consent to give the agent POA privileges in the event of an unfortunate medical condition.



The POA for health care is legally bound to oversee medical care decisions on behalf of the principal. As such, it kicks in when the principal can no longer make health-related decisions on their own.


  Financial Power of Attorney  

The financial POA is a document that allows an agent to manage the business and financial affairs of the principal, such as signing checks, filing tax returns, mailing and depositing Social Security checks, and managing investment accounts when and if the latter becomes unable to understand or make decisions. The agent must carry out the principal’s wishes to the best of their ability, at least to the extent of what the agreement spells out as the agent’s responsibility. A financial POA gives that individual a wide range of power over one's bank account, including the ability to make deposits and withdrawals, sign checks, and make or change beneficiary designations.



Financial POAs can be divided up into several different categories. These are the general power POA, limited power POA, and durable POA.



General Power POA



This POA allows the agent to act on behalf of the principal in any matters, as allowed by state laws. The agent under such an agreement may be authorized to handle bank accounts, sign checks, sell property, manage assets, and file taxes for the principal.



Limited POA



A limited power of attorney gives the agent the power to act on behalf of the principal in specific matters or events. It might explicitly state that the agent is only allowed to manage the principal's retirement accounts. This type of POA may be in effect for a specific period. For example, if the principal will be out of the country for two years, the authorization might be effective only for that period.



Durable Power of Attorney (DPOA)



The durable POA (DPOA) remains in control of certain legal, property, or financial matters specifically spelled out in the agreement, even after the principal becomes mentally incapacitated.



While a DPOA can pay medical bills on behalf of the principal, the durable agent cannot make decisions related to the principal's health, such as taking the principal off life support. When the agent acts on behalf of the principal by making investment decisions through a broker, the broker would ask to see the DPOA.



The conditions for which a durable POA may become active are set up in a document called the "springing" power of attorney. A springing POA defines the kind of event or level of incapacitation that should occur before the DPOA springs into effect. A power of attorney can remain dormant until a negative health occurrence activates it to a DPOA. A springing power of attorney should be very carefully worded to avoid any problems in identifying precisely when and if the triggering event has happened.






A person appointed as power of attorney is not necessarily an attorney. The person could be a trusted family member, friend, or acquaintance.


   How to Setup a Power of Attorney  

You can buy or download a POA template. If you do, be sure it is for your state, as requirements differ. However, this document may be too important to leave to the chance that you got the correct form and handled it properly. Many states require that the signature of the principal (the person who initiates the POA) be notarized. Some states also require that witnesses' signatures be notarized.



The following provisos apply generally, nationwide, and everyone who needs to create a POA should be aware of them:



There is no standard POA form for all 50 states; state law and procedures varyAll states accept some version of the durable power of attorney



A few key powers cannot be delegated. These include the authority to do the following:



Make, amend, or revoke a will
Contract a marriage in most states, although a handful of states allow it
Vote (but the guardian may request a ballot on behalf of the principal)



While the details may differ, the following rules apply coast to coast:



Put It in Writing: While some regions of the country accept oral POA grants, verbal instruction is not a reliable substitute for getting each of the powers of attorney granted to your agent spelled out word-for-word on paper. Written clarity helps to avoid arguments and confusion.
Use the Proper Format: Many variations of POA forms exist. Some POAs are short-lived while others are meant to last until death. Decide what powers you wish to grant and prepare a POA specific to that desire. The POA must also satisfy the requirements of your state. To find a form that will be accepted by a court of law in the state in which you live, perform an internet search or ask a local estate planning professional to help you. The best option is to use an attorney.
Identify the Parties: The term for the person granting the POA is the principal. The individual who receives the power of attorney is called either the agent or the attorney-in-fact. Check whether your state requires that you use specific terminology.
Delegate the Powers: A POA can be as broad or as limited as the principal wishes. However, each of the powers granted must be clear, even if the principal grants the agent a general POA. In other words, the principal cannot grant sweeping authority such as, “I delegate all things having to do with my life.”
Specify Durability: In most states, a POA terminates if the principal is incapacitated. If this happens, the only way an agent can keep their powers is if it was written with an indication that it is durable, a designation that makes it last for the principal's lifetime unless the principal revokes it.
Notarize the POA: Many states require powers of attorney to be notarized. Even in states that don't, it is potentially easier for the agent if a notary’s seal and signature are on the document.
Record It: Not all powers of attorney must be recorded formally by the county to be legal. But recording is standard practice for many estate planners and individuals who want to create a record that the document exists.
File It: Some states require specific kinds of POAs to be filed with a court or government office before they can be made valid. For instance, Ohio requires that any POA used to grant grandparents guardianship over a child must be filed with the juvenile court. It also requires a POA that transfers real estate to be recorded by the county in which the property is located.






You can start the process of establishing a power of attorney by locating an attorney who specializes in family law in your state. If attorney fees are more than you can afford, legal services offices staffed with credentialed attorneys exist in virtually every part of the United States. Visit the Legal Services Corporation's website, which has a "Get Legal Help" search function. Clients who qualify will receive pro bono (cost-free) assistance.


   Choosing a Power of Attorney  

Like the property deed for your house or car, a POA grants immense ownership authority and responsibility. It is a matter of life and death in the case of a medical POA. And you could find yourself facing financial privation or bankruptcy if you end up with a mishandled or abused durable POA. Therefore, you should choose your agent with the greatest care to ensure your wishes are carried out to the greatest extent possible.



It is critical to name a person who is both trustworthy and capable to serve as your agent. This person will act with the same legal authority you would have, so any mistakes made by your agent may be difficult to correct. Even worse, depending on the extent of the powers you grant, there may be a danger of self-dealing. An agent may have access to your bank accounts, the power to make gifts and transfer your funds, and the ability to sell your property.



Your agent can be any competent adult, including a professional such as an attorney, accountant, or banker. But your agent may also be a family member such as a spouse, adult child, or another relative. Naming a family member as your agent saves the fees a professional would charge, and may also keep confidential information about your finances and other private matters “in the family."


   Naming Children as Power of Attorney  

Parents who create POAs very commonly choose adult children to serve as their agents. Compared to naming one’s spouse as the agent, the relative youth of the child is an advantage when the purpose of the POA is to relieve an aging parent of the burden of managing the details of financial and investment affairs or provide management for an aging parent’s affairs should the parent become incapacitated.



In these cases, a spouse named as the agent who is near the same age as the person creating the POA may come to suffer the same debilities that led the POA’s creator to establish it, defeating its purpose. When the child is honest, capable, and respects the parent’s desires, this can be the best choice for a POA.



When there is more than one child, parents may struggle with the decision of who to select for the role of the agent. This is not a decision to be taken lightly. The agent named under your POA acts with your authority, so costly financial mistakes resulting from carelessness or lack of financial understanding may be impossible to fix. The same is true of acts that create intra-family conflict by favoring some members over others.



Worst of all, when delivered into the wrong hands, a POA may create what is often called a license to steal. There are instances when the agent abuses their power and makes decisions about financial and medical matters for their own benefit rather than staying in line with the wishes of the principal.



Children have different characters, skills, and circumstances, and the powers given to them can avert these dangers. The good news is that you can have multiple POAs naming separate agents and customize them for each child’s skill set, temperament, and ability to act on your behalf.


  Factors to Consider  

Consider these three key factors when choosing which child you want to give important powers to under a POA:



Trustworthiness: This is the single most important trait for an agent named under a POA. This includes not just honesty but also reliability in performing tasks that need regular attention, from managing an investment portfolio to paying bills, and diligence in acting according to your wishes.



Abilities of Each Child: Specific abilities of different children may make them best suited to take on particular roles in managing your financial affairs. You can use limited POAs to give different children defined and limited powers over different aspects of your finances. These may include the following:



Managing everyday expenses of the familyReceiving income from and paying expenses on real estateControlling a financial portfolioManaging insurance and annuitiesRunning a family’s small business



Multiple Agents: More than one agent can be named by a POA, either with the authority to act separately or required to act jointly. Having two children separately authorized to manage routine items can be a convenience if one becomes unavailable for some reason while requiring two to agree on major actions like selling a house can assure family agreement over major decisions.



Naming multiple agents can cause problems if disputes arise between them. For instance, if two children are required to act jointly in managing an investment account but disagree over how to do so, it may be effectively frozen. So when choosing two children to act jointly as agents under a POA, be sure they have not only the skills for the task but personalities to cooperate.


  Risks of Naming Children as Power of Attorney  

Mistakes—and worse, acts of self-dealing—committed by your agent can be extremely costly. This is especially so with a durable POA that gives broad control over your affairs during a time when you are incapacitated.



You must be convinced that the agent will follow your instructions, can do so, and will pursue your wishes even over the objections of other family members if need be.



Never name a child to be your agent as a matter of fairness to avoid hurt feelings or to preserve family harmony. This is especially true if you lack trust. The powers are far too important to be granted other than on the merits of trustworthiness and ability. Beware of naming a child as your agent if:



You experience difficulty, awkwardness, or resistance when explaining to the child the duties to be taken on as your agent under the POAThe child may not be available to perform the duties, or not be reliable in doing so due to their concerns or distractionsThe child has a history of problems with gambling or substance abuseThe child has serious debts or has been irresponsible in managing their finances and affairsThe child is engaged in intra-family conflicts that may result in using the powers received under the POA to favor some family members over others






Say one child is a busy financial expert living in a distant city, while another works part-time and lives conveniently close by. You can have one POA that names the first to manage your investment portfolio and another that names the second to manage your routine daily expenses and pay monthly bills.


   General Risks in Naming a Power of Attorney  

Be aware of the dangers of theft and self-dealing created by a POA, even when your agent is your child. To minimize the risk of such wrongdoing, in addition to the steps mentioned above, have your POA require your agent to report all actions periodically to an outside party, such as the family’s accountant or attorney. In other words, trust but verify. A capable attorney can draft your POA to include these safeguards under your state’s laws.



As family circumstances change, periodically review and update the POAs you have created. You can revoke a POA simply by writing a letter that identifies it and states that you revoke it, and delivering the letter to your former agent. Just like the document itself, some states require such a letter to be notarized. It’s a good idea to also send copies to third parties with whom the agent may have acted on your behalf. Then create a new POA and deliver it to your new choice of agent.



A power of attorney can provide you with both convenience and protection by giving a trusted individual the legal authority to act on your behalf and in your interests. Adult children who are both fully trustworthy and capable of accomplishing your wishes may make the best agent under your POA. But don’t name a person the agent simply because they are your child. Be sure your agent is trustworthy and capable as a first requirement, whomever you name.


   Getting Your Parents to Create a Power of Attorney  

There may come a time when you may become incapacitated and can't manage your own affairs. If you don't have a POA in place that enables a named agent to step in and do so, nobody may have the legal right to do so. For instance, nobody may have the right to take individual retirement account (IRA) distributions the parent needs for income, to borrow funds to pay medical bills, or deal with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) concerning the parent’s taxes.



It then will be necessary to go to court to seek to be named as a conservator or guardian for the parent, a course that may prove costly and slow. And it could be contested, leading to family conflicts.



You may choose to name one or more of your children as your POA(s). There are many different kinds of POAs and you can have more than one. While a general POA enables the agent to act with the authority of the POA’s creator in all matters, a special POA can limit that authority to a specific subject, such as managing an investment account, or to a limited period, such as while the creator of the POA is traveling abroad.



Here are some things to consider:



Start Small: A special POA can be used only to provide a convenience that you will value as a parent, such as one that enables your children to prepare and file your tax return and manage your dealings with the IRS.
Safeguards: If you're concerned about how your affairs will be handled, make sure the POA requires that the agent periodically report all actions taken to a trusted third party whom family members agree upon, such as the family’s lawyer or accountant. Or you can name two agents and require they agree on major transactions, such as the sale of a home.
Consult Trusted Advisors: Trusted professional advisors, such as lawyers, accountants, and doctors, can help you understand the wisdom and necessity of adopting POAs. These documents can be valuable for you and the rest of your family. If you aren't comfortable granting broad powers at once, you can do so gradually. But don’t delay, or there may be costly consequences since the grantor must be mentally competent to create a power of attorney. If you lose the capability of managing your affairs, it's too late. At that point, court proceedings may be required.






Power of attorney can take effect immediately after signing the relevant documents, or it can be specified to begin at some point in the future.




What Does Having Power of Attorney Do?
A power of attorney is a legal status granted to somebody that allows them to act on your behalf. The person given a POA may have either broad or narrow legal authority, depending on how it is spelled out in the POA document, to make legal decisions about one's property, finances, or medical directives.




Can Somebody With Power of Attorney Do Anything They Please?
No. The scope of legal authority granted by a POA is laid out when it is established. Furthermore, the person that is granted power of attorney has a legal fiduciary duty to make decisions that are in the best interests of the person for whom they are representing.




Can Next of Kin Override a Power of Attorney?
No. Next of kin or other family members do not have any legal authority to override or nullify an existing power of attorney.




How Can I Revoke Power of Attorney I Have Given to Somebody?
Power of attorney can be terminated if you expressly revoke it. It may also have a set termination date or duration of time for which it is in force. If you become mentally incapacitated it will also cease unless it is a durable power of attorney. If you die, all powers of attorney cease.




Who Can I Name to Have Power of Attorney?
You can technically name anybody to have POA, so long as it is done under your free will and you are mentally competent. It should be somebody trustworthy and capable, such as a spouse, close family member, or friend. You may also designate your lawyer to have a POA.You can, in theory, name more than one individual to have POA, but this is not recommended as it can create conflicts and confusion.


   The Bottom Line  

Creating a power of attorney and specifying how it will operate even if you lose your ability to think or function ensures that you will have a plan in place for overseeing your financial affairs and health directives if and when you are unable to do so. Be sure to choose somebody you trust and who will be able to faithfully carry out their responsibilities on your behalf.
What Is Pre-foreclosure?  

Pre-foreclosure refers to the first phase of a legal proceeding that ultimately can conclude in a property being repossessed from a defaulted borrower. The lender files a notice of default on the property in pre-foreclosure because the borrowing owner exceeds the contractual terms for delinquent payments.



A notice of default informs the borrowing owner that the lender is pursuing legal actions toward foreclosure. Borrowers have a few options available if they find themselves in pre-foreclosure. Lenders may even be willing to negotiate with them to avoid moving to the foreclosure phase.





Key Takeaways


Pre-foreclosure is a legal process that occurs before a property is repossessed by the lender.
If a homeowner is late on a certain number of payments, the lender may issue a notice of default sending the home into pre-foreclosure.
Mortgage borrowers may still have some options during pre-foreclosure to save their homes.
A lender is obligated to go through a court proceeding to finalize a foreclosure and eviction notice.
Some lenders will let you make back payments to get out of pre-forclosure. 





   How Pre-foreclosure Works  

When a home buyer takes out a loan to purchase a property, they sign a contract with the lending institution to repay the mortgage loan according to a contractual agreement, typically with monthly installments. Monthly payments are usually structured to cover a portion of principal and interest payments on the mortgage.



Standard mortgage contracts are often structured to be in default if a borrower fails to make payments for three consecutive months. At that point, the lender is usually contractually authorized to begin pre-foreclosure. When this happens, the borrower receives a copy of a notice of default, which is also made a matter of public record, through a filing with the court. This action begins the pre-foreclosure process, which can take anywhere from weeks to more than a year, as it varies by state and is subject to a court proceeding.



There are several standard steps to a foreclosure proceeding. The notice of default kicks off the proceeding in the pre-foreclosure phase. In general, the lender needs court approval, which must be given by a judge, for their lien on a property.



Lenders are often more willing to negotiate backdated payments and possible loan modifications in the pre-foreclosure stage of a proceeding to avoid paying what can be extensive foreclosure proceeding costs. If foreclosure is granted and a foreclosure eviction notice is authorized, then the lender can move toward a public auction or trustee sale.






Mortgage lending discrimination is illegal. If you think you’ve been discriminated against based on race, religion, sex, marital status, use of public assistance, national origin, disability, or age, then there are steps you can take. One such step is to file a report with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).


   Short Sales of Pre-foreclosure Homes  

A pre-foreclosure home that a borrower puts up for sale is typically referred to as a short sale. The sale can be a private transaction between the homeowner and the buyer, but the buyer’s offer usually must be approved by the bank before the sale can be finalized. The purchase price may be less than the outstanding loan balance, which is why the sale is said to be short.



Keep in mind that not all short sales are pre-foreclosures. Homeowners who know they are in trouble sometimes elect to sell their properties by any means possible before reaching pre-foreclosure. A buyer can have a pre-foreclosed home inspected before making an offer on it. The buyer could be an investor looking to purchase the property for less than its fair market value (FMV) and then sell it at a higher price for a profit.



If the homeowner lists the property for sale through a real estate agent, then prospective buyers will contact the listing agent. In any short sale, the lending bank will likely need to be involved and may hire one or more real estate brokers or attorneys of their own, particularly to prepare a broker price opinion.






Homeowners facing foreclosure can contact the federal Making Home Affordable Program at 888-995-HOPE (888-995-4673) for assistance with keeping their home—or, if that’s not possible, with relocating to a new home.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Pre-foreclosure Sales  

A home can be sold during the pre-foreclosure phase, which can be a win for all parties involved. By selling, the homeowner avoids the damage that a foreclosure would have on their credit history. The buyer can usually snag the property for below market value. The lending institution doesn’t have to pay the costs of a foreclosure proceeding or sell the property itself.



But selling a property independently is not necessarily easy, mainly since the seller must abide by legalities and disclosure requirements. Buyers of pre-foreclosed homes will need to be aware of any property liens or unpaid taxes on a home because these could potentially be transferred to the new owner without full disclosure or properly documented clauses.



If the homeowner does not make the past-due (and ongoing) mortgage payments, negotiate a modification, or sell the home during the pre-foreclosure period, the lender will eventually be granted authorization of their lien on the property. When this happens, they can evict the owner, subsequently selling the property. At this point, the bank owns the property and is more likely to try to sell the property at an even lower price rather than maintain its ongoing expenses, such as taxes and insurance.





Pros

Selling the home may protect the homeowner from bankruptcy
A homeowner may be able to buy an affordable home after the sale




Cons

Selling during pre-foreclosure may not be easy
Failure to make up past due payments can lead to foreclosure
Having your home in pre-foreclosure can be emotionally stressful





   COVID-19 Mortgage Relief  

There were a series of steps taken to protect struggling homeowners affected by the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020 and 2021.



The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act was signed into law on March 27, 2020, putting an eviction and foreclosure moratorium in place for government-backed mortgages through Dec. 31, 2020.
This was extended through Jan. 31, 2021.
The moratorium was further extended by President Joe Biden, by executive order on his first day in office, until at least March 31, 2021.
On Feb. 16, 2021, the moratorium was extended to June 30, 2021.
On June 24th, it was extended for the final time to July 31, 2021.
As of March 1, 2022, only certain states have extended the moratorium, such as Washington, D.C. (extended to Sep. 30, 2022). 



The executive order also made qualifying multifamily property owners eligible for forbearance. If a claim is approved, then government-backed mortgage borrowers were allowed to defer payments for up to 360 days, avoid late payment fees, avoid eviction from their home, defer any foreclosure proceedings already in process, and halt the pre-foreclosure phase for any new proceedings.



In addition, private lenders were advised to work with borrowers, making loan modifications more easily accessible. In 2021, rates fell to unprecedented lows, making refinancing a viable option for any mortgage borrower who hasn’t previously refinanced within the last few months and is contractually allowed to do so under their current mortgage terms. However, Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell has stated that interest rates will rise in the spring of 2022.




What Does Pre-foreclosure Mean?
Pre-foreclosure is an action taken by a lender to try to obtain a money owed on a mortgage. A pre-foreclosure is a warning that a foreclosure may occur, if debts are not resolved.




Is My House in Pre-foreclosure?
Before your house goes into pre-foreclosure, you will receive a legal notice of default, alerting you to risk of your house ending up in pre-foreclosure. If you haven't made payments to your mortgage in over three months, it is likely your home will fall into pre-foreclosure, as well.




What's the Difference Between Foreclosure and Pre-foreclosure?
A pre-foreclosure on the house occurs when a notice of default is served after getting court approval. During this phase, a homeowner may be able to negotiate with the lender to preserve the home, usually by paying off their debts. A foreclosure occurs if the lender receives the authority to serve the delinquent borrower a foreclosure eviction notice and then proceeds to hold a public auction to sell the property.


   The Bottom Line  

Pre-foreclosure can be an important phase because the lender may be open to a last-rights negotiation on delinquent debt for the borrower. The borrower often has a final opportunity to potentially reverse the default status by making up late payments, negotiating a modification, or possibly opting to sell the property before it reaches a final foreclosure eviction.
What Is a Pre-IPO Placement?  

A pre-initial public offering (IPO) placement is a private sale of large blocks of shares before a stock is listed on a public exchange. The buyers are typically private equity firms, hedge funds, and other institutions willing to buy large stakes in the firm. Due to the size of the investments being made and the risks involved, the buyers in a pre-IPO placement usually get a discount from the price stated in the prospective for the IPO.





Key Takeaways

A pre-IPO placement is a sale of large blocks of stock in a company in advance of its listing on a public exchange.The purchaser gets the shares at a discount from the IPO price.For the company, the placement is a way to raise funds and offset the risk that the IPO will not be as successful as hoped.


   Understanding the Pre-IPO Placement  

From the perspective of a young company, a pre-IPO placement is a way to raise money before going public. It also is a way to offset the risk that the IPO price will prove to be optimistic, and the price will not go up immediately after it opens. Moreover and often, investors in these private sales are institutional investors and help the company with governance matters and getting institutionalized before going IPO.



From the buyer's perspective, the amount per share may be discounted from the expected IPO price, but there is no way to know the price per share that the market will actually pay. In fact, the purchase is typically made without a prospectus and with no guarantee that the public listing will occur. The discounted price is compensation for this uncertainty.



Not many individual investors take part in pre-IPO placements. They are generally restricted to 708 investors, as the IRS calls them. These are high-net-worth individuals with a sophisticated knowledge of the financial markets.



The company, however, does not want these private buyers to immediately sell all their shares if their stock soars once it opens on an exchange. To prevent this, a lock-up period is generally attached to the placement, preventing the buyer from selling shares in the short-term.


   An Example of Pre-IPO Placement  

Plenty of investors were excited about the impending IPO of Alibaba Group, the e-commerce conglomerate based in China, when it announced it would be listed on the New York Stock Exchange as BABA in September 2014.



In advance of its public debut, Alibaba opened up a pre-IPO placement for large funds and wealthy private investors. One of the buyers was Ozi Amanat, a venture capitalist based in Singapore. He purchased a block of $35 million of pre-IPO shares at a price below $60 per share and then allocated the shares among Asian investors who had ties to his fund, K2 Global.






Pre-IPO placements are generally open only to high-net-worth individuals with a sophisticated knowledge of the financial markets.



On its first day of public trading, BABA closed just below $90 per share. As of the start of November 2020, it was trading at above $276 per share.



You might suspect that Alibaba's management regretted that pre-IPO placement. However, the money paid by Amanat and other investors ensured that the company had adequate funding before its IPO and mitigated the risk for Alibaba that the IPO would not be as successful as the company hoped. And it certainly worked out well for Amanat's clients.
What Is Pre-Market Trading?  

Pre-market trading is the period of trading activity that occurs before the regular market session. The pre-market trading session typically occurs between 8 a.m. and 9:30 a.m. EST each trading day. Many investors and traders watch the pre-market trading activity to judge the strength and direction of the market in anticipation of the regular trading session.



Pre-market trading can only be executed with limited orders through an "electronic market" like an alternative trading system (ATS) or electronic communication network (ECN). Market makers are not permitted to execute orders until the 9:30 a.m. EST opening bell.


   Understanding Pre-Market Trading  

Pre-market trading activity generally has limited volume and liquidity; therefore, large bid-ask spreads are common. Many retail brokers offer pre-market trading but may limit the types of orders that can be made during the pre-market period. Several direct-access brokers allow access to pre-market trading to commence as early as 4 a.m. EST from Monday through Friday.



It is important to remember there is very little activity for most stocks so early in the morning unless there is news. The liquidity is also extremely thin, with most stocks only showing stub quotes. Index-based exchange-traded funds (ETFs), such as the SPDR S&P 500 ETF (SPY), have moving quotes due to the trading in the S&P 500 futures contracts. Many of the most widely held top holdings in benchmark indices may also get movement in the event of a significant gap up or down in the S&P 500 futures. Large-cap, widely held stocks such as Apple Inc. (AAPL) tend to get trades as early as 4:15 a.m. EST.



After-hours trading was introduced before pre-market trading. The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) introduced after-hours trading in June 1991 by extending trading hours by an hour. The move was a response to increased competition from international exchanges in London and Tokyo and private exchanges, which offered more hours of trading, and 2.24 million shares changed hands in two sessions of trading. Over the years, as exchanges became increasingly computerized and the Internet's reach spread across borders, NYSE began extending the number of hours of trading available for trading, eventually allowing pre-market trading between the hours of 4 a.m. and 9:30 a.m.





Key Takeaways

Pre-market trading is trading that occurs between 4 a.m. and 9:30 a.m. EST.Pre-market trading is characterized by thin liquidity, low trading volumes, and large bid-ask spreads.


   Pre-Market Trading: Benefits  

Pre-market trading and after-hours trading—collectively known as extended-hours trading—share similar benefits and risks. Let's look at the benefits first:



Provides an opportunity to react early to overnight news: Pre-market trading provides the retail investor with an opportunity to react to overnight news before the regular trading session commences. Such news could be corporate earnings (although most companies report earnings after markets close, rather than before the open) or a major company announcement, overnight breaking news such as a geopolitical development, or news emanating from overseas markets. The caveat here is that the pre-market reaction to such news may reverse in the regular trading session. The limited trading volume in the pre-market may provide a signal of weakness or strength that may not be borne out when the market opens and regular trading volumes are reached. For example, a stock that reports an earnings miss may be down significantly in pre-market trading but could reverse course and end the day higher in the regular session.Convenience: This is a major benefit for the do-it-yourself investor because not everyone has a schedule that permits trading during regular market hours. The ability to start the day early and place trades in the pre-market is a big advantage for most people due to the frenzied pace of everyday life.Get a jump on the competition: Astute traders and investors who are familiar with trading patterns and experienced in extended-hours trading may use the pre-market to buy or sell stocks at more favorable prices, compared to prices obtained by other traders in the regular session. This is only possible if the pre-market reaction to news about a stock is accurate, and the stock does not fully discount the news in pre-market trading. In such instances, a stock that trades higher in the pre-market will continue to trend significantly higher in the regular trading session, while a stock that trades lower in the pre-market will trend lower during regular trading.


   Pre-Market Trading: Risks  

We now turn to the risks of pre-market trading, which include:



Limited liquidity and wide bid-ask spreads: The number of buyers and sellers of stocks is far fewer in the pre-market, compared with the multitudes of traders and investors during regular trading. As a result, pre-market trading volumes are generally a fraction of volumes in the regular session. Low trading volumes result in limited liquidity, greater volatility, and wide bid-ask spreads.
Price uncertainty: Prices of stocks traded in the pre-market may diverge significantly from the prices of those stocks during regular hours. Apart from the impact on stock prices from vastly differing trading volumes in pre-market and regular sessions, pre-market stock prices may only reflect prices from a single or handful of electronic communication networks (ECNs). During regular trading hours, multiple exchanges, ECNs, and market makers provide stock prices, leading to better price discovery; the stock quotes shown are consolidated and represent the best bid and offer across all trading venues.
Limit orders may result in non-execution: Many brokerages only accept limit orders in extended-hours trading, so as to protect investors from unexpectedly adverse prices. Limit orders can only be executed at the limit price or better. The benefit of this feature of limit orders means that the investor knows the highest price at which a stock will be bought or the lowest price at which it will be sold. But this also means that if the market moves away from the limit price, the order will not be executed.
Competition from institutional traders: Retail traders face an uneven playing field in pre-market trading because many of the participants are institutional and professional traders who have a trading edge on account of much deeper pockets and access to better, more timely information.



These risks mean that only experienced traders should consider trading in the pre-market because the odds are stacked against retail traders. Seasoned traders have the knowledge and experience to gauge the many nuances that make trading a challenge—such as assessing whether the pre-market reaction to the news is an under-reaction or over-reaction—and taking decisive action on trading matters like opening a new stock position or closing an existing one, setting limit prices at certain levels for buys and sells, etc.




When Does Pre-Market Trading Begin?
Pre-market trading can start as early as 4 a.m. EST, although most of it takes place from 8 a.m. EST and before regular trading commences at 9:30 a.m. EST.




What Securities Can Be Traded in the Pre-Market Session? Options?
Generally, only listed stocks can be traded in the pre-market session. Not all stocks, though. Stocks such as those that have a limited float or are not widely held, or small-cap stocks, may not have sufficient volumes to make pre-market trading a viable proposition. Options cannot be traded in the pre-market session.




Do Online Brokers Offer Pre-Market Trading?
Almost all online brokers offer pre-market trading, although the hours differ from one broker to the other. Here's a sample of pre-market trading hours at select online brokers as of Dec. 21, 2021 (note that these hours may be subject to change):TD Ameritrade offers pre-market trading from 7 a.m. EST to 9:28 a.m. EST.At Charles Schwab, pre-market orders can be placed between 8:05 p.m. (on the previous trading day) and 9:25 a.m. EST, and are eligible for execution between 7 a.m. and 9:25 a.m. EST.E*TRADE offers pre-market trading from 7 a.m. EST to 9:30 a.m. EST.Interactive Brokers has pre-trading for its "IBKR Pro" accounts from 4 a.m. EST to 9:30 a.m. EST, and for its "IBKR Lite" accounts from 7 a.m. EST to 9:30 a.m. EST.At Robinhood, the pre-market trading session is from 9 a.m. EST to 9:30 a.m. EST; trades may still be executed as early as 8:58 a.m. EST.Webull allows pre-market trading from 4 a.m. EST to 9:30 a.m. EST.




Can a Limit Order From Pre-Market Trading Carry Over into the Regular Session?
In most cases, limit orders from pre-market trading are only valid for that particular session and if not executed, do not carry over into the regular session. However, Interactive Brokers permits limit- or stop-limit-type orders that can be active in all trading sessions including pre-market, regular trading hours (RTH), and after-market; for such orders, the attribute "Allow Outside RTH" needs to be added.




Why Are Extended Trading Hours Necessary?
Extended trading hours enable investors to react to news and events when the markets are closed. It is also a convenient way to trade for people who cannot buy and sell securities during the regular trading session.




What Is the Nasdaq-100 Pre-Market Indicator?
The Nasdaq-100 Pre-Market Indicator is calculated based on the last sale of Nasdaq-100 securities during the pre-market trading period of 8:15 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. EST. For Nasdaq-100 securities that do not trade in the pre-market, the calculation uses the last sale from the previous day's 4 p.m. closing price. The Nasdaq-100 Pre-Market Indicator and After Hours Indicator are useful gauges of market sentiment during extended trading hours.




Is 24-Hour Trading for Stocks Going to Be a Reality Soon?
The 24-hour trading that is a feature of the foreign exchange and cryptocurrency markets may come to equity markets within the next few years. 24 Exchange, a Bermuda-based crypto and foreign exchange trading platform, aims to bring the round-the-clock trading of the digital currency realm to the stock market. In October 2021, 24 Exchange filed forms with the Securities and Exchange Commission in hopes of receiving a license to commence operating a 24-hour exchange in 2022.
What Is Predatory Pricing?  

Predatory pricing is the illegal business practice of setting prices for a product unrealistically low in order to eliminate the competition.



Predatory pricing violates antitrust laws, as its goal is to create a monopoly. However, the practice can be difficult to prosecute. Defendants may argue that lowering prices is a normal business practice in a competitive market rather than a deliberate attempt to undermine the marketplace.



Predatory pricing doesn’t always work, since the predator is losing revenue as well as the competition. The predator must raise prices eventually. At that point, new competitors will emerge.





Key Takeaways

In a predatory pricing scheme, prices are set unrealistically low in order to eliminate competitors and create a monopoly.Consumers benefit from lower prices in the short term but suffer in the long term as the successful predator has eliminated choice and is free to raise prices.Predatory pricing has been difficult to prove in court.


   Understanding Predatory Pricing  

To understand how predatory pricing affects markets, and eventually consumers, it is necessary to take a longer view.



Consumers enjoy the short-term benefits of competitive pricing. Heightened competition creates a buyer’s market in which the consumer enjoys lower prices, increased leverage, and wider choice.



However, if one company cuts its prices unrealistically low or even below cost, others competitors will be forced to abandon the market. At that point, the advantages for consumers quickly evaporate—or even reverse.



A monopolistic marketplace allows a single producer to raise prices, safe in the knowledge that the consumer has no alternatives.


   The Effects of Predatory Pricing  

Luckily for consumers, predatory pricing practices tend to backfire in the long run. In order to drive all rivals out of a business, the predator must cut prices below their manufacturing costs. The intent, of course, is to raise prices back to normal or above normal once the competition is gone.



The problem with that strategy is that rival companies will see the opportunity to enter or re-enter the business once prices stabilize.


   The Pitfalls of Predatory Pricing  

Fortunately for consumers, predatory pricing isn't an easy strategy to pull off. Eliminating all rivals in a given market comes with considerable risk.



For instance, if a town has many gas stations, any one of them could attract more business by cutting prices deeply. Sustaining those prices long enough to kill off the competition is harder.



Even if such an effort worked, the strategy will succeed only if the revenue lost through predatory pricing can be recouped quickly. But as soon as the sole gas station raises its prices to normal levels, other competitors will spot an opportunity and step in.


   Dumping as Predatory Pricing  

Dumping is a form of predatory pricing practiced by businesses attempting to dominate a foreign market. Typically, businesses that practice dumping sell their products in a foreign market for cheaper than they can at home.



An increasingly global marketplace has added a new risk to those attempting to dump products: Some dumped goods are bought abroad and then shipped back to the home country to be sold at higher prices.



A famous cautionary tale from the early 20th century involved dumping by a German cartel that controlled the European market for bromine, then an essential ingredient in many medicines and a vital element in photography. After the American company Dow Chemical started exporting competitively priced bromine to Europe, the Germans retaliated by exporting bromine to the U.S. for sale at below their manufacturing cost.



Dow responded by simply buying the bromine stateside at the dumped price and reselling it profitably in Europe, which allowed the company to strengthen its European customer base at the expense of the German cartel.


   Predatory Pricing and the Law  

Prosecution of predatory pricing is difficult, given that the prosecutors are trying to prove that low prices can be a bad thing and even an illegal one.



The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) says it examines allegations of predatory pricing “carefully” but that the courts have been “skeptical” of such claims. The U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) has asserted that predatory pricing is a real problem and that courts have adopted an overly cautious view of the practice.



A high bar has been set on antitrust claims in general. The U.S. Supreme Court has required that plaintiffs show a likelihood that the pricing practices will affect not only rivals but also competition in the market as a whole, in order to establish that there is a substantial probability that the attempt to monopolize will succeed.



Further, the court established that predatory pricing must be not just aggressively low but actually below the seller’s cost.



That said, it is not illegal for a business to set prices below its costs for reasons other than having a specific strategy to eliminate competitors.


   Example of Predatory Pricing  

One of the most active areas of enforcement against predatory pricing is the U.S. government's effort to crack down on exporters who sell their products too cheaply in the U.S. The International Trade Commission of the Commerce Department defines too cheaply as "less than fair market value."



Any U.S. company can file a petition against any foreign company that it believes is selling its goods at less than fair market value.



Current complaints under review include a wide range of products from many countries, from frozen shrimp and steel nails shipped from India to lemon juice from South Korea.



If the International Trade Commission finds that an importer has sold its products for less than fair market value, it has the power to impose a duty at a rate that is calculated to eliminate any benefit derived from dumping goods.




What Does Predatory Pricing Mean?
Predatory pricing is the lowering of prices by one company for the purpose of driving rivals out of the business. At that point, the company can raise prices, and in fact, must raise prices in order to recoup losses and survive. The practice is illegal because, if successful, it creates a monopoly and eliminates choice.




Which Companies Have Been Accused of Predatory Pricing?
Walmart is among the companies that have been accused of predatory pricing. In 1993, a judge ordered the retailer to stop selling drugs and health and beauty products below cost after three stores in Conway, Arkansas, accused the company of undercutting them to drive them out of business.This wasn’t an isolated case. Similar allegations were leveled at Walmart from rival companies in other states, and the company has been accused of predatory pricing on several other occasions.




Is Predatory Pricing Illegal?
Predatory pricing is illegal but it's difficult to prove. Predatory pricing violates antitrust laws in the U.S. and other countries that are intended to ensure fair competition. The prosecutors have to prove that the accused company did not just intend to compete but intended to eliminate the competition.


   The Bottom Line  

Is that product an example of predatory pricing or just a great bargain? From the consumer's viewpoint, it's hard to tell.



If it's predatory pricing, the low prices will last only enough for the manufacturer to drive its rivals out of business. At that point, it must raise prices in order to make up for the losses it incurred earlier by cutting its prices too low. And it can raise prices with impunity, now that the competition has been eliminated.
What Are Preemptive Rights?  

Preemptive rights give a shareholder the opportunity to buy additional shares in any future issue of a company's common stock before the shares are made available to the general public. This right is a contractual clause that is generally available in the U.S. only to early investors in a newly public company or to majority owners who want to protect their stake in the company when and if additional shares are issued.



A U.S. company may give preemptive rights to all of its common shareholders. but this is not required by federal law. If the company recognizes such rights, it will be noted in the company charter. The shareholder also may receive a subscription warrant entitling them to buy a number of shares of a new issue, usually equal to their current percentage of ownership.



A preemptive right is sometimes called an anti-dilution provision or subscription rights. It gives an investor the ability to maintain a certain percentage of ownership in the company as more shares are issued.





Key Takeaways

Preemptive rights in the U.S. are usually an incentive for early investors and a way for them to offset some of the risks of the investment.They are contract clauses that grant early investors the option to buy additional shares in any new offering in an amount equal to their original ownership stake.Also called anti-dilution provisions, these rights guarantee that early investors can maintain their clout as the company and its number of outstanding shares grow.Preemptive rights help early investors cut their losses if those new shares are priced lower than the original shares they bought.Common shareholders may be given preemptive rights. If so, this is noted in the company charter and the shareholder should receive a subscription warrant.


   Understanding Preemptive Rights  

A preemptive right is essentially a right of first refusal. The shareholder may exercise the option to buy additional shares but is under no obligation to do so.



The preemptive right clause is commonly used in the U.S. as an incentive to early investors in return for the risks they undertake in financing a new venture. That early investor generally buys convertible preferred shares in the company at the time that it is still a private entity. The preemptive rights give the investor the option to convert the preferred shares to common shares after the company goes public.



The use of preemptive rights in the U.S. is notably different from that of European Union nations and Great Britain, where preemptive rights for purchasers of common stock are required by law.



This right is not routinely granted to shareholders in the U.S. Several states grant preemptive rights as a matter of law but even these laws allow a company to negate the right in its articles of incorporation.



The preemptive right cushions the investor's loss if a new round of common stock is issued at a lower price than the preferred stock owned by the investor. In this case, the owner of preferred stock has the right to convert the shares to a larger number of common shares, offsetting the loss in share value.






The preemptive right offers the shareholder an option but not an obligation to buy additional shares of stock.


   Types of Preemptive Rights  

A contract clause may offer either of two types of preemptive rights, the weighted average provision or the rachet-based provision.



The weighted average provision allows the shareholder to buy additional shares at a price that is adjusted for the difference between the price paid for the original shares and the price of the new shares. There are two ways to calculate this weighted average price: the "narrow-based" weighted average and the "broad-based" weighted average.
The ratchet-based provision, or "full ratchet," allows a shareholder to convert preferred shares to new shares at the lowest sales price of the new issue. If the company's new shares are priced lower, the shareholder is effectively compensated with a greater number of shares in order to maintain the same level of ownership.


   Benefits of Preemptive Rights  

Preemptive rights generally are meaningful only to a major investor with a large stake in a company and a vested interest in maintaining a voice in its decisions. Few individual investors acquire a large enough stake in a company to raise any concerns about a reduction in the fractional percentage that their shares represent among millions of shares outstanding.



Those more likely to benefit are early investors and company insiders.


  The Benefit to Shareholders  

Preemptive rights protect a shareholder from losing voting power as more shares are issued and the company's ownership becomes diluted.



Since the shareholder is getting an insider's price for shares in the new issue, there also can be a strong profit incentive.



In the worst case, there is the option of reducing losses by converting preferred stock to more shares if the new issue is priced lower.


  The Benefit to Companies  

Preemptive rights are essentially an additional incentive to early investors in a new venture but they have additional benefits for the company that awards them.



It is less expensive for a company to sell additional shares to its current shareholders than to issue additional shares on a public exchange. Issuing stock to the public entails paying an investment banking service to manage the sale of the shares.



The savings in direct sales to existing shareholders lower the company's cost of equity, and hence its cost of capital, increasing the firm's value.



Preemptive rights also are an additional incentive for a company to perform well so it can issue a new round of stock at a higher price.


   Example of Preemptive Rights  

Let's assume that a company's initial public offering (IPO) consists of 100 shares and an individual purchases 10 of the shares. That's a 10% equity interest in the company.



Down the road, the company makes a secondary offering of 500 additional shares. The shareholder who holds a preemptive right must be given the opportunity to purchase as many shares as necessary to protect that 10% equity stake. In this example, that would be 50 shares if the prices of both issues were the same.



The investor who exercises that right will maintain a 10% equity interest in the company. The investor who opts not to exercise the preemptive right will still have 10 shares, but they will represent less than 2% of the outstanding shares.


   Preemptive Rights FAQs  

Here are the answers to some commonly asked questions about preemptive rights.


  What Are Preemptive Rights Shares?  

Preemptive rights give a shareholder the option to buy additional shares of the company before they are sold on a public exchange. They are often called "anti-dilution rights" because their purpose is to give the shareholder the ability to maintain the same level of voting rights as the company grows. Otherwise, the shareholder's stake would dwindle as the number of shares in other hands increases.


  Why Are Preemptive Rights Shares Important to Shareholders?  

Preemptive rights are an additional incentive for early investors to take on the risk of funding a new venture well before it begins making money or launches an initial public offering (IPO). These rights are rarely made available to regular investors in the U.S. although they are commonly offered by European companies.


  Do Common Shareholders Have Preemptive Rights?  




If you have preemptive rights, you should have received a subscription warrant when you bought the stock. This entitles you to buy a number of shares of a new issue, usually equal to your current percentage of ownership.



U.S. corporations are not required by law to offer their common shareholders preemptive rights, and most don't. Those that do outline the rights in their company charters. If this is the case, the shareholder should receive a subscription warrant entitling them to buy a number of shares of a new issue before is release on the public exchange. The number will usually be equal to their current percentage of ownership.



Great Britain and the European Union recognize the preemptive rights of common shareholders. However, in the U.S., such rights are generally awarded only to early investors and other insiders who have purchased shares or been awarded options in companies that have yet to go public.



They are used as an incentive to investment and a commitment that the holder of preemptive rights will be able to retain voting rights at the same level as the company grows.


  What Is a Waiver of Preemptive Rights?  

The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) provides a form that allows the removal of preemptive rights from a previous agreement if both parties agree to the change.



In the U.K., preemptive rights can be canceled if every shareholder signs a waiver. In the absence of such a waiver, the company must pursue a legal process if it wishes to cancel its preemptive rights.


   The Bottom Line  

Preemptive rights in the U.S. are relevant primarily to shareholders with a significant stake in a company who want to maintain that stake. Generally, they are early investors in a company or other major stakeholders who are given the contractual right to buy additional shares of any new issue in order to maintain the size of their stake. The ability to buy additional shares also cushions any losses they will incur if the newly issued shares bear a lower price.
What Are Preference Shares?  

Preference shares, more commonly referred to as preferred stock, are shares of a company’s stock with dividends that are paid out to shareholders before common stock dividends are issued. If the company enters bankruptcy, preferred stockholders are entitled to be paid from company assets before common stockholders.



Most preference shares have a fixed dividend, while common stocks generally do not. Preferred stock shareholders also typically do not hold any voting rights, but common shareholders usually do.





Key Takeaways

Preference shares (preferred stock) are company stock with dividends that are paid to shareholders before common stock dividends are paid out.There are four types of preferred stock - cumulative (guaranteed), non-cumulative, participating and convertible.Preference shares are ideal for risk-averse investors and they are callable (the issuer can redeem them at any time).












Investopedia / Jessica Olah


   Understanding Preference Shares  

Preference shares fall under four categories: cumulative preferred stock, non-cumulative preferred stock, participating preferred stock and convertible preferred stock.



Cumulative preferred stock includes a provision that requires the company to pay shareholders all dividends, including those that were omitted in the past, before the common shareholders are able to receive their dividend payments. These dividend payments are guaranteed but not always paid out when they are due. Unpaid dividends are assigned the moniker "dividends in arrears" and must legally go to the current owner of the stock at the time of payment. At times additional compensation (interest) is awarded to the holder of this type of preferred stock.



Quarterly Dividend = [(Dividend Rate) x (Par Value)] ÷ 4



Cumulative Dividends per share = Quarterly Dividend x Number of Missed Payments



Non-cumulative preferred stock does not issue any omitted or unpaid dividends. If the company chooses not to pay dividends in any given year, the shareholders of the non-cumulative preferred stock have no right or power to claim such forgone dividends at any time in the future.



Participating preferred stock provides its shareholders with the right to be paid dividends in an amount equal to the generally specified rate of preferred dividends, plus an additional dividend based on a predetermined condition. This additional dividend is typically designed to be paid out only if the amount of dividends received by common shareholders is greater than a predetermined per-share amount. If the company is liquidated, participating preferred shareholders may also have the right to be paid back the purchasing price of the stock as well as a pro-rata share of remaining proceeds received by common shareholders.



Convertible preferred stock includes an option that allows shareholders to convert their preferred shares into a set number of common shares, generally any time after a pre-established date. Under normal circumstances, convertible preferred shares are exchanged in this way at the shareholder's request. However, a company may have a provision on such shares that allows the shareholders or the issuer to force the issue. How valuable convertible common stocks are is based, ultimately, on how well the common stock performs.


   What are preference shares?  

Preference shares, also known as preferred shares, are a type of security that offers characteristics similar to both common shares and a fixed-income security. The holders of preference shares are typically given priority when it comes to any dividends that the company pays. In exchange, preference shares often do not enjoy the same level of voting rights or upside participation as common shares.


   What are the main types of preference shares?  

There are four main types of preference shares: cumulative preferred, non-cumulative preferred, participating preferred, and convertible. Holders of cumulative preferred shares are entitled to receive dividends retroactively for any dividends that were not paid in prior periods, whereas non-cumulative preferred shares do not carry this provision. For this reason, cumulative preferred shares will generally be more expensive than non-cumulative preferreds. Similarly, participating preferred shares offer the benefit of additional dividends if certain performance targets are reached, such as company profits exceeding a specified level. Convertible preferreds, like convertible bonds, allow the holder to convert their preference shares into common shares at a specified exercise price.


   What happens if you own preference shares in a company that goes bankrupt?  

If a company goes bankrupt, then the different securityholders in that company will have claim to the company’s assets. The order in which those securityholders receive their share of the assets will depend on the specific rights given to them in their security agreements. Preference shares, for instance, will generally have priority over the common shares, and will therefore be paid before the common shareholders. However, preference shares will generally have lower priority than corporate bonds, debentures, or other fixed-income securities.
What Is a Preferred Dividend?  

A preferred dividend is a dividend that is allocated to and paid on a company's preferred shares. If a company is unable to pay all dividends, claims to preferred dividends take precedence over claims to dividends that are paid on common shares.





Key Takeaways

Preferred dividends refer to the cash dividends that a company pays out to its preferred shareholders.One benefit of preferred stock is that it typically pays higher dividend rates than common stock of the same company.A company declares all of its future preferred dividend obligations in advance, and so must allocate funds for that purpose where they accumulate in arrears.Preferred dividends must be paid out of net income before any common share dividend is considered.


   Understanding Preferred Dividends  

The boards of directors of public companies determine whether to pay a dividend to holders of its common stock and how much to payout. The dividend is a reward to stockholders. It represents their share of the company's profits and is an incentive for them to hold onto the stock for the long term. The board may raise, reduce, or eliminate its dividend based on the recent success of the business and depending on what other priorities it sees for the money.



Preferred dividends are issued based on the par value and dividend rate of the preferred stock. While preferred dividends are issued at a fixed rate based on their par value, this may be unfavorable in high inflation periods. This is because the fixed payment is based on a real rate of interest and is typically unadjusted for inflation.



The dividends for preferred stocks are by definition determined in advance and paid out before any dividend for the company's common stock is determined. The dividend may be a set percentage or may be tied to a particular benchmark interest rate. The dividend is generally paid on a quarterly or annual basis.


  How to Calculate Preferred Dividend  

All issuances of preferred stock contain the equity’s dividend rate and par value in the preferred stock prospectus. The dividend rate multiplied by the par value equates to the total annual preferred dividend. If the total dividend to be received is paid out in installments, such as in quarters, the issuer divides the total preferred dividend by the number of periods to get an approximate installment payment.



The preferred dividend coverage ratio is a measure of a company's ability to pay the required amount that will be due to the owners of its preferred stock shares. Preferred stock shares come with a dividend that is set in advance and cannot be changed. A healthy company will have a high preferred dividend coverage ratio, indicating that it will have little difficulty in paying the preferred dividends it owes.


   Dividends in Arrears  

A business may elect to forgo payment of dividends. Because preferred stockholders have priority over common stockholders in regards to dividends, these forgone dividends accumulate and must eventually be paid to preferred shareholders. Therefore, preferred stock dividends in arrears are legal obligations to be paid to preferred shareholders before any common stock shareholder receives any dividend. All previously omitted dividends must be paid before any current year dividends may be paid.



Preferred dividends accumulate and must be reported in a company’s financial statement. Noncumulative preferred stock does not have this feature, and all preferred dividends in arrears may be disregarded.


   Other Preferred Dividend Features  

Preferred stockholders typically receive the right to preferential treatment regarding dividends, in exchange for the right to share in earnings in excess of issued dividend amounts. Some preferred stockholders may receive the right of participation, in which their dividends are not restricted to the fixed rate of interest. However, a majority of preferred stock issuances are nonparticipating.



Callable preferred stock results in higher preferred dividends, as investors are sacrificing long-term security. If the preferred stock is retired at the call price, future preferred dividends may be included in the repurchase. Convertible preferred stock has lower preferred dividends, as the investor receives the additional of converting the preferred stock to common stock.
What Is a Preferred Provider Organization (PPO)?  

A preferred provider organization (PPO) is a health insurance plan for individuals and families. PPOs involve networks that are made up of contracted medical professionals and health insurance companies. Healthcare facilities and practitioners, known as preferred providers, offer services to the insurer's plan policyholders at reduced rates. Plan participants receive the maximum PPO benefit when they visit in-network healthcare professionals and are also offered coverage when they see out-of-network providers.





Key Takeaways


A preferred provider organization is a type of managed-care health insurance plan
PPO medical and healthcare providers are called preferred providers 
The costs associated with PPOs include higher insurance premiums, copays, and deductibles
Choosing between a PPO and an HMO generally involves weighing one's desire for greater accessibility to doctors and services versus the cost of the plan
PPO plans are more comprehensive in coverage and offer a wider range of providers and services than HMOs



   How Preferred Provider Organizations (PPOs) Work  

A preferred provider organization is a managed-care network consisting of medical professionals and facilities—such as primary and specialty physicians, hospitals, and other healthcare professionals—who contract with insurance providers to render services to subscribed participants. These are plan participants or consumers who are covered by the insurer's healthcare plan.



Plans negotiate fees and schedules for services with healthcare professionals and facilities. As such, the agreed-upon rate is typically lower than their usual charges. In exchange for reduced rates, insurers pay the PPO a fee to access the network of providers.



PPO participants are free to use the services of any provider within their network. They are encouraged, but not required, to name a primary care physician, and don't need referrals to visit a specialist. Subscribers may go out of network for coverage but it often comes at a higher cost.






PPOs may be sponsored by a particular insurance company, one or more employers, or some other type of organization.


   The Costs of a PPO Plan  

There are a number of costs associated with PPOs, and premiums tend to be higher than other types of insurance plans. PPO plans tend to charge higher premiums because they are costlier to administer and manage. Participants are generally responsible for copayments, which are paid directly to the provider at each visit. There are also deductibles that patients must meet before the plans start kicking in and paying claims in full.



As noted above, plan participants are also allowed to visit out-of-network facilities, usually at a higher cost. These charges are based on a reasonable and customary fee schedule. If those claims made by these healthcare providers exceed the reasonable and customary fees for services rendered, coverage may not apply or, most commonly, the excess charge is passed on to the patient.



One important point to note is the degree of flexibility associated with the higher cost of PPOs. These plans offer more options than others available on the market. PPO networks are typically large, with providers in many cities and states. Choosing a provider or accessing one in urgent situations provides value to participants.






Most health insurance plans are serviced through a PPO or an HMO. Other arrangements include exclusive provider organization (EPOs), which are a managed-care plan where services are covered only if you use doctors, specialists, or hospitals in the plan’s network (except in an emergency). Point of service (POS) plans involve lower fees for using providers that belong to the plan’s network. POS participants can go out of network but need referrals to see a specialist.


   Preferred Provider Organization (PPO) vs. Health Maintenance Organization (HMO)  

In contrast to PPOs, health maintenance organization (HMO) plans require participants to receive healthcare services from an assigned provider. This is a primary care doctor who coordinates the insured's care. Both programs allow the insured to seek specialist care but under an HMO plan, the designated primary care physician must provide a referral to a specialist.



As noted above, PPO plans charge higher premiums than almost every other plan for the convenience, accessibility, and freedom they offer. This includes a wider choice of hospitals and doctors. Plans with the lowest/fewest out-of-pocket expenses, such as those with low deductibles and low copayments, have higher premiums. The elevated premium cost is due to the insurer absorbing more of the associated costs. Conversely, lower-premium alternatives translate into higher out-of-pocket costs for the insured and lower costs for the insurer.



PPO plans come with more comprehensive coverage, including many services that other managed-care programs might exclude or for which they would charge an additional premium.



PPO plans have historically been the preferred choice among employer group participants. However, today, participants want more options for managed healthcare. Therefore, many employers offer HMO plans as well. Because HMO premiums are less expensive, some participants favor HMO plans for their affordability, although services and freedoms typically associated with PPO plans are often restricted.




How Do PPO Deductibles Work?
A health insurance deductible is an amount you must pay out of pocket for medical services each year; after you've met it, your insurance coverage kicks in. PPO plans may have two different annual deductibles. One applies to providers in the PPO network, the other—usually a larger sum—to providers outside the network. The latter is larger because the PPO wants to encourage you to stay in network, using its preferred providers.




What Are Disadvantages of PPO Plans?
PPO plans tend to be more expensive than other managed-care options. They typically have higher monthly premiums and out-of-pocket costs, like deductibles. You often have both coinsurance and copays. This is the tradeoff for the flexibility PPOs provide, of letting you use providers both within and outside the PPO system, without needing referrals.The costs for coinsurance and deductibles can be different for in-network and out-of-network providers and services. Some may find it onerous to have more responsibility for managing and coordinating their own care without a primary care doctor.




What Is the Difference Between a PPO and a POS?
The biggest difference between PPO and POS plans is generally flexibility. Both plans cover you whether you use providers and facilities in or out of the network. However, a POS requires you to have a primary care physician and get referrals from them if you want to see a specialist or anyone else. PPOs don't. Costs are another consideration. PPOs tend to be more expensive than POS plans—the premiums are higher and they usually come with deductibles that must be met before your coverage begins.


   The Bottom Line  

A preferred provider organization (PPO) is a type of managed-care health insurance plan. PPO plan participants are free to use the services of any provider within their network. They are encouraged, but not required, to name a primary care physician, and don't need referrals to visit a specialist.



PPO plans are more comprehensive in their coverage and offer a wider range of providers and services than HMOs. However, the costs associated with PPOs include higher insurance premiums, copays, and deductibles. Choosing between a PPO and an HMO generally involves weighing one's desire for greater accessibility to doctors and services versus the cost of the plan.
What Is a Preferred Stock?  

The term "stock" refers to ownership or equity in a firm. There are two types of equity—common stock and preferred stock. Preferred stockholders have a higher claim to dividends or asset distribution than common stockholders. The details of each preferred stock depend on the issue. 





Key Takeaways

Preferred stock is a different type of equity that represents ownership of a company and the right to claim income from the company's operations.Preferred stockholders have a higher claim on distributions (e.g. dividends) than common stockholders.Preferred stockholders usually have no or limited voting rights in corporate governance.In the event of a liquidation, preferred stockholders' claim on assets is greater than common stockholders but less than bondholders.Preferred stock has characteristics of both bonds and common stock which enhances its appeal to certain investors.












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   Understanding Preferred Stock  

Preferred shareholders have priority over common stockholders when it comes to dividends, which generally yield more than common stock and can be paid monthly or quarterly. These dividends can be fixed or set in terms of a benchmark interest rate like the London InterBank Offered Rate (LIBOR)​, and are often quoted as a percentage in the issuing description.



Adjustable-rate shares specify certain factors that influence the dividend yield, and participating shares can pay additional dividends that are reckoned in terms of common stock dividends or the company's profits. The decision to pay the dividend is at the discretion of a company's board of directors.



Unlike common stockholders, preferred stockholders have limited rights which usually does not include voting. Preferred stock combines features of debt, in that it pays fixed dividends, and equity, in that it has the potential to appreciate in price. This appeals to investors seeking stability in potential future cash flows.






   Types of Preferred Stock  

All of the types of preferred stock are exactly that—preferred stock. However, not all preferred stocks are the same. Each may or may not have different features that make them more or less favorable compared to other types.


  Prior Preferred Stock  

Prior preferred stock refers to the order in which preferred stock is ranked when considered for prioritization for creditors or dividend awards. Though regular preferred stock and prior preferred stock both hold precedence over common stock, prior preferred stock refers to an earlier issuance of preferred stock that takes priority. For example, if a company can only financially afford to pay one tier of shares its dividend, it must start with its prior preferred stock issuance.


  Preference Preferred Stock  

Preference preferred stock is considered the next tier of stock in terms of prioritization. Though it falls behind prior preferred stock, preference preferred stock often has greater priority compared to other issuances of preferred stock. If there are multiple tiers of preference preferred stock, each issuance is usually given its each rank (i.e. most senior, second senior, etc.)


  Perpetual Preferred Stock  

Some types of preferred stock have a fixed end date in which, much like a bond, the original capital contributed is returned to shareholders. In most cases, preferred stock is considered perpetual. This means that the initial capital invested will not be returned. An investor must sell their shares at their choosing to redeem the shares.


  Convertible Preferred Stock  

In most cases, convertible preferred stock allows a shareholder to trade their preferred stock for common stock shares. The exchange may happen when the investor wants, regardless of the prices of either share. Once the exchange has occurred, the investor has relinquished its right to trade and can not convert the common shares back to preferred shares. Convertible preferred stock usually has predefined guidance on how many shares of common stock it can be exchanged for.


  Cumulative Preferred Stock  

If a company issues ad dividend, it may issue cumulative preferred stock. This means that should a company issue a dividend but not actually pay it out, that unpaid dividend is accumulated and must be made in a future period. It is also important to note that preferred stock takes precedence over common stock for receiving dividend payments. This means that a share of cumulative preferred stock must have all accumulated dividends from all prior years paid before any other lower-tier share can receive dividend payments.


  Noncumulative Preferred Stock  

It's worth pointing out that some preferred stock may explicitly state that it is noncumulative. This means that if a company does not pay a dividend in a given year, that "missed" dividend is not directly made up for in a future period. Dividends are treated as year-to-year; any prior period does not carryover and does not hold weight into the order of who gets paid what. This type of stock is common in banking as there are international rules that dictate how certain capital is classified by regulators.


  Participating Preferred Stock  

In some years, a company may decide it can not financially afford to issue a dividend. However, participating preferred stockholders may still be entitled to a dividend. These participating dividends may be tied to company achievements such as total sales, earnings, or specific margins. A participating preferred stockholder may also earn these types of dividends on top of what the company issues as "normal dividends", assuming the company has enough finances to make all payments.


   Preferred Stock vs. Common Stock  

While preferred stock and common stock are both equity instruments, they share important distinctions. First, preferred stock receive a fixed dividend as dividend obligations to preferred shareholders must be satisfied first. Common stockholders, on the other hand, may not always receive a dividend. A company may fully pay all dividends (even prior years) to preferred stockholders before any dividends can be issued to common stockholders.



Secondly, preferred stock typically do not share in the price appreciation (or depreciation) to the same degree as common stock. The inherent value of preferred stock is the ongoing cash proceeds investors received. Common stock, on the other hand, is more difficult to value. However, because it is not tied to semi-fixed payments, investors hold common stock for the potential capital appreciation.



Lastly, the two types of equity have different terms or conditions. Preferred typically have no voting rights, whereas common stockholders do. Preferred stockholders may have the option to convert shares to common shares but not vice versa. Preferred shares may be callable where the company can demand to repurchase them at par value. Preferred stock also receives better treatment during liquidations.





Preferred Stock

Equity ownership of a company
Tradable on public exchanges (for public companies)
Have first right to dividends and must be paid before common stockholders
Typically do not have as much capital appreciation
Typically has no voting rights
May have the option to be convertible to common stock
Receives better treatment during liquidations



Common Stock 

Equity ownership of a company
Tradable on public exchanges (for public companies)
No guarantee of dividends; must wait until preferred stockholders are made whole
Often has higher capital appreciation
Typically has voting rights
Do not have the option to be convertible to preferred stock
Receives worse treatment during liquidations





   Preferred Stock vs. Bonds  

Preferred stock is often compared to as bonds because both may offer recurring cash distributions. However, as there are many differences between stocks and bonds, there are differences with preferred equity as well.



In terms of similarities, both securities are often issued at face value or par value. This value is used to calculate future dividend payments and is unrelated to the market price of the security. Then, companies may issue dividends similar to how bonds issue coupon payments. Though the mechanism is different, the end result is ongoing payments derived from an investment.



There are still many differences between the two. Preferred stock dividend payments are not fixed and can change or be stopped. However, these payments are often taxed at a lower rate than bond interest. In addition, bonds often have a term that mature after a certain amount of time. There is theoretically no "end date" to preferred stock.



In addition, there are considerations to make regarding the order of rights should a company be liquidated. In most cases, debtholders receive preferential treatment, and bondholders receive proceeds from liquidated assets. Then, preferred shareholders receive distributions if any assets remain. Common stockholders are last in line and often receive minimal or no bankruptcy proceeds.





Preferred Stock

Often issues periodic, ongoing cash payments
Issued at par value (which is independent of market value)
Dividends may increase, decrease, or end at a company's discretion
Preferred stockholders are behind bondholders during bankruptcy or liquidations
Often do not have an end date



Bonds

Often issues periodic, ongoing cash payments
Issued at par value (which is independent of market value)
Interest is fixed and will not change not change over the life of the bond
Bondholders preferential treatment during bankruptcy or liquidations
Have a fixed term or maturity date





   Companies in Distress  

If a company is struggling and has to suspend its dividend, preferred shareholders may have the right to receive payment in arrears before the dividend can be resumed for common shareholders. Shares that have this arrangement are known as cumulative. If a company has multiple simultaneous issues of preferred stock, these may in turn be ranked in terms of priority. The highest ranking is called prior, followed by first preference, second preference, etc.



Preferred shareholders have a prior claim on a company's assets if it is liquidated, though they remain subordinate to bondholders. Preferred shares are equity, but in many ways, they are hybrid assets that lie between stock and bonds. They offer more predictable income than common stock and are rated by the major credit rating agencies.



Unlike bondholders, failing to pay a dividend to preferred shareholders does not mean a company is in default. Because preferred shareholders do not enjoy the same guarantees as creditors, the ratings on preferred shares are generally lower than the same issuer's bonds, with the yields being accordingly higher.






Cumulative preferred stock has the condition that any previously awarded dividends that have not yet been paid must be distributed before any common shareholder receives any dividend distribution. This is in contrast to noncumulative preferred stock which does not accumulate prior unpaid dividends.


   Voting Rights, Calling, and Convertibility  

Preferred shares usually do not carry voting rights, although under some agreements these rights may revert to shareholders that have not received their dividend. 



Preferred shares have less potential to appreciate in price than common stock, and they usually trade within a few dollars of their issue price, most commonly $25. Whether they trade at a discount or premium to the issue price depends on the company's creditworthiness and the specifics of the issue: for example, whether the shares are cumulative, their priority relative to other issues, and whether they are callable.



If shares are callable, the issuer can purchase them back at par value after a set date. If interest rates fall, for example, and the dividend yield does not have to be as high to be attractive, the company may call its shares and issue another series with a lower yield. Shares can continue to trade past their call date if the company does not exercise this option.



Some preferred stock is convertible, meaning it can be exchanged for a given number of common shares under certain circumstances. The board of directors might vote to convert the stock, the investor might have the option to convert, or the stock might have a specified date at which it automatically converts. Whether this is advantageous to the investor depends on the market price of the common stock.






Pay attention to whether a preferred stock is callable. The issuing company holds the right to buy the security back.


   Typical Buyers of Preferred Stock  

Preferred stock comes in a wide variety of forms and is generally purchased through online stockbrokers by individual investors. The features described above are only the more common examples, and these are frequently combined in a number of ways. A company can issue preferred shares under almost any set of terms, assuming they don't fall foul of laws or regulations. Most preferred issues have no maturity dates or very distant ones.



Institutions are usually the most common purchasers of preferred stock. This is due to certain tax advantages that are available to them, but which are not available to individual investors. Because these institutions buy in bulk, preferred issues are a relatively simple way to raise large amounts of capital. Private or pre-public companies issue preferred stock for this reason.



Preferred stock issuers tend to group near the upper and lower limits of the credit-worthiness spectrum. Some issue preferred shares because regulations prohibit them from taking on any more debt, or because they risk being downgraded. On the other hand, several established names like General Electric, Bank of America, and Georgia Power issue preferred stock to finance projects.




What Are the Advantages of a Preferred Stock?
A preferred stock is a class of stock that is granted certain rights that differ from common stock. Namely, preferred stock often possesses higher dividend payments, and a higher claim to assets in the event of liquidation. In addition, preferred stock can have a callable feature, which means that the issuer has the right to redeem the shares at a predetermined price and date as indicated in the prospectus. In many ways, preferred stock shares similar characteristics to bonds, and because of this are sometimes referred to as hybrid securities. 




Who Buys Preferred Stock?
Preferred stock often provides more stability and cashflow compared to common stock. Therefore, investors looking to hold equities but not overexpose their portfolio to risk often buy preferred stock. In addition, preferred stock receives favorable tax treatment; therefore, institutional investors and large firms may be enticed to the investment due to its tax advantages.




What Is an Example of a Preferred Stock?
Consider a company is issuing a 7% preferred stock at a $1,000 par value. In turn, the investor would receive a $70 annual dividend, or $17.50 quarterly. Typically, this preferred stock will trade around its par value, behaving more similarly to a bond. Investors who are looking to generate income may choose to invest in this security. The most common sector that issues preferred stock is the financial sector, where preferred stock may be issued as a means to raise capital.




Can You Lose Money on Preferred Stock?
Like any other type of equity investment, there are risks of investing including the loss of capital you invest into the company. Preferred stock has specific features different from common stock so it may perform differently. However, both investments are reflections of the performance of the underlying company. Should the company begin to struggle, this may result in a loss or decrease in value in the preferred stock price.




What Is the Downside of Preferred Stock?
Though preferred stock often has greater rights and claims to dividends, this type of investment often does not appreciate in value as much as common stock. In addition, preferred stock holders have little to no say in the operations of the company as they often forego voting capabilities.


   The Bottom Line  

Investors interested in generating cash flow from their equity holdings may be better suited holding preferred equity or preferred stock. This type of equity investment represents ownership of a company and results in prioritized treatment for dividend distributions. Though there are sacrifices for this right, preferred stock is simply a different vehicle for owning part of a business.
What Is a Premium?  

Premium has several meanings in finance. Most commonly, it refers to:



Generically, a security trading above its intrinsic or theoretical value is trading at a premium (in contrast to a discount). The difference between the price paid for a fixed-income security and the security's face amount at issue is referred to as a premium if that price is higher than par.
The purchase price of an insurance policy or the regular payments required by an insurer to provide coverage for a defined period of time.
The total cost to buy an option contract (often synonymous with its market price).





Key Takeaways

Premium can mean a number of things in finance—including the cost to buy an insurance policy or an option.Premium is also the price of a bond or other security above its issuance price or intrinsic value. A bond might trade at a premium because its interest rate is higher than the current market interest rates.People may pay a premium for certain in-demand items.Something trading at a premium might also signal it is over-valued.


   Understanding a Premium  

Broadly speaking, a premium is a price paid for above and beyond some basic or intrinsic value. Relatedly, it is the price paid for protection from a loss, hazard, or harm (e.g., insurance or options contracts). The word "premium" is derived from the Latin praemium, where it meant "reward" or "prize."


   Types of Premium  
  Price Premium  

A price that exists above some sort of fundamental value is referred to as a premium, and such assets or objects are said to be trading at a premium. Assets may trade at a premium due to increased demand, limited supply, or perceptions of increased value in the future.



A premium bond is a bond trading above its face value or in other words; it costs more than the face amount on the bond. A bond might trade at a premium because its interest rate is higher than current rates in the market.



The concept of a bond price premium is related to the principle that the price of a bond is inversely related to interest rates; if a fixed-income security is purchased at a premium, this means that then-current interest rates are lower than the coupon rate of the bond. The investor thus pays a premium for an investment that will return an amount greater than existing interest rates.



A risk premium involves returns on an asset that are expected to be in excess of the risk-free rate of return. An asset's risk premium is a form of compensation for investors. It represents payment to investors for tolerating the extra risk in a given investment over that of a risk-free asset.



Similarly, the equity risk premium refers to an excess return that investing in the stock market provides over a risk-free rate. This excess return compensates investors for taking on the relatively higher risk of equity investing. The size of the premium varies and depends on the level of risk in a particular portfolio. It also changes over time as market risk fluctuates.


  Options Premium  

Premiums for options are the cost to buy an option. Options give the holder (owner) the right but not the obligation to buy or sell the underlying financial instrument at a specified strike price. The premium for a bond reflects changes in interest rates or risk profile since the issuance date. The buyer of an option has the right but not the obligation to buy (call) or sell (put) the underlying instrument at a given strike price for a given period of time.



The premium that is paid is its intrinsic value plus its time value; an option with a longer maturity always costs more than the same structure with a shorter maturity. The volatility of the market and how close the strike price is to the then-current market price also affect the premium.



Sophisticated investors sometimes sell one option (also known as writing an option) and use the premium received to cover the cost of buying the underlying instrument or another option. Buying multiple options can either increase or reduce the risk profile of the position, depending on how it is structured.


  Insurance Premium  

Premiums for insurance include the compensation the insurer receives for bearing the risk of a payout should an event occur that triggers coverage. The premium may also contain a sales agent's or broker's commissions. The most common types of coverage are auto, health, and homeowners insurance.



Premiums are paid for many types of insurance, including health, homeowners, and rental insurance. A common example of an insurance premium comes from auto insurance. A vehicle owner can insure the value of their vehicle against loss resulting from accident, theft, fire, and other potential problems. 



The owner usually pays a fixed premium amount in exchange for the insurance company's guarantee to cover any economic losses incurred under the scope of the agreement. Premiums are based on both the risk associated with the insured and the amount of coverage desired.


   Premium FAQs  
  What Does Paying a Premium Mean?  

To pay a premium generally means to pay above the going rate for something, because of some perceived added value or due to supply and demand imbalances. To pay a premium may also refer more narrowly to making payments for an insurance policy or options contract.


  What Is Another Word for Premium?  

Synonyms for "premium" include prize, fee, dividend, or bonus. In insurance and options trading, it may be synonymous with "price."


  What Are Premium Pricing Examples?  

Premium pricing is a marketing strategy that involves tactically setting the price of a particular product higher than either a more basic version of that product or versus the competition. The purpose of premium pricing is to convey higher quality or desirability than other options.
What Is a Premium Bond?  

A premium bond is a bond trading above its face value or in other words; it costs more than the face amount on the bond. A bond might trade at a premium because its interest rate is higher than current rates in the market.


   Premium Bonds Explained  

A bond that's trading at a premium means that its price is trading at a premium or higher than the face value of the bond. For example, a bond that was issued at a face value of $1,000 might trade at $1,050 or a $50 premium. Even though the bond has yet to reach maturity, it can trade in the secondary market. In other words, investors can buy and sell a 10-year bond before the bond matures in ten years. If the bond is held until maturity, the investor receives the face value amount or $1,000 as in our example above.



A premium bond is also a specific type of bond issued in the United Kingdom. In the United Kingdom, a premium bond is referred to as a lottery bond issued by the British government's National Savings and Investment Scheme.





Key Takeaways

A premium bond is a bond trading above its face value or costs more than the face amount on the bond. A bond might trade at a premium because its interest rate is higher than the current market interest rates.The company's credit rating and the bond's credit rating can also push the bond's price higher.Investors are willing to pay more for a creditworthy bond from the financially viable issuer.


   Bond Premiums and Interest Rates  

For investors to understand how a bond premium works, we must first explore how bond prices and interest rates relate to each other. As interest rates fall, bond prices rise while conversely, rising interest rates lead to falling bond prices.



Most bonds are fixed-rate instruments meaning that the interest paid will never change over the life of the bond. No matter where interest rates move or by how much they move, bondholders receive the interest rate—coupon rate—of the bond. As a result, bonds offer the security of stable interest payments.



Fixed-rate bonds are attractive when the market interest rate is falling because this existing bond is paying a higher rate than investors can get for a newly issued, lower rate bond.



For example, say an investor bought a $10,000 4% bond that matures in ten years. Over the next couple of years, the market interest rates fall so that new $10,000, 10-year bonds only pay a 2% coupon rate. The investor holding the security paying 4% has a more attractive—premium—product. As a result, should the investor want to sell the 4% bond, it would sell at a premium higher than its $10,000 face value in the secondary market.



So, when interest rates fall, bond prices rise as investors rush to buy older higher-yielding bonds and as a result, those bonds can sell at a premium.



Conversely, as interest rates rise, new bonds coming on the market are issued at the new, higher rates pushing those bond yields up.



Also, as rates rise, investors demand a higher yield from the bonds they consider buying. If they expect rates to continue to rise in the future they don't want a fixed-rate bond at current yields. As a result, the secondary market price of older, lower-yielding bonds fall. So, those bonds sell at a discount.


   Bond Premiums and Credit Ratings  

The company's credit rating and ultimately the bond's credit rating also impacts the price of a bond and its offered coupon rate. A credit rating is an assessment of the creditworthiness of a borrower in general terms or with respect to a particular debt or financial obligation. 



If a company is performing well, its bonds will usually attract buying interest from investors. In the process, the bond's price rises as investors are willing to pay more for the creditworthy bond from the financially viable issuer. Bonds issued by well-run companies with excellent credit ratings usually sell at a premium to their face values. Since many bond investors are risk-averse, the credit rating of a bond is an important metric.



Credit-rating agencies measure the creditworthiness of corporate and government bonds to provide investors with an overview of the risks involved in investing in bonds. Credit rating agencies typically assign letter grades to indicate ratings. Standard & Poor’s, for instance, has a credit rating scale ranging from AAA (excellent) to C and D. A debt instrument with a rating below BB is considered to be a speculative grade or a junk bond, which means it is more likely to default on loans.


   Effective Yield on Premium Bonds  

A premium bond will usually have a coupon rate higher than the prevailing market interest rate. However, with the added premium cost above the bond's face value, the effective yield on a premium bond might not be advantageous for the investor.



The effective yield assumes the funds received from coupon payment are reinvested at the same rate paid by the bond. In a world of falling interest rates, this may not be possible.



The bond market is efficient and matches the current price of the bond to reflect whether current interest rates are higher or lower than the bond's coupon rate. It's important for investors to know why a bond is trading for a premium—whether it's because of market interest rates or the underlying company's credit rating. In other words, if the premium is so high, it might be worth the added yield as compared to the overall market. However, if investors buy a premium bond and market rates rise significantly, they'd be at risk of overpaying for the added premium.





Pros

Premium bonds typically pay a higher interest rate than the overall market.
Premium bonds are usually issued by well-run companies with solid credit ratings.



Cons

The higher price of premium bonds partly offsets their higher coupon rates.
Bondholders risk paying too much for a premium bond if it is overvalued.
Premium bondholders risk overpaying if market rates rise significantly.





   Real World Example  

As an example let's say that Apple Inc. (AAPL) issued a bond with a $1,000 face value with a 10-year maturity. The interest rate on the bond is 5% while the bond has a credit rating of AAA from the credit rating agencies.



As a result, the Apple bond pays a higher interest rate than the 10-year Treasury yield. Also, with the added yield, the bond trades at a premium in the secondary market for a price of $1,100 per bond. In return, bondholders would be paid 5% per year for their investment. The premium is the price investors are willing to pay for the added yield on the Apple bond.
What Is a Prepaid Debit Card?  

A prepaid debit card is much like a gift card: It allows you to spend whatever amount of money is stored on the card. You can reload the card online or at an ATM, a participating store, or another physical location when the balance is used up. Prepaid debit cards are issued by banks and they're branded by the major credit card companies, including Visa, MasterCard, Discover, and American Express.





Key Takeaways

A prepaid debit card can be a useful alternative to cash.Prepaid debit cards are an option for people who don't have a credit card or access to a regular debit card that's connected to a bank account.There are many fees associated with prepaid debit cards so it's important to shop around for the best deal.












Investopedia / Jake Shi


   Understanding Prepaid Debit Cards  

A prepaid debit card is as good as cash and sometimes it's better.



It is a safe way to carry money around, unlike a wad of paper money. Prepaid cards also come with certain consumer protections, but cash does not.A prepaid debit card can be used for online purchases.It can make a more attractive gift than cash.



Anyone who wants to stick to a strict budget or who has had trouble managing credit cards could consider using a prepaid debit card.






You can use a prepaid debit card for any transaction that you might otherwise use a credit card or regular debit card for. The recipient of your payment might even be unaware that the card is prepaid.



Some employers pay their workers with prepaid debit cards that are referred to as payroll cards. This can be useful if the person doesn't have a bank account or direct deposit. Many government benefits are also available via prepaid debit cards, including Social Security.


   Prepaid Debit Cards vs. Regular Debit Cards  

The amount of money you can spend with a regular debit card is tied to how much you have in the checking account it's linked to. You must have a bank account to use a regular debit card, but this isn't the case with a prepaid debit card.



The amount of money you have available to you will also fluctuate from day to day with a regular debit card as money moves in and out of your checking account. You have a fixed amount of money to spend with a prepaid debit card, which decreases as you spend and increases only if you reload the card.


   The Downsides of Prepaid Debit Cards  

Prepaid debit cards can come with an assortment of fees that will eat into your cash balance. These may include monthly fees, transaction fees, ATM fees, reloading fees, and foreign transaction fees. You may even be charged a fee for checking your balance on the card.



Employees have a legal right to decline being paid through a payroll card because the fees will reduce their take-home pay.


   Shopping for a Prepaid Debit Card  

Pay particular attention to the card's fees if you're shopping for a prepaid debit card. You'll also want to consider its convenience. How large of an ATM network will you have access to if the card is free to use at an ATM, as many of the best cards are? Is one of these ATMs close to where you live or work?





Important

Consider a secured credit card instead of a prepaid debit card if your goal is to repair your credit rating.


   An Alternative to a Prepaid Debit Card  

You might consider a secured credit card instead if the reason you want a prepaid debit card is that you have a bad credit history or no credit history at all so you're unable to get a conventional credit card. Secured cards are easier to qualify for because they require that you put down a refundable security deposit that serves as collateral for the lender.



The advantage of a secured credit card is that your monthly payments can be reported to the three major credit bureaus and help build your credit history. Debit cards, either prepaid or the regular kind, don't report transactions to the credit bureaus and will do nothing to improve your credit.




Are There Limits to How Much Can Be Added to a Prepaid Card?
Some prepaid debit card issuers impose limits as to how much money you can load, how little you can add on and load onto your card, or both. The limits usually apply to a specified period that may be daily or per month. Check with the issuer before you select a card that you think you may want to reload in the future. The minimum loadable amount may be more than you can afford and there may be a fee on top of that.




Can Prepaid Debit Cards Expire?
Prepaid cards can expire but you may have some options if you're aware of this in advance and know the date it will occur, and what you can do to prevent it. Some issuers will allow you to request a replacement card in advance of the expiration date. You may also be able to have the balance mailed to you in the form of a paper check, but there's typically a fee for this. As a last resort, you can spend the remaining money on the card for something you really need so you don't lose the money.




Is My Prepaid Debit Card FDIC-Insured?
Your card can be FDIC-insured if you bought it from a bank that's FDIC-insured. But you may have to take additional steps to register the card and the bank's records must meet certain FDIC criteria.


   The Bottom Line  

Prepaid debit cards come with both advantages and disadvantages. The interest and fees you'd pay on a regular credit card might be less than those charged by a prepaid card issuer, but you may not qualify for a credit card. A regular ATM debit card can be another choice if you have or are eligible for a checking account.



Otherwise, take your time to do some homework before you select a card for yourself or as a gift for someone else. Check out the issuer's track record and inquire about expiration dates, add-ons, and other issues. Compare this information to other prepaid card issuers so you're sure you're getting the best deal.
What Is a Prepaid Expense?  

A prepaid expense is an expense that has been paid for in advance but not yet incurred. In business, a prepaid expense is recorded as an asset on the balance sheet that results from a business making advanced payments for goods or services to be received in the future.



Prepaid expenses are initially recorded as assets, but their value is expensed over time onto the income statement. Unlike conventional expenses, the business will receive something of value from the prepaid expense over the course of several accounting periods.












Investopedia / Madelyn Goodnight


   Understanding Prepaid Expenses  

Companies make prepayments for goods or services such as leased office equipment or insurance coverage that provide continual benefits over time. Goods or services of this nature cannot be expensed immediately because the expense would not line up with the benefit incurred over time from using the asset.



According to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), expenses should be recorded in the same accounting period as the benefit generated from the related asset. For example, if a large copying machine is leased by a company for a period of 12 months, the company benefits from its use over the full time period. Recording an advanced payment made for the lease as an expense in the first month would not adequately match expenses with revenues generated from its use. Therefore, it should be recorded as a prepaid expense and allocated out to expense over the full twelve months.



Journal entries that recognize expenses related to previously recorded prepaids are called adjusting entries. They do not record new business transactions but simply adjust previously recorded transactions. Adjusting entries for prepaid expenses are necessary to ensure that expenses are recognized in the period in which they are incurred.



Due to the nature of certain goods and services, prepaid expenses will always exist. For example, insurance is a prepaid expense because the purpose of purchasing insurance is to buy proactive protection in case something unfortunate happens in the future. Clearly, no insurance company would sell insurance that covers an unfortunate event after the fact, so insurance expenses must be prepaid by businesses.


   Example of Prepaid Expense  

For example, assume ABC Company purchases insurance for the upcoming 12 month period. It pays $120,000 upfront for the insurance policy. ABC Company will initially book the full $120,000 as a debit to prepaid insurance, an asset on the balance sheet, and a credit to cash. Each month, an adjusting entry will be made to expense $10,000 (1/12 of the prepaid amount) to the income statement through a credit to prepaid insurance and a debit to insurance expense. In the 12th month, the final $10,000 will be fully expensed and the prepaid account will be zero.
What Is Prepayment?  

Prepayment is an accounting term for the settlement of a debt or installment loan in advance of its official due date. A prepayment may be the settlement of a bill, an operating expense, or a non-operating expense that closes an account before its due date. A prepayment may be made by an individual, a corporation, or any other type of organization.


   Understanding Prepayment  

Many types of debts and obligations are settled in advance through prepayment. Corporations might prepay rent, wages, revolving lines of credit, or other short-term or long-term debt obligations.



Consumers can prepay credit card charges before they actually receive a statement. Or they might pay a loan off early, by refinancing the debt through another lender or by paying the entire debt out of pocket.



Some loans, such as mortgages, may include a penalty for prepayment. If a loan includes such a penalty, the borrowers must be made aware of and agree to the provision at the time they take out the loan.



The penalty may only apply to paying off the entire balance, generally by refinancing the mortgage. A borrower can usually make intermittent extra payments of the principal without penalty.






A prepayment might be made for the entire balance of a liability or it could be a partial payment of a larger loan that is made in advance of the due date.


   Types of Prepayment  

Prepayments are common in a variety of contexts. Individuals and large businesses make prepayments.


  Corporate Prepayments  

In the corporate environment, expenses are the most common prepayments. These expenditures are paid in full in one accounting period for goods or services that will be consumed in a future period. The prepayment is reclassified as a normal expense when the asset is actually used or consumed. A prepaid expense is first categorized as a current asset on the company's balance sheet.



For example, a company can list $6,000 as a current asset under the prepaid rent account on its balance sheet if it rents office space for $1,000 a month and prepays six months' rent. The company would reduce the current asset by $1,000 in each subsequent month and would list the expense on its income statement as an operating cost of $1,000 as the total prepaid rent expenses are actually incurred.


  Prepayments by Individuals  

Individuals also make prepayments, and the personal accounting process is much easier. A consumer might run up a monthly credit card bill with a settlement date of 30 days after the end of the month.



If a consumer incurs $1,000 of total expenses on the card and pays it off on the 30th day of that month, it's considered a prepayment because the bill isn't actually due for another 30 days. The consumer's credit card company tracks these prepayments, so there is little need for the consumer to account for it personally.


  Prepayment by Taxpayers  

Taxpayers regularly—voluntarily or not—make a prepayment of taxes when part of their pay is withheld for taxes. Technically, taxes are due on or about April 15 each year, but their employers are required to withhold taxes in each pay period and send the money to the government on the employee's behalf.



Self-employed individuals are expected to make a prepayment of taxes by filing quarterly estimated taxes.



In either case, if they pay more than their taxes due for the year, taxpayers receive any excess back as a tax refund
What Is a Prepayment Penalty?  

A prepayment penalty is usually specified in a clause in a mortgage contract stating that a penalty will be assessed if the borrower significantly pays down or pays off the mortgage before term, usually within the first three years of committing to the loan. The penalty is sometimes based on a percentage of the remaining mortgage balance, or it can be a certain number of months’ worth of interest. Prepayment penalties protect the lender against the financial loss of interest income that would otherwise have been paid over time.





Key Takeaways

A prepayment penalty clause states that a penalty will be assessed if the borrower significantly pays down or pays off the mortgage, usually within the first five years of the loan.Prepayment penalties serve as protection for lenders against losing interest income.Mortgage lenders are required to disclose prepayment penalties at the time of closing on a new mortgage.


   How a Prepayment Penalty Works  

Prepayment penalties are written into mortgage contracts by lenders to compensate for prepayment risk, particularly in difficult economic climates and under circumstances where the incentive for a borrower to refinance a subprime mortgage is high. These penalties don’t only kick in when a borrower pays off the entire loan. Some penalty provisions go into effect if the borrower pays a large portion of the loan balance in a single payment.



Adding a prepayment penalty to a mortgage can safeguard against early refinancing or a home sale within the first three years after closing on a mortgage when a borrower is considered a risk to the lender. Alternatively, prepayment penalties might be added as a way to recoup some profit when a mortgage is advertised with a lower-than-average interest rate.



Mortgage lenders are required to disclose prepayment penalties at the time of closing on a new mortgage. Such penalties can’t be imposed without a borrower’s consent or knowledge. However, borrowers should be made aware of any potential for prepayment penalties well before closing. If the lender hasn’t said anything about one, borrowers should ask early on.






Making small, additional principal payments over the life of the loan does not normally trigger penalties, but it can’t hurt to ask your lender to make sure.


   Types of Prepayment Penalties  

A prepayment penalty that applies to both the sale of a home and a refinancing transaction is called a “hard” prepayment penalty. A prepayment penalty that applies to refinancing only is referred to as a “soft” one.


   Limitations of Prepayment Penalties  

While some home loans include prepayment penalties, they are not legal on single-family FHA loans. For other home loans, lenders can only inflict prepayment penalties during the first three years, with limits on the size of the penalty. Additionally, the lenders have to offer a loan that does not include a prepayment penalty as an alternative. These rules are in effect for loans issued after January 10, 2014, established by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) following the passage of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act.



VA mortgage loans issued to military and student loans do not allow prepayment penalties.


   Special Considerations  

Prepayment penalties vary among lenders. This means borrowers should be diligent about asking for—and fully understanding—the prepayment disclosure document prior to closing. Prepayment penalties can be set either as a fixed amount or as a percentage of the remaining mortgage balance. They may also be assessed on a sliding scale based on the length of time the mortgage has been in place.



Some lenders impose a penalty when a refinance or sale of the home is completed within the first two to three years of the original mortgage. Others charge a fee when the balance is paid off within the first five years.


   Example of a Prepayment Penalty  

A homeowner decides to refinance a two-year-old mortgage with a remaining balance of $250,000. If there is a prepayment penalty of 4%, said homeowner would pay $10,000 to the original lender for paying off the mortgage early. Borrowers should be aware of the specifics of their lender’s prepayment penalties; they can substantially increase the cost of refinancing a mortgage or selling a home.
What Is Prepayment Risk?  

Prepayment risk is the risk involved with the premature return of principal on a fixed-income security. When debtors return part of the principal early, they do not have to make interest payments on that part of the principal. That means investors in associated fixed-income securities will not receive interest paid on the principal. The prepayment risk is highest for fixed-income securities, such as callable bonds and mortgage-backed securities (MBS). Bonds with prepayment risk often have prepayment penalties.





Key Takeaways

Prepayment risk is the risk involved with the premature return of principal on a fixed-income security.When prepayment occurs, investors must reinvest at current market interest rates, which are usually substantially lower.Prepayment risk mostly affects corporate bonds and mortgage-backed securities (MBS).Prepayment risk can stack the deck against investors by making interest rate risk one-sided.


   Understanding Prepayment Risk  

Prepayment risk exists in some callable fixed-income securities that may be paid off early by the issuer, or in the case of a mortgage-backed security, the borrower. These features give the issuer the right, but not the obligation, to redeem the bond before its scheduled maturity.



With a callable bond, the issuer has the ability to return the investor's principal early. After that, the investor receives no more interest payments. Issuers of noncallable bonds lack this ability. Consequently, prepayment risk, which describes the chance of the issuer returning the principal early and the investor missing out on subsequent interest, is only associated with callable bonds.



For mortgage-backed securities, mortgage holders may refinance or pay off their mortgages, which results in the security holder losing future interest. Because the cash flows associated with such securities are uncertain, their yield-to-maturity cannot be known for certain at the time of purchase. If the bond was purchased at a premium (a price greater than 100), the bond's yield is then less than the one estimated at the time of purchase.


   Criticism of Prepayment Risk  

The core problem with prepayment risk is that it can stack the deck against investors. Callable bonds favor the issuer because they tend to make interest rate risk one-sided. When interest rates rise, issuers benefit from locking in low rates. On the other hand, bond buyers are stuck with a lower interest rate when higher rates are available. There is an opportunity cost when investors buy and hold bonds in a rising rate environment. From a total return perspective, bondholders also suffer a capital loss when interest rates rise.



When interest rates fall, investors only benefit if the bonds are not called. As market interest rates go down, the bondholders gain by continuing to receive the old interest rate, which was higher. Investors can also sell the bonds to obtain a capital gain. However, issuers will call their bonds and refinance if interest rates decline substantially, eliminating the possibility for bondholders to benefit from rate changes. Investors in callable bonds lose when interest rates rise, but they can't win when rates fall.



As a practical matter, corporate bonds often have call provisions, while government bonds rarely do. That is one reason why investing in government bonds is often a better bet in a falling interest rate environment. However, corporate bonds still have higher returns in the long run.






Investors should consider prepayment risk, as well as default risk, before choosing corporate bonds over government bonds.


   Requirements for Prepayment Risk  

Not all bonds have prepayment risk. If a bond cannot be called, then it does not have prepayment risk. A bond is a debt investment in which an entity borrows money from an investor. The entity makes regular interest payments to the investor throughout the bond's maturity period. At the end of the period, it returns the investor's principal. Bonds can either be callable or noncallable.


   Examples of Prepayment Risk  

For a callable bond, the higher a bond's interest rate relative to current interest rates, the higher the prepayment risk. With mortgage-backed securities, the probability that the underlying mortgages will be refinanced increases as current market interest rates fall further below the old rates.



For example, a homeowner who takes out a mortgage at 7% has a much stronger incentive to refinance after rates drop to 4% or 5%. When and if the homeowner refinances, those who invested in the original mortgage on the secondary market do not receive the full term of interest payments. If they wish to keep investing in the mortgage market, they will have to accept lower interest rates or higher default risk.



Investors who purchase a callable bond with a high interest rate take on prepayment risk. In addition to being highly correlated with falling interest rates, mortgage prepayments are highly correlated with rising home values. That's because rising home values provide an incentive for borrowers to trade up their homes or use cash-out refinances, both of which lead to mortgage prepayments.
What Is Present Value?  

Present value (PV) is the current value of a future sum of money or stream of cash flows given a specified rate of return. Future cash flows are discounted at the discount rate, and the higher the discount rate, the lower the present value of the future cash flows.



Determining the appropriate discount rate is the key to properly valuing future cash flows, whether they be earnings or debt obligations.





Key Takeaways


Present value states that an amount of money today is worth more than the same amount in the future.
In other words, present value shows that money received in the future is not worth as much as an equal amount received today.
Unspent money today could lose value in the future by an implied annual rate due to inflation or the rate of return if the money were invested.
Calculating present value involves assuming that a rate of return could be earned on the funds over the period.
Present value is calculated by taking the expected cash flows of an investment and discounting them to the present day.













Investopedia / Katie Kerpel


   Understanding Present Value  

Present value is the concept that states that an amount of money today is worth more than that same amount in the future. In other words, money received in the future is not worth as much as an equal amount received today.



Receiving $1,000 today is worth more than $1,000 five years from now. Why? Because an investor can invest that $1,000 today and presumably earn a rate of return over the next five years. Present value takes into account any interest rate an investment might earn.



For example, if an investor receives $1,000 today and can earn a rate of return of 5% per year, the $1,000 today is certainly worth more than receiving $1,000 five years from now. If an investor waited five years for $1,000, there would be an opportunity cost or the investor would lose out on the rate of return for the five years.


  Inflation Reduces Future Value  

Inflation is the rise in prices of goods and services over time. If you receive money today, you can buy goods at today's prices. As inflation causes the price of goods to rise in the future, your purchasing power decreases.



Consequently, money that you don't spend today could be expected to lose value in the future by some implied annual rate (which could be the inflation rate or the rate of return if the money were invested).



The present value formula discounts the future value to today's dollars by factoring in the implied annual rate from either inflation or the investment rate of return.


   Present Value Formula and Calculation  
















Present Value


=



FV



(


1


+


r



)


n



















where:
















FV


=


Future Value
















r


=


Rate of return
















n


=


Number of periods







\begin{aligned} &\text{Present Value} = \dfrac{\text{FV}}{(1+r)^n}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{FV} = \text{Future Value}\\ &r = \text{Rate of return}\\ &n = \text{Number of periods}\\ \end{aligned}


​Present Value=(1+r)nFV​where:FV=Future Valuer=Rate of returnn=Number of periods​

Input the future amount that you expect to receive in the numerator of the formula.
Determine the interest rate that you expect to receive between now and the future and plug the rate as a decimal in place of "r" in the denominator.
Input the time period as the exponent "n" in the denominator. So, if you want to calculate the present value of an amount you expect to receive in three years, you would plug in the number three.
A number of online calculators are available, including this present value calculator.


   Determining the Discount Rate  

The discount rate is the investment rate of return that is applied to the present value calculation. In other words, the discount rate would be the forgone rate of return if an investor chose to accept an amount in the future versus the same amount today. The discount rate that is chosen for the present value calculation is highly subjective because it's the expected rate of return you'd receive if you had invested today's dollars for a period of time.



In many cases, a risk-free rate of return is determined and used as the discount rate, which is often called the hurdle rate. The rate represents the rate of return that the investment or project would need to earn in order to be worth pursuing. A U.S. Treasury bond rate is often used as the risk-free rate because Treasuries are backed by the U.S. government. So, for example, if a two-year Treasury paid 2% interest or yield, the investment would need to earn more than 2% to justify the risk.



The discount rate is the sum of the time value and a relevant interest rate that mathematically increases future value in nominal or absolute terms. Conversely, the discount rate is used to work out future value in terms of present value, allowing a lender to settle on the fair amount of any future earnings or obligations in relation to the present value of the capital. The word "discount" refers to future value being discounted to present value.



The calculation of discounted or present value is extremely important in many financial calculations. For example, net present value, bond yields, and pension obligations all rely on discounted or present value. Learning how to use a financial calculator or Excel to make present value calculations can help you decide whether you should accept such offers as a cash rebate, 0% financing on the purchase of a car, or pay points on a mortgage.


   Benefits of Present Value  

Present value can be helpful to investors' and companies' financial and investment decision-making. It can provide valuable insight into whether or not to make certain investments over others.Present value can clarify whether an investment's estimated rate of return is enough to make the future result of the investment worthwhile.In addition, it can serve as a fundamental comparison tool during the investment selection process.Understanding the meaning of present value and employing its formula can shed light on the economic impact of the changing value of money across high inflation periods.


   Limitations of Present Value  

Present value involves an assumption about the discount rate (rate of return). So, those deciding on corporate projects or preparing financial analysis reports can get the results they need by altering that assumption. This isn't helpful for a company's performance or decision-making integrity.Rates of return must be realistic to make a calculation of present value useful. Unfortunately, projected rates of return (and rates of inflation, as well) are just that—projections. So exact values aren't possible.It's important to consider that for any investment decision, no interest rate is guaranteed and inflation can erode value as well.






Future returns are usually compared to a baseline equal to the yield on a U.S. Treasury Bond, rather than zero. This is because Treasurys are considered extremely low risk, and they are used to represent the risk-free rate of return.


   Example of Present Value  

Let's say you have the choice of being paid $2,000 today earning 3% annually or $2,200 one year from now. Which is the best option?



Using the present value formula, the calculation is $2,200 / (1 +. 03)1 = $2,135.92PV = $2,135.92, or the minimum amount that you would need to be paid today to have $2,200 one year from now. In other words, if you were paid $2,000 today and it could earn a 3% interest rate, the amount would not be enough to give you $2,200 one year from now.Alternatively, you could calculate the future value of the $2,000 today in a year's time: 2,000 x 1.03 = $2,060.



Present value provides a basis for assessing the fairness of any future financial benefits or liabilities. For example, a future cash rebate discounted to present value may or may not be worth having a potentially higher purchase price. The same financial calculation applies to 0% financing when buying a car.



Paying some interest on a lower sticker price may work out better for the buyer than paying zero interest on a higher sticker price. Paying mortgage points now in exchange for lower mortgage payments later makes sense only if the present value of the future mortgage savings is greater than the mortgage points paid today.


   Future Value vs. Present Value  

A comparison of present value with future value (FV) best illustrates the principle of the time value of money and the need for charging or paying additional risk-based interest rates. Simply put, the money today is worth more than the same money tomorrow because of the passage of time. Future value can relate to the future cash inflows from investing today's money, or the future payment required to repay money borrowed today.



Future value is the value of a current asset at a specified date in the future based on an assumed rate of growth. The FV equation assumes a constant rate of growth and a single upfront payment left untouched for the duration of the investment. The FV calculation allows investors to predict, with varying degrees of accuracy, the amount of profit that can be generated by different investments.



Present value is the current value of a future sum of money or stream of cash flows given a specified rate of return. Present value takes the future value and applies a discount rate or the interest rate that could be earned if invested. Future value tells you what an investment is worth in the future while the present value tells you how much you'd need in today's dollars to earn a specific amount in the future.




How Do You Calculate Present Value?
Present value is calculated by taking the future cash flows expected from an investment and discounting them back to the present day. To do so, the investor needs three key data points: the expected cash flows, the number of years in which the cash flows will be paid, and their discount rate. The discount rate is a very important factor in influencing the present value, with higher discount rates leading to a lower present value, and vice-versa. Using these variables, investors can calculate the present value using the formula:Present Value=FV(1+r)nwhere:FV=Future Valuer=Rate of returnn=Number of periods\begin{aligned} &\text{Present Value} = \dfrac{\text{FV}}{(1+r)^n}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{FV} = \text{Future Value}\\ &r = \text{Rate of return}\\ &n = \text{Number of periods}\\ \end{aligned}​Present Value=(1+r)nFV​where:FV=Future Valuer=Rate of returnn=Number of periods​




What Is An Example of Present Value?
Consider a scenario where you expect to earn a $5,000 lump sum payment in five years' time. If the discount rate is 8.25%, you want to know what that payment will be worth today. So you calculate the PV: $5,000/(1 + 0.0825)5 = $3,363.80.




Why Is Present Value Important?
Present value is important because it allows investors to judge whether or not the price they pay for an investment is appropriate. Calculating present value (and future value) can help investors when they are presented with the choice of earning a fixed sum for the investment at some point in the future, or gaining a percentage of the principal.Present value calculations are often needed in areas such as investment analysis, risk management, and business financial planning, but the concept is also useful outside of business. For example, understanding the present and future values of an annuity can help you when predicting your retirement income.


   The Bottom Line  

Present value is a way of representing the current value of future cash flows, based on the principle that money in the present is worth more than money in the future. Present value is used to value the income from loans, mortgages, and other assets that may take many years to realize their full value. Investors use these calculations to compare the value of assets with very different time horizons.
What Is the Present Value Interest Factor (PVIF)?  

The present value interest factor (PVIF) is a formula used to estimate the current worth of a sum of money that is to be received at some future date. PVIFs are often presented in the form of a table with values for different time periods and interest rate combinations.


  The Formula for the Present Value Interest Factor Is  

﻿















P


V


I


F


=




a




(


1


+


r



)


n



















where:
















a


=


The future sum to be received
















r


=


The discount interest rate








\begin{aligned} &PVIF = \frac{a}{(1 + r)^{n}}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &a=\text{The future sum to be received}\\ &r=\text{The discount interest rate}\\ &n=\text{The number of years or other time period} \end{aligned}


​PVIF=(1+r)na​where:a=The future sum to be receivedr=The discount interest rate​﻿


   Understanding the PVIF  

The present value interest factor is based on the key financial concept of the time value of money. That is, a sum of money today is worth more than the same sum will be in the future, because money has the potential to grow in value over a given period of time. Provided money can earn interest, any amount of money is worth more the sooner it is received.



Present value interest factors are often used in analyzing annuities. The present value interest factor of an annuity (PVIFA) is useful when deciding whether to take a lump-sum payment now or accept an annuity payment in future periods. Using estimated rates of return, you can compare the value of the annuity payments to the lump sum.



The present value interest factor may only be calculated if the annuity payments are for a predetermined amount spanning a predetermined range of time.





Key Takeaways

Present value interest factors (PVIFs) are used to simplify a calculation of the time-value of a sum of money to be paid in the future.Present value interest factors are commonly used in analyzing annuities.Present value interest factors are available in table form for reference.


   Example of the PVIF  

Here is an example of how to use the PVIF to calculate the present value of a future sum: Assume an individual is going to receive $10,000 five years from now, and that the current discount interest rate is 5%. Using the formula for calculating the PVIF, the calculation would be $10,000 / (1 + .05) ^ 5. The resulting PVIF figure from the calculation is $7,835.26.



The present value of the future sum is then determined by subtracting the PVIF figure from the total future sum to be received. Thus, the present value of the $10,000 to be received five years in the future would be $10,000 - $7,835.26 = $2,164.74.






A PVIF can only be calculated for an annuity payment if the payment is for a predetermined amount and a predetermined period of time.



PVIF tables often provide a fractional number to multiply a specified future sum by using the formula above, which yields the PVIF for one dollar. Then the present value of any future dollar amount can be figured by multiplying any specified amount by the inverse of the PVIF number.
The present value interest factor of an annuity is a factor that can be used to calculate the present value of a series of annuities when it is multiplied by the recurring payment amount. The initial deposit earns interest at the interest rate (r), which perfectly finances a series of (n) consecutive withdrawals and may be written as the following formula:



PVIFA = (1 - (1 + r)^-n) / r



PVIFA is also a variable used when calculating the present value of an ordinary annuity.







Present Value Interest Factor of Annuity (PVIFA)


   Understanding Present Value Interest Factor of Annuity  

The calculation of PVIFA is based on the concept of the time value of money. This idea stipulates that the value of currency received today is worth more than the value of currency received at a future date. This is because the currency received today may be invested and can be used to generate interest.





Key Takeaways

The present value interest factor of an annuity is used to calculate the present value of a series of future annuities.It is based on the time value of money, which states that the value of a currency received today is worth more than the same value of currency received at a future date.


  Present Value Interest Factor of an Annuity, With Tables  

The most common values of both n and r can be found in a PVIFA table, which immediately shows the value of PVIFA. This table is a particularly useful tool for comparing different scenarios with variable n and r values. The rate is displayed across the table's top row, while the first column shows the number of periods.






The major drawback of a present value interest factor table is the necessity to round calculated figures, which sacrifices precision.



The cell in the PVIFA table that corresponds to the appropriate row and column indicates the present value factor. This factor is multiplied against the dollar amount of the recurring payment (annuity payment) in question to arrive at the present value.


   The Usefulness of the Present Value Interest Factor of Annuity  

The present value interest factor of an annuity is useful when determining whether to take a lump-sum payment now or accept an annuity payment in future periods. Using estimated rates of return, you can compare the value of the annuity payments to the lump sum. The present value interest factor may only be calculated if the annuity payments are for a predetermined amount spanning a predetermined range of time.


   Using the Discount Rate for the Present Value Interest Factor  

The discount rate used in the present value interest factor calculation approximates the expected rate of return for future periods. It is adjusted for risk based on the duration of the annuity payments and the investment vehicle utilized. Higher interest rates result in lower net present value calculations. This is because the value of $1 today is diminished if high returns are anticipated in the future.


   Present Value Interest Factor of Annuity Due  

If annuity payments are due at the beginning of the period, the payments are referred to as an annuity due. To calculate the present value interest factor of an annuity due, take the calculation of the present value interest factor and multiply it by (1+r), with "r" being the discount rate.


   Frequently Asked Questions  


How Do You Calculate Present Value Interest Factor for an Annuity?
The formula to calculate PVIFA is (1 - (1 + r)^-n) / r, where r represents the period rate, and n represents the number of payments or withdrawals.




What Is the Present Value Interest Factor of an Annuity Table?
It is a simple table that features the PVIFAs of common combinations of rates and terms. For example, each column might feature a different rate while each row features a different term. The corresponding cell for each rate/term is the PVIFA.




What Is the Relationship Between PVIF and PVIFA?
The PVIF formula calculates the current worth of a lump sum to be received at a future date, while the PVIFA calculates the present value of a series of annuities.


   The Bottom Line  

The present value interest factor of an annuity provides a useful way to determine if a lump-sum payment now is a better option than future annuity payments. Tables exist to help determine the PVIFA depending on variable factors such as rates and number of payments or withdrawals. A precise factor can be calculated using the formula.
What Is the Present Value of an Annuity?  

The present value of an annuity is the current value of future payments from an annuity, given a specified rate of return, or discount rate. The higher the discount rate, the lower the present value of the annuity.



Present value (PV) is an important calculation that relies on the concept of the time value of money, whereby a dollar today is relatively more "valuable" in terms of its purchasing power than a dollar in the future.





Key Takeaways

The present value of an annuity refers to how much money would be needed today to fund a series of future annuity payments.Because of the time value of money, a sum of money received today is worth more than the same sum at a future date.You can use a present value calculation to determine whether you'll receive more money by taking a lump sum now or an annuity spread out over a number of years.







Present Value of an Annuity 


   Understanding the Present Value of an Annuity  

An annuity is a financial product that provides a stream of payments to an individual over a period of time, typically in the form of regular installments. Annuities can be either immediate or deferred, depending on when the payments begin. Immediate annuities start paying out right away, while deferred annuities have a delay before payments begin.



Because of the time value of money, money received today is worth more than the same amount of money in the future because it can be invested in the meantime. By the same logic, $5,000 received today is worth more than the same amount spread over five annual installments of $1,000 each.



Present value is an important concept for annuities because it allows individuals to compare the value of receiving a series of payments in the future to the value of receiving a lump sum payment today. By calculating the present value of an annuity, individuals can determine whether it is more beneficial for them to receive a lump sum payment or to receive an annuity spread out over a number of years. This can be particularly important when making financial decisions, such as whether to take a lump sum payment from a pension plan or to receive a series of payments from an annuity.



The pension provider will determine the commuted value of the payment due to the beneficiary. They do this to ensure they are able to meet future payment obligations.



Present value calculations can also be used to compare the relative value of different annuity options, such as annuities with different payment amounts or different payment schedules.


  Present Value and the Discount Rate  

The discount rate is a key factor in calculating the present value of an annuity. The discount rate is an assumed rate of return or interest rate that is used to determine the present value of future payments.



The discount rate reflects the time value of money, which means that a dollar today is worth more than a dollar in the future because it can be invested and potentially earn a return. The higher the discount rate, the lower the present value of the annuity, because the future payments are discounted more heavily. Conversely, a lower discount rate results in a higher present value for the annuity, because the future payments are discounted less heavily.



In general, the discount rate used to calculate the present value of an annuity should reflect the individual's opportunity cost of capital, or the return they could expect to earn by investing in other financial instruments. For example, if an individual could earn a 5% return by investing in a high-quality corporate bond, they might use a 5% discount rate when calculating the present value of an annuity. The smallest discount rate used in these calculations is the risk-free rate of return. U.S. Treasury bonds are generally considered to be the closest thing to a risk-free investment, so their return is often used for this purpose.



It's important to note that the discount rate used in the present value calculation is not the same as the interest rate that may be applied to the payments in the annuity. The discount rate reflects the time value of money, while the interest rate applied to the annuity payments reflects the cost of borrowing or the return earned on the investment.






The opposite of present value is future value (FV). The FV of money is also calculated using a discount rate, but extends into the future.


   Formula and Calculation of the Present Value of an Annuity  

The formula for the present value of an ordinary annuity, is below. An ordinary annuity pays interest at the end of a particular period, rather than at the beginning:


















P


=


PMT


×




1


−


(



1



(


1


+


r



)


n





)



r

















where:
















P


=


Present value of an annuity stream
















PMT


=


Dollar amount of each annuity payment
















r


=


Interest rate (also known as discount rate)
















n


=


Number of periods in which payments will be made







\begin{aligned} &\text{P} = \text{PMT} \times \frac { 1 - \Big ( \frac { 1 }{ ( 1 + r ) ^ n } \Big ) }{ r } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{P} = \text{Present value of an annuity stream} \\ &\text{PMT} = \text{Dollar amount of each annuity payment} \\ &r = \text{Interest rate (also known as discount rate)} \\ &n = \text{Number of periods in which payments will be made} \\ \end{aligned}


​P=PMT×r1−((1+r)n1​)​where:P=Present value of an annuity streamPMT=Dollar amount of each annuity paymentr=Interest rate (also known as discount rate)n=Number of periods in which payments will be made​


   Example of the Present Value of an Annuity  

Assume a person has the opportunity to receive an ordinary annuity that pays $50,000 per year for the next 25 years, with a 6% discount rate, or take a $650,000 lump-sum payment. Which is the better option? Using the above formula, the present value of the annuity is:











Present value








=


$


50


,


000


×




1


−


(



1



(


1


+


0.06



)


25





)



0.06

















=


$


639


,


168







\begin{aligned} \text{Present value} &= \$50,000 \times \frac { 1 - \Big ( \frac { 1 }{ ( 1 + 0.06 ) ^ {25} } \Big ) }{ 0.06 } \\ &= \$639,168 \\ \end{aligned}


Present value​=$50,000×0.061−((1+0.06)251​)​=$639,168​



Given this information, the annuity is worth $10,832 less on a time-adjusted basis, so the person would come out ahead by choosing the lump-sum payment over the annuity.


   Annuity vs. Annuity Due  

An ordinary annuity makes payments at the end of each time period, while an annuity due makes them at the beginning. All else being equal, the annuity due will be worth more in the present. In the case of an annuity due, since payments are made at the beginning of each period, the formula is slightly different. To find the value of an annuity due, simply multiply the above formula by a factor of (1 + r):


















P


=


PMT


×




1


−


(



1



(


1


+


r



)


n





)



r



×


(


1


+


r


)







\begin{aligned} &\text{P} = \text{PMT} \times \frac { 1 - \Big ( \frac { 1 }{ ( 1 + r ) ^ n } \Big ) }{ r } \times ( 1 + r ) \\ \end{aligned}


​P=PMT×r1−((1+r)n1​)​×(1+r)​



So, if the example above referred to an annuity due, rather than an ordinary annuity, its value would be as follows:











Present value








=


$


50


,


000


×




1


−


(



1



(


1


+


0.06



)


25





)



0.06



×


(


1


+


.


06


)
















=


$


677


,


518







\begin{aligned} \text{Present value} &= \$50,000 \times \frac { 1 - \Big ( \frac { 1 }{ ( 1 + 0.06 ) ^ {25} } \Big ) }{ 0.06 } \times ( 1 + .06 ) \\ &= \$677,518 \\ \end{aligned}


Present value​=$50,000×0.061−((1+0.06)251​)​×(1+.06)=$677,518​



In this case, the person should choose the annuity due option because it is worth $27,518 more than the $650,000 lump sum.




Why Is Future Value (FV) Important to investors?
Future value (FV) is the value of a current asset at a future date based on an assumed rate of growth. It is important to investors as they can use it to estimate how much an investment made today will be worth in the future. This would aid them in making sound investment decisions based on their anticipated needs. However, external economic factors, such as inflation, can adversely affect the future value of the asset by eroding its value.




How Does Ordinary Annuity Differ From Annuity Due?
An ordinary annuity is a series of equal payments made at the end of consecutive periods over a fixed length of time. An example of an ordinary annuity includes loans, such as mortgages. The payment for an annuity due is made at the beginning of each period. A common example of an annuity due payment is rent. This variance in when the payments are made results in different present and future value calculations.




What Is the Formula for the Present Value of an Ordinary Annuity?
The formula for the present value of an ordinary annuity is:P=PMT×1−(1(1+r)n)rwhere:P=Present value of an annuity streamPMT=Dollar amount of each annuity paymentr=Interest rate (also known as discount rate)n=Number of periods in which payments will be made\begin{aligned} &\text{P} = \text{PMT} \times \frac { 1 - \Big ( \frac { 1 }{ ( 1 + r ) ^ n } \Big ) }{ r } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{P} = \text{Present value of an annuity stream} \\ &\text{PMT} = \text{Dollar amount of each annuity payment} \\ &r = \text{Interest rate (also known as discount rate)} \\ &n = \text{Number of periods in which payments will be made} \\ \end{aligned}​P=PMT×r1−((1+r)n1​)​where:P=Present value of an annuity streamPMT=Dollar amount of each annuity paymentr=Interest rate (also known as discount rate)n=Number of periods in which payments will be made​




What Is the Formula for the Present Value of an Annuity Due?
With an annuity due, in which payments are made at the beginning of each period, the formula is slightly different than that of an ordinary annuity. To find the value of an annuity due, simply multiply the above formula by a factor of (1 + r):P=PMT×1−(1(1+r)n)r×(1+r)\begin{aligned} &\text{P} = \text{PMT} \times \frac { 1 - \Big ( \frac { 1 }{ ( 1 + r ) ^ n } \Big ) }{ r } \times ( 1 + r ) \\ \end{aligned}​P=PMT×r1−((1+r)n1​)​×(1+r)​


   The Bottom Line  

The present value (PV) of an annuity is the current value of future payments from an annuity, given a specified rate of return or discount rate. It is calculated using a formula that takes into account the time value of money and the discount rate, which is an assumed rate of return or interest rate over the same duration as the payments. The present value of an annuity can be used to determine whether it is more beneficial to receive a lump sum payment or an annuity spread out over a number of years.
What Is Preservation of Capital?  

Preservation of capital is a conservative investment strategy where the primary goal is to preserve capital and prevent loss in a portfolio. This strategy necessitates investment in the safest short-term instruments, such as Treasury bills and certificates of deposit.



Preservation of capital is also referred to as capital preservation.


   Understanding Preservation of Capital  

Investors hold their funds in various types of investments according to their investment objectives. An investor’s objective or portfolio strategy is dictated by a number of factors, including age, investment experience, family responsibilities, education, annual income, etc.



These factors typically point out how risk-averse an investor is. Common investment objectives include current income, growth, and capital preservation.





Key Takeaways

Preservation of capital is a conservative investment strategy where the primary goal is to preserve capital and prevent loss in a portfolio.Capital preservation strategies necessitate investing in the safest short-term instruments, such as Treasury bills and certificates of deposit.A major drawback of the capital preservation strategy is inflation's effect on return rates from "safe" investments over prolonged periods.


  Risk Tolerance and Investment Objectives  

The current income strategy focuses on investing in securities that can create returns quickly. These include securities such as high-yield bonds and high dividend-paying stocks. The growth strategy involves finding stocks that emphasize capital appreciation with minimum consideration for current income.



Growth investors are willing to tolerate more risk and will invest in growth stocks that have high price-earnings (P/E) ratios. Another common type of investment objective for a portfolio is capital preservation.



Securities that are used for the preservation of capital have little to no risk and, in effect, smaller returns compared to current income and growth strategies. Preservation of capital is a priority for retirees and those approaching retirement, since they may be relying on their investments to generate income to cover their living expenses.



These types of investors have limited time to recoup losses if markets experience a downdraft and give up any potential for high earnings in return for the security of existing capital. Since retirees want to ensure that they don’t outlive their retirement savings, they usually opt for investments with minimal risk such as U.S. Treasury securities, high yield savings accounts, money market accounts, and bank certificates of deposit (CDs).



A majority of investment vehicles used by investors focused on capital preservation are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) up to $250,000. In some, but not all instances, these investors may only be investing their money for the short-term.


  Drawbacks  

A major drawback of the capital preservation strategy is the insidious effect of inflation on the rate of return from "safe" investments over prolonged periods of time. While inflation may not have a significant impact on returns in the short term, over time, it can substantially erode the real value of an investment.



For example, a modest 3% annual inflation rate can slash the real or inflation-adjusted value of an investment by 50% in 24 years. The amount that you have is preserved but, in some cases, the interest you earn on a savings account is unlikely to increase enough in value to offset the gradual loss of purchasing power that is a result of even moderate inflation. As a result, in “real” terms, you could lose value, even though you have the same amount of cash.



For this reason, investors utilizing the capital appreciation strategy are better off investing in inflation-adjusted investments, such as Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS), which are issued by the U.S. government.
What Is a Press Conference?  

A press conference is an event organized to officially distribute information and answer questions from the media. Press conferences are also announced in response to specific public relations issues.



Corporate press conferences are generally led by the company's executive management, press liaison, or communications officer. Given limited resources, particularly during a time of quarterly or annual earnings, it may be difficult to attract major media attention unless a company has a truly unique or newsworthy announcement to share.



Press conferences are held by corporations and other businesses, politicians, and other government officials.





Key Takeaways

Press conferences are events where information is distributed and where the media can ask questions.These events are held to respond to positive and negative news, for product launches, or to inform the media and public about any other information about a company.Most press conferences are announced through a press release, which is a well-crafted written statement outlining the nature of the conference.Press conferences are usually conducted by a company's executive management, press liaison, or communications officer.Lesser-known companies can hold press conferences to increase brand awareness while established companies can share news in the most positive light and increase their stature.


   Understanding a Press Conference  

Press conferences are held by companies or individuals and are attended by the media. During the event, one or more speakers may address those attending. Reporters may then be able to ask questions.



Before a press conference takes place, a company may issue a press release, outlining the nature of the event. At times, these are issued well in advance of the conference.



A company has the opportunity to present a news story in its most favorable light by inviting the press to special events. In other cases, lesser-known companies may want to increase their stature in the media by making it easier for news agencies to cover company events.



By gaining favorable media exposure, companies are able to gain greater brand recognition and authority in the market, usually at a much lower cost than would be required for a widespread advertising campaign.



Press conferences are also called news conferences. When there is no official statement or no questions allowed, the event is called a photo op.


   Why Hold a Press Conference?  

There are many reasons why companies choose to hold press conferences. They may be called to do any of the following:



Respond to earnings, other news, or controversies
Announce the departure or addition of a new executive
Unveil a new production facility
Announce the release of a new product or a merger or acquisition



Of course, these are just some of the instances when a company may call a conference. In some cases, companies may time their press conferences before any news breaks. This can be beneficial to get ahead of any negative news to portray the company in an honest and truthful light as opposed to a company that was trying to hide the negative news.


   Things to Consider Before the Press Conference  

Before holding the press conference—or presser as they're known to journalists—there are a few key points a company will consider.



First, is the press release. In addition to announcing the conference, the release should be well crafted. It should be clear, concise, and to the point. But it should also address the issue at hand, whether that's a positive announcement like a product launch, or in response to negative news or controversy.






The follow up after the press conference is just as important, so any queries that are answered after will carry the same weight.



The location of the presser is also really important. It should be able to accommodate the number of attendees and should have a link to what's being announced. A company may decide to hold the conference at the production facility or in a retail store if it's about a new product launch.



Another consideration is who to invite. Companies generally have a list of media who are apprised of the conference with a copy of the press release. The invitation, just like the release, should be well crafted in order to get the maximum level of people interested.
What Are Pretax Earnings?  

Pretax earnings is a company's income after all operating expenses, including interest and depreciation, have been deducted from total sales or revenues, but before income taxes have been subtracted. Because pretax earnings exclude taxes, this measure enables the intrinsic profitability of companies to be compared across industries or geographic regions where corporate taxes differ. For instance, while U.S.-based corporations face the same tax rates at the federal level, they face different tax rates at the state level.



Also known as pretax income or earnings before tax (EBT).





Key Takeaways

Pretax earnings are a company's income left over after all operating expenses, including interest and depreciation, have been deducted from total sales or revenues, but before income taxes have been subtracted.Pretax earnings provide insight into a company's financial performance before the impact of taxes.Many consider pre-tax earnings as a more accurate measure of business performance and health over time.


   How Pretax Earnings Work  

A company’s pretax earnings provides insight into its financial performance before the impact of tax is employed. Some consider this metric a better measure of performance than net income because certain factors such as tax credits, carry forwards, and carry backs, can have a bearing on a company’s tax expenses in a given year. Pretax earnings is calculated by subtracting a firm’s operating expenses from its gross margin or revenue. Operating expenses include items such as depreciation, insurance, interest, and regulatory fines. For example, a manufacturer with revenues of $100 million in a fiscal year may have $90 million in total operating expenses (including depreciation and interest expenses), excluding taxes. In this case, pretax earnings amount to $10 million. The after-tax earnings figure, or net income, is computed by deducting corporate income taxes from pretax earnings of $10 million.



Businesses may prefer tracking pre-tax earnings over net income as items such as tax deductions and employee benefits paid in one period may differ from another period. In effect, the pre-tax earnings is viewed as a more consistent measure of business performance and fiscal health over time, because it erases the volatile differences brought on by tax considerations.


   Pretax Earnings Margin  

Pretax earnings is used by analysts and investors to calculate the pretax earnings margin, which provides an indication of a company’s profitability. The pretax earnings margin is the ratio of a company's pre-tax earnings to its total sales. The higher the pretax profit margin, the more profitable the company.



For example, assume Company ABC has an annual gross profit of $100,000. It has operating expenses of $50,000, interest expenses of $10,000, and sales totaling $500,000. The pretax earnings is calculated by subtracting the operating and interest costs from the gross profit, that is, $100,000 - $60,000 = $40,000. For the given fiscal year (FY), the pretax earnings margin is $40,000 / $500,000 = 8%.



But Company XYZ which has $750,000 in sales and $50,000 in pretax earnings has a higher profitability than Company ABC in dollars. However, XYZ has a lower pretax earnings margin of $50,000 / $750,000 = 6.7%.


   Pretax Earnings Vs. Taxable Income  

The pretax earnings is shown on a company’s income statements as Earnings Before Taxes. It is the amount on which the corporate tax rate is applied to calculate tax for financial statement purposes. Pretax earnings is determined using guidelines from the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).﻿﻿ Taxable income, on the other hand, is calculated using tax codes governed by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). It is the actual amount of income on which the corporation will pay income tax during the accounting period.﻿﻿
What is a Pretax Profit Margin?  

The pretax profit margin is a financial accounting tool used to measure the operating efficiency of a company. It is a ratio that tells us the percentage of sales that has turned into profits or, in other words, how many cents of profit the business has generated for each dollar of sale before deducting taxes. The pretax profit margin is widely used to compare the profitability of businesses within the same industry.





Key Takeaways

The pretax profit margin is a financial accounting tool used to measure the operating efficiency of a company before deducting taxes.The ratio tells us how many cents of profit the business has generated for each dollar of sale and is a useful tool to compare companies operating in the same sector.The pretax profit margin is sometimes preferred over the regular profit margin as tax expenditures can make profitability comparisons between companies misleading.They are less effective when comparing companies from other sectors as each industry generally has different operating expenses and sales patterns.


   How Pretax Profit Margin Works   

Companies across the globe strive to generate as much profit as possible. For investors, one of the most common and useful measures to gauge corporate profitability is to look at profit margins. Consistently high pretax profit margins are a sign of a healthy company with an efficient business model and pricing power. Low pretax profit margins suggest the opposite.



To boost profitability, management teams must strike a balance between increasing sales and reducing costs. Pretax profit margins give us an indicator of how successful companies are at achieving this goal. As a result, they are closely watched by analysts and investors and frequently referred to in financial statements.



Pretax profit margin only requires two pieces of information from the income statement: revenues and income before taxes. The percentage ratio is calculated by deducting all expenses except for taxes, found in the income before taxes figure, dividing it by sales and then multiplying the resulting number by 100.



Alternatively, the pretax profit margin can be calculated by adding taxes back to net income (NI) or by dividing net income by '1 minus the effective tax-rate' and then dividing by sales.


   Pretax Margin Example  

Company EZ Supply has an annual gross profit of $100,000. It has operating expenses of $50,000, interest expenses of $10,000, and sales totaling $500,000. The calculation of earnings before taxes is from subtracting the operating and interest costs from the gross profit ($100,000 - $60,000). EZ Supply has pretax earnings of $40,000, and total sales of $500,000 for the given fiscal year (FY). The pretax profit margin is calculated by dividing pretax earnings by sales, resulting in a ratio of 8%.


   Advantages of Pretax Profit Margin  

The pretax profit margin offers investors one of the best ways to compare competing companies, as well as those with significant differences in size and scale, in the same industry. Often, profit margins after taxes gains more prominence among analysts and investors. However, it can be argued that tax payments offer little insight into the efficiency of companies and should, therefore, be stripped out of the equation.



Tax expenditures can make profitability comparisons between companies misleading. Tax rates vary from state to state, are generally out of management’s control and aren’t necessarily a fair reflection of how a business is performing.



At times, the tax expense can be more substantial in a current year than in previous years due to tax penalties and new legislation imposing higher tax rates. Alternatively, the present tax expense may be much lower than it had been in earlier years due to tax credits, deductions, and tax breaks. In this case, analysts may be able to decrease earnings volatility by calculating the pretax profit margin.


   Special Considerations   

Though very insightful, pretax profit margins, like other financial ratios, have limitations. For one, they cannot be used effectively to compare companies from other sectors as each industry generally has different operating expenses and sales patterns.



Certain sectors are more profitable than others. Legal services is an example of a high margin profession. Overheads are low — there’s little need for big investment costs, other than salaries — and demand is fairly constant. In contrast, other sectors, such as airlines, have to deal with stiff competition, fluctuating prices for key materials such as fuel, hefty maintenance expenses, and countless other costs. For this same reason, investors should also be cautious about using pretax profit margins when comparing diversified companies serving several industries.



When used correctly, pretax profit margins can provide a useful gauge of business efficiency. However, to get a complete grasp of a company’s health, investors are always advised to use the pretax profit margin in tandem with other metrics. The more you know about a company the better you can establish whether it is worth investing in.
What Is Price Action?  

Price action is the movement of a security's price plotted over time. Price action forms the basis for all technical analyses of a stock, commodity or other asset charts.



Many short-term traders rely exclusively on price action and the formations and trends extrapolated from it to make trading decisions. Technical analysis as a practice is a derivative of price action since it uses past prices in calculations that can then be used to inform trading decisions.





Key Takeaways

Price action generally refers to the changes of a security's price over time.Different looks can be applied to a chart to make trends in price action more obvious for traders. This is especially true when analyzing data covering different time periods. Technical analysis formations and chart patterns are derived from price action. Technical analysis tools like moving averages are also calculated from price action and projected into the future to inform trades.Though many use price action to forecast future prices, prior price action does not guarantee future results.






   What Does Price Action Tell You?  

Price action can be seen and interpreted using charts that plot prices over time. Traders use different chart compositions to improve their ability to spot and interpret trends, breakouts and reversals. Many traders use candlestick charts since they help better visualize price movements by displaying the open, high, low and close values in the context of up or down sessions.



Candlestick patterns such as the Harami cross, engulfing pattern and three white soldiers are all examples of visually interpreted price action. There are many more candlestick formations that are generated off price action to set up an expectation of what will come next. These same formations can apply to other types of charts, including point and figure charts, box charts, box plots and so on.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



In addition to the visual formations on the chart, many technical analysts use price action data when calculating technical indicators. The goal is to find order in the sometimes seemingly random movement of a price. For example, an ascending triangle pattern formed by applying trendlines to a price action chart may be used to predict a potential breakout since the price action indicates that bulls have attempted a breakout on several occasions and have gained momentum each time.


   How to Use Price Action  

Price action is not generally seen as a trading tool like an indicator, but rather the data source off which all the tools are built. Swing traders and trend traders tend to work most closely with price action, eschewing any fundamental analysis in favor of focusing solely on support and resistance levels to predict breakouts and consolidation.



Even these traders must pay some attention to additional factors beyond the current price, as the volume of trading and the periods being used to establish levels all have an impact on the likelihood of their interpretations being accurate.



Many institutions have begun leveraging algorithms to analyze prior price action and execute trades in certain circumstances. In a 2020 report to Congress, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) noted that the "use of algorithms in trading is pervasive." These automated systems are fed price action data and can deduce outcomes and determine potential future price action.


   Limitations of Price Action  

Interpreting price action is very subjective. It's common for two traders to arrive at different conclusions when analyzing the same price action. One trader may see a bearish downtrend and another might believe that the price action shows a potential near-term turnaround. Of course, the time period being used also has a huge influence on what traders see as a stock can have many intraday downtrends while maintaining a month-over-month uptrend.



The important thing to remember is that trading predictions made using price action on any time scale are speculative. The more tools you can apply to your trading prediction to confirm it, the better.



In the end, however, the past price action of a security is no guarantee of future price action. High probability trades are still speculative trades, which means traders take on the risks to get access to the potential rewards. Price action does not explicitly incorporate macroeconomic or non-financial matters impacting a security.




How Can I Use Price Action in Trading?
Price action is used to analyze trends and identify entry and exit points when trading. Many traders use candlestick charts to plot prior price action, then plot potential breakout and revering patterns. Although prior price action does not guarantee future results, traders often analyze a security's historical patterns to better understand where the price may move to next.




How Do I Read Price Action?
Price action is often depicted graphically in the form of a bar chart or line chart. There are two general factors to consider when analyzing price action. The first is to identify the direction of the price, and the second is to identify the direction of the volume.Should a security's price be moving upward while the volume increases, this means there is strong conviction in the market as many investors are buying at the increasing price. Alternatively, should there have been low volume, the price action may not be as convincing as not many investors are choosing to invest at the current pricing levels.




What Is Bullish Price Action?
Bullish price action is an indicator giving positive signals that a security's price is due for future increases. For exactly, one bullish trend is often defined by "higher highs" and "higher lows" forming an ascending triangle pattern. This means the price action of a security recently surpassed a high price but remained higher than a recent low price.




Is Price Action Good for Swing Trading?
Swing traders rely on price movement; if a security's price remains unchanged, it is harder to seek opportunities to profit. In general, price action is good for swing traders because traders can identify the oscillations up and down and trade accordingly.
What Is a Price Ceiling?  

A price ceiling is the mandated maximum amount a seller is allowed to charge for a product or service. Usually set by law, price ceilings are typically applied to staples such as food and energy products when such goods become unaffordable to regular consumers.



A price ceiling is essentially a type of price control. Price ceilings can be advantageous in allowing essentials to be affordable, at least temporarily. However, economists question how beneficial such ceilings are in the long run.





Key Takeaways

A price ceiling is a type of price control, usually government-mandated, that sets the maximum amount a seller can charge for a good or service.Price ceilings are typically imposed on consumer staples, like food, gas, or medicine, often after a crisis or particular event sends costs skyrocketing.The opposite of a price ceiling is a price floor—a point below which prices can't be set.While they make staples affordable for consumers in the short term, price ceilings often carry long-term disadvantages, such as shortages, extra charges, or lower quality products.Economists worry that price ceilings cause a deadweight loss to an economy, making it more inefficient.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   How a Price Ceiling Works  

Price ceilings are implemented when a regulator sets a maximum price they believe is acceptable or appropriate. All sellersr must offer its product at a price equal to or below that amount, and the sale of goods (in addition to how companies offer their products) are regulated and monitored.



Regulators also review the price ceiling regularly to ensure it still represents an appropriate level. These regulators perpetually evaluate market supply and demand to best understand whether the price ceiling needs to increased or decreased. Consider an example where a good may experience an unexpected shortage. In this case, the regulators may decide a price ceiling may negatively influence producers or be impacting product quality, thus necessitating the removal of the ceiling.



While price ceilings might seem to be an obviously good thing for consumers, they also carry long-term ramifications. Certainly, costs go down in the short run, which can stimulate demand. However, producers need to find some way to compensate for the price (and profit) controls. They may ration supply, cut back on production or production quality, or charge extra for (formerly free) options and features. As a result, economists wonder how efficient price ceilings can be at protecting the most vulnerable consumers from high costs or even protecting them at all.



A broader and more theoretical objection to price ceilings is that they create a deadweight loss to society. This describes an economic deficiency, caused by an inefficient allocation of resources, that disturbs the equilibrium of a marketplace and contributes to making it more inefficient.


   Real-World Cases of Price Ceilings  

There are several instances of government-enforced price ceilings, usually for goods that are considered essential or necessary. The following are some common examples of price ceilings.


  Rent Ceilings  

Some areas have rent ceilings to protect renters from rapidly climbing rates on residences. Such rent controls are a frequently cited example of the ineffectiveness of price controls in general and price ceilings in particular.



In the late 1940s, rent controls were widely implemented in New York City and throughout New York State. In the aftermath of World War II, homecoming veterans were flocking and establishing families—and rent rates for apartments were skyrocketing, as a major housing shortage ensued. The original post-war rent control applied only to specific types of buildings. However, it continued in a somewhat less restricted form, called rent stabilization, into the 1970s.






In New York City, rent control tenants are generally in buildings built before Feb. 1, 1947, where the tenant is in continuous occupancy prior to July 1, 1971. Rent stabilization applies to buildings of six or more units built between Feb. 1, 1947, and Dec. 31, 1973.



The aim was to help maintain an adequate supply of affordable housing in the cities. However, the actual effect, critics say, has been to reduce the overall supply of available residential rental units in New York City, which in turn has led to even higher prices in the market.



Further, some housing analysts say, controlled rental rates also discourage landlords from having the needed funds, or at least committing the necessary expenditures, to maintain or improve rental properties, leading to deterioration in the quality of rental housing.


  Food and Fuel Price Caps  

Some governments may cap the prices of essential goods, such as food and fuel, in order to ensure access to these essential goods and prevent profiteering. For example, following the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the German government pledged to cap energy prices due to the shortage of Russian natural gas.


  Cost Caps for Prescription Drugs and Laboratory Tests  

In the United States, there is a strong incentive by medical equipment and drug manufacturers to raise prices, knowing that the increased cost will most likely fall on taxpayers or insurance companies. In order to prevent further price rises, president Biden signed the Inflation Reduction Act, which includes price caps on the negotiated prices of certain drugs.


  Rideshares  

As popularity of Uber and other rideshare services proliferated, these rideshare services could charge much higher fares during peak hours. This price variability concerned India, and the Karnataka government decided to implement the price per kilometer Uber and other rideshares could charge. In the long-run, the government noted that even though more passengers demonstrated interest in using rideshare services, passengers often needed to wait longer to get an Uber because fewer drivers were incentivized.


  Salary Cap  

Popular in professional sports, price ceilings may relate to the maximum amount a single employee may receive in compensation. Consider the agreement between the National Basketball Association and the National Basketball Players Association. The collective bargaining agreement between the two associations outlines a number of situations where a player is eligible to receive a maximum salary. Below is a snipped for newer players in the league with less than seven years of service.















NBA Collective Bargaining Agreement, Select Section.


   Price Ceiling vs. Price Floor  

The opposite of a price ceiling is a price floor, which sets a minimum purchase cost for a product or service. Also known as “price support,” it represents the lowest legal amount at which a good or service may be sold and still function within the traditional supply and demand model.






A minimum wage is a familiar type of price floor. Operating on the premise that someone working full time ought to earn enough to afford a basic standard of living, it sets the lowest legal amount that a job can pay.



Both floors and ceilings are forms of price controls. Like a price ceiling, a price floor may be set by the government or, in some cases, by producers themselves. Federal or municipal authorities may actually name specific figures for the floors, but often they operate simply by entering the market and buying the product, thus propping its prices up above a certain level.



Many countries periodically impose floors on agricultural crops and products, for example, to mitigate the swings in supply and farmers' income that can commonly occur, due to factors beyond their control.


   Effects of Price Ceilings  

Although price ceilings are intended to ensure access to the most essential goods, they may sometimes have the counterintuitive effect of making those goods less accessible. This is because the government-enforced price does not reflect the market forces of supply and demand.



For example, many municipal governments enforce policies that limit raises in rental prices, in order to keep housing more affordable. This means that landlords are unable to raise rents when housing is in short supply. Because of these restrictions, developers are less likely to fund new developments, because their profits will be limited by existing rent controls. As a result, the supply of housing is less likely to increase in those cities, even when there is a shortage.


   Types of Price Ceilings  

Depending on the good being regulated and the entity doing the regulating, there are several types of price ceilings that governments can implement. Below is a list of the more common types of price ceilings.



Absolute Price Ceiling: This is a fixed limit on the price that can be charged for a good or service. The price cannot go higher than this limit. A government can vote or decide to periodically change the absolute price ceiling, though these ceiling limit changes are often infrequent to uphold the usefulness of the regulation.Relative Price Ceiling: This is a limit on the price of a good or service in relation to another good or service. For example, a government might set a relative price ceiling on the price of rent in relation to the average income of renters in a particular area. In this example, the government would closely monitor the independent variable to better understand how the dependent variable's price ceiling fluctuates.Per Unit Price Ceiling: This is a limit on the price of a good or service per unit. For example, a government might set a per unit price ceiling on the price of gasoline. This type of price ceiling is similar to the absolute price ceiling, though a consumer could theoretically spend as much as they want if they were to buy higher amounts of quantities.Periodic Price Ceiling: This is a limit on the price of a good or service for a specific period of time. For example, a government might set a periodic price ceiling on the price of electricity during the summer months when demand is high. Governments may enact periodic price ceilings during times of emergencySelective Price Ceiling: This is a limit on the price of a specific type of good or service. For example, a government might set a selective price ceiling on the price of prescription drugs to make them more affordable for consumers.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Price Ceilings  

The big pro of a price ceiling is, of course, the limit on costs for the consumer. It keeps things affordable and prevents price-gouging or producers/suppliers from taking unfair advantage of them. If it's just a temporary shortage that's causing rampant inflation, ceilings can mitigate the pain of higher prices until supply returns to normal levels again. Price ceilings can also stimulate demand and encourage spending.



So, in the short term, price ceilings have their advantages. They can get to be a problem, though, if they continue too long, or when they are set too far below the market equilibrium price (when the quantity demanded equals the quantity supplied). 



When they do, demand can skyrocket, leading to shortages in supply. Also, if the prices producers are allowed to charge are too out of line with their production costs and business expenses, something will have to give. They may have to cut corners, reduce quality, or charge higher prices on other products. They may have to discontinue offerings or not produce as much (causing more shortages). Some may be driven out of business if they can't realize a reasonable profit on their goods and services.





Pros

Keeps prices affordable
Prevents price-gouging
Stimulates demand



Cons

Often causes supply shortages
May induce loss of quality, corner-cutting
May lead to extra charges or boosted prices on other goods





   Example of a Price Ceiling  

In the 1970s, the U.S. government imposed price ceilings on gasoline after some sharp rises in oil prices. As a result, shortages quickly developed. The regulated prices seemed to function as a disincentive to domestic oil companies to step up (or even maintain) production, as was needed to counter interruptions in oil supply from the Middle East.



As supplies fell short of demand, shortages developed and rationing was often imposed through schemes like alternating days in which only cars with odd- and even-numbered license plates would be served. Those long waits imposed costs on the economy and motorists through lost wages and other negative economic impacts.



The supposed economic relief of controlled gas prices was also offset by some new expenses. Some gas stations sought to compensate for lost revenue by making formerly optional services such as washing the windshield a required part of filling up and imposed charges for them.



The consensus of economists is that consumers would have been better off in every respect had controls never been applied. If the government had simply let prices increase, they argue, the long lines at gas stations would never have developed. Oil companies would have bumped up production, due to the higher prices, and consumers, who now had a stronger incentive to conserve gas, would have limited their driving or bought more energy-efficient cars.




What Does Price Ceiling Mean?
A price ceiling, aka a price cap, is the highest point at which goods and services can be sold. It is a type of price control and the maximum amount that can be charged for something. It often is set by government authorities to help consumers, when it seems that prices are excessively high or rising out of control.




What Are Price Ceiling Examples?
Rent controls, which limit how much landlords can charge monthly for residences (and often by how much they can increase rents) are an example of a price ceiling.Caps on the costs of prescription drugs and lab tests are another example of a common price ceiling. In addition, insurance companies often set caps on the amount they'll reimburse a doctor for a procedure, treatment, or office visit.




What Is Price Ceiling and Price Floor?
Price ceilings and price floors are the two types of price controls. They do the opposite thing, as their names suggest. A price ceiling puts a limit on the most you have to pay or that you can charge for something—it sets a maximum cost, keeping prices from rising above a certain level.A price floor establishes a minimum cost for something, a bottom-line benchmark. It keeps a price from falling below a particular level.




How Do You Calculate a Price Ceiling?
Governments typically calculate price ceilings that attempt to match the supply and demand curve for the product or service in question at an economic equilibrium point. In other words, they try to impose control within the boundaries of what the natural market will bear. However, over time, the price ceiling itself can impact the supply and demand of the product or service. In such cases, the calculated price ceiling may result in shortages or reduced quality.


   The Bottom Line  

Price ceilings prevent a price from rising above a certain level. They are a form of price control. While in the short run, they often benefit consumers, the long-term effects of price ceilings are complex. They can negatively impact producers and sometimes even the consumers they aim to help, by causing supply shortages and a decline in the quality of goods and services.
What Are Price Controls?  

The term "price controls" refers to the legal minimum or maximum prices set for specified goods. Price controls are normally mandated by the government in the free market. They are usually implemented as a means of direct economic intervention to manage the affordability of certain goods and services, including rent, gasoline, and food. Although it may make certain goods and services more affordable, price controls can often lead to disruptions in the market, losses for producers, and a noticeable change in quality.





Key Takeaways

Price controls are government-mandated minimum or maximum prices set for specific goods and services.Price controls are put in place to manage the affordability of goods and services on the market.Minimums are called price floors while maximums are called price ceilings.These controls are only effective on an extremely short-term basis.Over the long term, price controls can lead to problems such as shortages, rationing, inferior product quality, and illegal markets.


   Understanding Price Controls  

As mentioned above, price controls are a form of government-mandated economic intervention. They are meant to make things more affordable for consumers and are also commonly used to help steer the economy in a certain direction. For instance, these restrictions may be deemed necessary in order to curb inflation. Price controls are opposite to prices set by market forces, which are determined by producers because of supply and demand.



Price controls are commonly imposed on consumer staples. These are essential items, such as food or energy products. For instance, prices were capped for things like rent and gasoline in the United States. Controls set by the government may impose minimums or maximums. Price caps are referred to as price ceilings while minimum prices are called price floors.



Although the reasons for price controls may be affordability and economic stability, they may have the opposite effect. Over the long term, price controls have been known to lead to problems such as shortages, rationing, deterioration of product quality, and illegal markets that arise to supply the price-controlled goods through unofficial channels. Producers may experience losses, especially if prices are set too low. This can often lead to a drop in the quality of available goods and services.






Some economists believe that price controls are usually only effective on an extremely short-term basis.


   History of Price Controls  

Price controls aren't a new concept. They go back thousands of years. According to historians, the production and distribution of grain were regulated by Egyptian authorities in the third century B.C. Other civilizations implemented price controls, including the Babylonians, the ancient Greeks, and the Roman empire.



We can find instances of price control in more modern times, including during times of war and revolution. In the United States, colonial governments controlled the prices of commodities required by George Washington's army, which resulted in severe shortages.



Governments continue to intervene and set limits on how producers can price their products and services. For instance, municipal governments often limit how much rent a landlord can collect from their tenants and the amount by which they can increase these rents to make housing more affordable. The U.S. government also set price caps on energy prices during times of crisis, including World War I and II and between 1971 and 1973.


   Types of Price Controls  

Price controls come in two forms: Price floors and price ceilings. Price floors are the minimum prices set for goods and services. They may be set by the government or, in some cases, by producers themselves. Minimum prices are imposed to help producers when authorities believe that prices are too low, leading to an unfair market. Once set, prices can't fall below the minimum.



Price ceilings or caps are the highest points at which goods and services can be sold. This occurs when authorities want to help consumers if they feel that prices are far too high. This is especially true in the case of rent control when government agencies want to protect tenants from slumlords and overzealous landlords. Just like price floors, prices can't go above ceilings once they're set.


   Example of Price Controls  

Rent control is one of the most common forms of price control. Government programs establish limits on the maximum amount of rent a property owner can collect from their tenants. These limits are also imposed on annual rent increases. The rationale behind rent control is that it helps keep housing affordable, especially for more vulnerable people like those with lower incomes and aging adults.



Governments commonly impose controls on drug prices. This is especially true for life-saving and specialty medications like insulin. Drug companies often come under pressure for setting prices too high. Their rationale is normally patent protection and to cover the expensive costs of research and development (R&D) and distribution. Consumers and governments say this puts certain medications out of reach for the average citizen.



Minimum wages are considered a form of price control as well. In this case, it is a price floor or the lowest possible salary an employer can pay to their employees. Minimum wages ensure that individuals can maintain a specific standard of living.






Sports franchises often put price controls through a method called dynamic pricing. For example, tickets to a New York Yankee baseball game are subject to variable prices that may differ from other games. According to Major League Baseball, these prices are based on changing factors that affect market demand.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Price Controls  
  Advantages  

Price controls are often imposed when governments feel that consumers can't afford goods and services. For instance, price ceilings are established to prevent producers from price gouging. This is common in the housing/rental industry and in the drug/health sector.



Governments may also set price limits on goods and services if they feel that producers aren't benefiting from how goods and services are priced in the free market. This allows companies to remain competitive and ensure that they are profitable.



Controlling how prices are set keeps companies from developing monopolies. Companies are at an advantage and can dictate prices when demand is high (and supply is short). As such, they may be able to inflate prices to boost their profits. Governments can intervene and set price ceilings to prevent suppliers from continuing to raise prices, allow competitors to enter the market, and crush monopolies that exploit consumers.


  Disadvantages  

Price controls may be enacted with the best of intentions, but they often don't work. Most attempts to control prices often struggle to overcome the economic forces of supply and demand for any significant length of time. When prices are established by commerce in a free market, prices shift to maintain the balance between supply and demand. Government-imposed price controls can lead to the creation of excess demand in the case of price ceilings, or excess supply in the case of price floors.



Critics say that, as a result, price controls often lead to an imbalance between supply and demand. This can, in turn, lead to shortages and underground markets. When prices are too low enough for things like housing, there may not be enough supply, thereby increasing demand. For instance, landlords may let the condition of their properties deteriorate because they aren't making enough to maintain them.



Price controls can lead to losses and a significant drop in quality. When prices are too low, there's a good chance that producer revenue drops. They may have to find a way to cut down on costs. Some may choose to cut down production or may end up putting more inferior products out on the market. As a result, R&D drops, while newer and more innovative products stop appearing on the market.





Pros

Protects consumers by eliminating price gouging
Helps producers remain competitive and profitable
Eliminates monopolies



Cons

Can lead to shortages and illegal markets
May create excess demand or excess supply
Often result in losses for producers and a drop in quality of products and services







What Is Meant by Price Control?
Price control is an economic policy imposed by governments that set minimums (floors) and maximums (ceilings) for the prices of goods and services in order to make them more affordable for consumers.




What Are Examples of Price Controls?
Some of the most common examples of price controls include rent control (where governments impose a maximum amount of rent that a property owner can charge and the limit by how much rent can be increased each year), prices on drugs (to make medication and health care more affordable), and minimum wages (the lowest possible wage a company can pay its employees).




What Are Price Controls in Economics?
Price controls in economics are restrictions imposed by governments to ensure that goods and services remain affordable. They are also used to create a fair market that is accessible by all. The point of price controls is to help curb inflation and to create balance in the market.




Are Price Controls Good or Bad?
Price controls can be both good and bad. They help make certain goods and services, such as food and housing, more affordable and within reach of consumers. They can also help corporations by eliminating monopolies and opening up the market to more competition. But it can also have a negative effect, as it may lead to shortages or an overabundance of supplies, underground markets, and a decrease in the quality of goods and services available on the market.


   The Bottom Line  

Unlike the free market, where prices are dictated by supply and demand, price controls set minimum and maximum prices for goods and services. Governments and supporters of price controls say that these policies are necessary in order to make things more amenable for both consumers and suppliers. By enacting price control policies, consumers can afford essential goods and services and producers can remain profitable. But critics say it often has the opposite effect, leading to an imbalance in the market between supply and demand, and illegal markets.
What Is Price Discovery?  

Price discovery is the overall process, whether explicit or inferred, of setting the spot price or the proper price of an asset, security, commodity, or currency. The process of price discovery looks at a number of tangible and intangible factors, including supply and demand, investor risk attitudes, and the overall economic and geopolitical environment. Simply put, it is where a buyer and a seller agree on a price and a transaction occurs.





Key Takeaways

Price discovery is the process of finding out the price of a given asset or commodity.Price discovery is the central function of a marketplaceIt depends on a variety of tangible and intangible factors, from market structure to liquidity to information flow.


   Understanding Price Discovery  

At its core, price discovery involves finding where supply and demand meet. In economics, the supply curve and the demand curve intersect at a single price, which then allows a transaction to occur. The shape of those curves is subject to many factors, from transaction size to background conditions of previous or future scarcity or abundance. Location, storage, transaction costs, and buyer/seller psychology also play a role. There is no specific formula using all these factors as variables. Indeed, the formula is a dynamic process that can change frequently, if not from trade to trade.



While the term itself is relatively new, price discovery has been around for millennia as a process. Ancient souqs in the Middle East and market places in Europe, the Indian subcontinent, and China brought together large collections of traders and buyers to determine prices of goods. In modern times, derivatives traders in the pits of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) used hand signals and verbal cues to determine prices for a given commodity. Electronic trading has replaced most of the manual processes with mixed results. While it has significantly increased trading volumes and liquidity, electronic trading has also resulted in more volatility and less transparency with regard to large positions.


   Price Discovery As a Process  

Rather than consider price discovery to be a specific process, it should be considered the central function in any marketplace, whether it be a financial exchange or the local farmer's market. The market itself brings potential buyers and sellers together, with members of each side having very different reasons for trading and very different styles for doing so. By allowing all buyers and sellers to come together, these marketplaces allow all parties to interact and by doing so a consensus price is established. Without knowing it, all the players do it again to set the very next price, and so on. 



Price discovery is influenced by a wide variety of factors. Among these factors are the stage of market development, its structure, security type, and information available in the market. Those parties with the freshest or highest quality information can have an advantage as they can act before others get that information. When new information arrives, it changes both the current and future condition of the market and therefore can change the price at which both sides are willing to trade. However, too much transparency in information can be detrimental to a market because it increases the risks for traders moving large or significant positions.


   Price Discovery vs. Valuation  

Price discovery is not the same as valuation. Where price discovery is a market-driven mechanism, valuation is a model-driven mechanism. Valuation is the present value of presumed cash flows, interest rates, competitive analysis, technological changes both in place and envisioned, and many other factors.



Other names for valuation of an asset are fair value and intrinsic value. By comparing market value to valuation, some analysts can determine if an asset is overpriced or underpriced by the market. Of course, the market price is the actual correct price, but any differences may provide trading opportunities if and when the market price adjusts to include any information in the valuation models not previously considered.
What Is Price Discrimination?  

Price discrimination is a selling strategy that charges customers different prices for the same product or service based on what the seller thinks they can get the customer to agree to. In pure price discrimination, the seller charges each customer the maximum price they will pay. In more common forms of price discrimination, the seller places customers in groups based on certain attributes and charges each group a different price.





Key Takeaways

With price discrimination, a seller charges customers a different fee for the same product or service.With first-degree discrimination, the company charges the maximum possible price for each unit consumed.Second-degree discrimination involves discounts for products or services bought in bulk, while third-degree discrimination reflects different prices for different consumer groups.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Understanding Price Discrimination  

Price discrimination is practiced based on the seller's belief that customers in certain groups can be asked to pay more or less based on certain demographics or on how they value the product or service in question.



Price discrimination is most valuable when the profit that is earned as a result of separating the markets is greater than the profit that is earned as a result of keeping the markets combined. Whether price discrimination works and for how long the various groups are willing to pay different prices for the same product depends on the relative elasticities of demand in the sub-markets. Consumers in a relatively inelastic submarket pay a higher price, while those in a relatively elastic sub-market pay a lower price.






Price discrimination charges customers different prices for the same products based on a bias toward groups of people with certain characteristics.



With price discrimination, the company looking to make the sales identify different market segments, such as domestic and industrial users, with different price elasticities. Markets must be kept separate by time, physical distance, and nature of use.



For example, the Microsoft Office Schools edition is available for a lower price to educational institutions than to other users. The markets cannot overlap so that consumers who purchase at a lower price in the elastic sub-market could resell at a higher price in the inelastic sub-market. The company must also have monopoly power to make price discrimination more effective.


   Types of Price Discrimination  

There are three types of price discrimination: first-degree or perfect price discrimination, second-degree, and third-degree. These degrees of price discrimination are also known as personalized pricing (1st-degree pricing), product versioning or menu pricing (2nd-degree pricing), and group pricing (3rd-degree pricing).


  First-Degree Price Discrimination  

First-degree discrimination, or perfect price discrimination, occurs when a business charges the maximum possible price for each unit consumed. Because prices vary among units, the firm captures all available consumer surplus for itself or the economic surplus. Many industries involving client services practice first-degree price discrimination, where a company charges a different price for every good or service sold.


  Second-Degree Price Discrimination  

Second-degree price discrimination occurs when a company charges a different price for different quantities consumed, such as quantity discounts on bulk purchases.


  Third-Degree Price Discrimination  

Third-degree price discrimination occurs when a company charges a different price to different consumer groups. For example, a theater may divide moviegoers into seniors, adults, and children, each paying a different price when seeing the same movie. This discrimination is the most common.


   Examples of Price Discrimination  

Many industries, such as the airline industry, the arts/entertainment industry, and the pharmaceutical industry, use price discrimination strategies. Examples of price discrimination include issuing coupons, applying specific discounts (e.g., age discounts), and creating loyalty programs. One example of price discrimination can be seen in the airline industry. Consumers buying airline tickets several months in advance typically pay less than consumers purchasing at the last minute. When demand for a particular flight is high, airlines raise ticket prices in response.



By contrast, when tickets for a flight are not selling well, the airline reduces the cost of available tickets to try to generate sales. Because many passengers prefer flying home late on Sunday, those flights tend to be more expensive than flights leaving early Sunday morning. Airline passengers typically pay more for additional legroom too.




Is Price Discrimination Illegal?
The word discrimination in price discrimination does not typically refer to something illegal or derogatory in most cases. Instead, it refers to firms being able to change the prices of their products or services dynamically as market conditions change, charging different users different prices for similar services, or charging the same price for services with different costs. Neither practice violates any U.S. laws—it would become unlawful only if it creates or leads to specific economic harm. 




Wouldn’t Consumers Be Better Off If Everybody Paid the Same Price?
In many cases, no. Different customer segments have different characteristics and different price points that they are willing to pay. If everything were priced at say the "average cost," people with lower price points could never afford it. Likewise, those with higher price points could hoard it. This is what is known as market segmentation. Economists have also identified market mechanisms whereby fixing static prices can lead to market inefficiencies from both the supply and demand sides.




When Can Companies Successfully Apply Price Discrimination?
Economists have identified three conditions that must be met for price discrimination to occur. First, the company needs to have sufficient market power. Second, it has to identify differences in demand based on different conditions or customer segments. Third, the firm must have the ability to protect its product from being resold by one consumer group to another.
What Is the Price/Earnings-to-Growth (PEG) Ratio?  

The price/earnings to growth ratio (PEG ratio) is a stock's price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio divided by the growth rate of its earnings for a specified time period.



The PEG ratio is used to determine a stock's value while also factoring in the company's expected earnings growth, and it is thought to provide a more complete picture than the more standard P/E ratio.





Key Takeaways

The PEG ratio enhances the P/E ratio by adding expected earnings growth into the calculation.The PEG ratio is considered to be an indicator of a stock's true value, and similar to the P/E ratio, a lower PEG may indicate that a stock is undervalued.The PEG for a given company may differ significantly from one reported source to another.Differences will depend on which growth estimate is used in the calculation, such as one-year or three-year projected growth.A PEG lower than 1.0 is best, suggesting that a company is relatively undervalued.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   How to Calculate the PEG Ratio  
















PEG Ratio


=



Price/EPS


EPS Growth

















where:
















EPS = The earnings per share







\begin{aligned} &\text{PEG Ratio}=\frac{\text{Price/EPS}}{\text{EPS Growth}}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{EPS = The earnings per share}\\ \end{aligned}


​PEG Ratio=EPS GrowthPrice/EPS​where:EPS = The earnings per share​



To calculate the PEG ratio, an investor or analyst needs to either look up or calculate the P/E ratio of the company in question. The P/E ratio is calculated as the price per share of the company divided by the earnings per share (EPS), or price per share / EPS.



Once the P/E is calculated, find the expected growth rate for the stock in question, using analyst estimates available on financial websites that follow the stock. Plug the figures into the equation, and solve for the PEG ratio number.


  Accuracy  

As with any ratio, the accuracy of the PEG ratio depends on the inputs used. When considering a company's PEG ratio from a published source, it's important to find out which growth rate was used in the calculation. In an article from Morgan Stanley Wealth Management, for example, the PEG ratio is calculated using a P/E ratio based on current-year data and a five-year expected growth rate.



Using historical growth rates, for example, may provide an inaccurate PEG ratio if future growth rates are expected to deviate from a company's historical growth. The ratio can be calculated using one-year, three-year, or five-year expected growth rates, for example.






To distinguish between calculation methods using future growth and historical growth, the terms "forward PEG" and "trailing PEG" are sometimes used.


   What Does the PEG Ratio Tell You?  

While a low P/E ratio may make a stock look like a good buy, factoring in the company's growth rate to get the stock's PEG ratio may tell a different story. The lower the PEG ratio, the more the stock may be undervalued given its future earnings expectations. Adding a company's expected growth into the ratio helps to adjust the result for companies that may have a high growth rate and a high P/E ratio.



The degree to which a PEG ratio result indicates an over or underpriced stock varies by industry and by company type. As a broad rule of thumb, some investors feel that a PEG ratio below one is desirable.



According to well-known investor Peter Lynch, a company's P/E and expected growth should be equal, which denotes a fairly valued company and supports a PEG ratio of 1.0. When a company's PEG exceeds 1.0, it's considered overvalued while a stock with a PEG of less than 1.0 is considered undervalued.


   Example of How to Use the PEG Ratio  

The PEG ratio provides useful information to compare companies and see which stock might be the better choice for an investor's needs, as follows.



Assume the following data for two hypothetical companies, Company A and Company B:


  Company A:  

Price per share = $46EPS this year = $2.09EPS last year = $1.74


  Company B  

Price per share = $80EPS this year = $2.67EPS last year = $1.78



Given this information, the following data can be calculated for each company:



Company A



P/E ratio = $46 / $2.09 = 22Earnings growth rate = ($2.09 / $1.74) - 1 = 20%PEG ratio = 22 / 20 = 1.1



Company B



P/E ratio = $80 / $2.67 = 30Earnings growth rate = ($2.67 / $1.78) - 1 = 50%PEG ratio = 30 / 50 = 0.6



Many investors may look at Company A and find it more attractive since it has a lower P/E ratio among the two companies. But compared to Company B, it doesn't have a high enough growth rate to justify its current P/E. Company B is trading at a discount to its growth rate and investors purchasing it are paying less per unit of earnings growth. Based on its lower PEG, Company B may be relatively the better buy.




What Is Considered to Be a Good PEG Ratio?
In general, a good PEG ratio has a value lower than 1.0. PEG ratios greater than 1.0 are generally considered unfavorable, suggesting a stock is overvalued. Meanwhile, PEG ratios lower than 1.0 are considered better, indicating a stock is relatively undervalued.




What Is Better: A Higher or Lower PEG Ratio?
Lower PEG ratios are better, especially ratios under 1.0.




What Does a Negative PEG Ratio Indicate?
A negative PEG can result from either negative earnings (losses), or a negative estimated growth rate. Either case suggests that a company may be in trouble.


   The Bottom Line  

While the P/E ratio is more commonly used by investors, the PEG ratio improves upon the P/E by incorporating earnings growth estimates. This provides a fuller picture of a company's relative value in the market. However, because it relies on earnings estimates, having good estimates is key. A bad forecast or assumption, or naively projecting historical growth rates into the future, can produce unreliable PEG ratios.
What Is Price Elasticity of Demand?  

Price elasticity of demand is a measurement of the change in the consumption of a product in relation to a change in its price. Expressed mathematically, it is:



Price Elasticity of Demand = Percentage Change in Quantity Demanded ÷ Percentage Change in Price



Economists use price elasticity to understand how supply and demand for a product change when its price changes. Like demand, supply also has an elasticity, known as price elasticity of supply. Price elasticity of supply refers to the relationship between change in supply and change in price. It’s calculated by dividing the percentage change in quantity supplied by the percentage change in price. Together, the two elasticities combine to determine what goods are produced at what prices.





Key Takeaways

Price elasticity of demand is a measurement of the change in consumption of a product in relation to a change in its price.A good is perfectly elastic if the price elasticity is infinite (if demand changes substantially even with minimal price change).If price elasticity is greater than 1, the good is elastic; if less than 1, it is inelastic.If a good’s price elasticity is 0 (no amount of price change produces a change in demand), it is perfectly inelastic.If price elasticity is exactly 1 (price change leads to an equal percentage change in demand), it is known as unitary elasticity.The availability of a substitute for a product affects its elasticity. If there are no good substitutes and the product is necessary, demand won’t change when the price goes up, making it inelastic.












Theresa Chiechi / Investopedia


   Understanding Price Elasticity of Demand  

Economists have found that the prices of some goods are very inelastic. That is, a reduction in price does not increase demand much, and an increase in price does not hurt demand, either. For example, gasoline has little price elasticity of demand. Drivers will continue to buy as much as they have to, as will airlines, the trucking industry, and nearly every other buyer.



Other goods are much more elastic, so price changes for these goods cause substantial changes in their demand or their supply.



Not surprisingly, this concept is of great interest to marketing professionals. It could even be said that their purpose is to create inelastic demand for the products that they market. They achieve that by identifying a meaningful difference in their products from any others that are available.



If the quantity demanded of a product changes greatly in response to changes in its price, it is elastic. That is, the demand point for the product is stretched far from its prior point. If the quantity purchased shows a small change after a change in its price, it is inelastic. The quantity didn’t stretch much from its prior point. 


   Factors That Affect Price Elasticity of Demand  
  Availability of Substitutes  

The more easily a shopper can substitute one product for another, the more the price will fall. For example, in a world in which people like coffee and tea equally if the price of coffee goes up, people will have no problem switching to tea, and the demand for coffee will fall. This is because coffee and tea are considered good substitutes for each other.


  Urgency  

The more discretionary a purchase is, the more its quantity of demand will fall in response to price increases. That is, the product demand has greater elasticity.



Say you are considering buying a new washing machine, but the current one still works; it’s just old and outdated. If the price of a new washing machine goes up, you’re likely to forgo that immediate purchase and wait until prices go down or the current machine breaks down.



The less discretionary a product is, the less its quantity demanded will fall. Inelastic examples include luxury items that people buy for their brand names. Addictive products are quite inelastic, as are required add-on products, such as inkjet printer cartridges.



One thing all these products have in common is that they lack good substitutes. If you really want an Apple iPad, then a Kindle Fire won’t do. Addicts are not dissuaded by higher prices, and only HP ink will work in HP printers (unless you disable HP cartridge protection).


  Duration of Price Change  

The length of time that the price change lasts also matters. Demand response to price fluctuations is different for a one-day sale than for a price change that lasts for a season or a year.



Clarity of time sensitivity is vital to understanding the price elasticity of demand and for comparing it with different products. Consumers may accept a seasonal price fluctuation rather than change their habits.


   Types of Price Elasticity of Demand  

Price elasticity of demand can be categorized according to the number calculated by dividing the percentage change in quantity demanded by the percentage change in price. These categories include the following:










Types of Price Elasticity of Demand




If the percentage change in quantity demanded divided by the percentage change in price equals:
It is known as:
Which means:


Infinity
Perfectly elastic
Changes in price result in demand declining to zero


Greater than 1
Elastic
Changes in price yield a significant change in demand


1
Unitary
Changes in price yield equivalent (percentage) changes in demand


Less than 1
Inelastic
Changes in price yield an insignificant change in demand


0
Perfectly inelastic
Changes in price yield no change in demand






Data: Khan Academy


   Example of Price Elasticity of Demand  

As a rule of thumb, if the quantity of a product demanded or purchased changes more than the price changes, then the product is considered to be elastic (for example, the price goes up by 5%, but the demand falls by 10%).



If the change in quantity purchased is the same as the price change (say, 10% ÷ 10% = 1), then the product is said to have unit (or unitary) price elasticity.



Finally, if the quantity purchased changes less than the price (say, -5% demanded for a +10% change in price), then the product is deemed inelastic.



To calculate the elasticity of demand, consider this example: Suppose that the price of apples falls by 6% from $1.99 a bushel to $1.87 a bushel. In response, grocery shoppers increase their apple purchases by 20%. The elasticity of apples is thus: 0.20 ÷ 0.06 = 3.33. The demand for apples is quite elastic.




What is price elasticity of demand?
Price elasticity of demand is the ratio of the percentage change in quantity demanded of a product to the percentage change in price. Economists employ it to understand how supply and demand change when a product’s price changes.




What makes a product elastic?
If a price change for a product causes a substantial change in either its supply or its demand, it is considered elastic. Generally, it means that there are acceptable substitutes for the product. Examples would be cookies, luxury automobiles, and coffee.




What makes a product inelastic?
If a price change for a product doesn’t lead to much, if any, change in its supply or demand, it is considered inelastic. Generally, it means that the product is considered to be a necessity or a luxury item for addictive constituents. Examples would be gasoline, milk, and iPhones.




What is the importance of price elasticity of demand?
Knowing the price elasticity of demand for goods allows someone selling that good to make informed decisions about pricing strategies. This metric provides sellers with information about consumer pricing sensitivity. It is also key for makers of goods to determine manufacturing plans, as well as for governments to assess how to impose taxes on goods.
What Is Fixing?  

Fixing is the practice of setting the price of a product rather than allowing it to be determined by free-market forces. Fixing a price is illegal if it involves collusion among producers or suppliers.



While fixing almost always refers to price-fixing, it may also apply to other related contexts. For example, the supply of a product can be fixed in order to maintain its price level or push it higher.





Key Takeaways

Fixing is the practice of setting the price of a product rather than allowing it to be determined by free-market forces.Fixing is illegal when it involves collusion among two or more producers of a product or service to maintain artificially high prices or keep the prices they pay their suppliers artificially low.According to the FTC, illegal price-fixing is a written, verbal, or inferred agreement among competitors that "raises, lowers, or stabilizes prices or competitive terms." Some fixing, such as the currency peg, is legal.


   Understanding Fixing  

In a free market, the price of a product or service is determined by the law of supply and demand. If the price is too high, plenty of people will be eager to produce it, but few people will be willing to pay for it. Conversely, if the price is too low, few will find it worthwhile to produce, and many will be eager to buy it. Eventually, economists tell us, the price will settle at a figure that is acceptable to both sides. That's the fair market value.



In its classic form, price-fixing is often a way to force consumers to pay more than they're willing to pay. It usually involves competitors getting together to secretly agree to keep their prices at a certain level, avoiding price competition that would hurt all of them financially.



Another form of price-fixing is an agreement among competitors to refuse to pay more than a set amount for a product or service. For example, if two or more large hospital groups secretly agree to pay no more than a certain price for medical supplies that all of them use, it might qualify as price-fixing.



This is illegal in the U.S. As defined by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), illegal price-fixing is a written, verbal, or inferred agreement among competitors that "raises, lowers, or stabilizes prices or competitive terms." Such cases are pursued as violations of antitrust laws.


   Examples of Price-Fixing  

One classic example of price-fixing was carried out in the 1970s by the Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries (OAPEC). The members of the organization agreed to severely cut back on the supply of oil available to its customers around the world. The result was massive shortages of oil and a quadrupling of its price to consumers.



Another notorious case of price-fixing led to a record U.S. fine. In 1999, the Swiss pharmaceutical giant Roche agreed to pay $500 million, then the largest criminal fine ever, to settle a price-fixing case related to the price of vitamins. A German competitor, BASF, was also fined, while a French company escaped a penalty due to its cooperation with the U.S. Justice Department.


   Special Considerations  

A number of countries, such as some Caribbean and Latin American nations, peg their currencies to the U.S. dollar, both to ease trade and tourism and to preserve their own currency stability. This form of exchange rate fixing is a perfectly legal part of the global economy.
What Is Price Leadership?  

Price leadership occurs when a leading firm in a given industry is able to exert enough influence in the sector that it can effectively determine the price of goods or services for the entire market. This type of firm is sometimes referred to as the price leader.



This phenomenon is common in industries that have oligopolistic market conditions, such as the airline industry. This level of influence often times leaves the rivals of the price leader with little choice but to follow its lead and match the prices if they are to hold onto their market share. In the airline industry, a dominant company typically sets the prices and other airlines feel compelled to adjust their prices to match the prices of the leading firm.





Key Takeaways

Price leadership occurs when a leading firm in a given industry is able to exert enough influence in the sector that it can effectively determine the price of goods or services for the entire market.There are three primary models of price leadership: barometric, collusive, and dominant.Price leadership is commonly used as a strategy among large corporations.There are certain economic conditions that make the emergence of price leadership more likely to occur within an industry, including a small number of companies in the industry, entry to the industry is restricted, products are homogeneous, and demand is inelastic.


   How Price Leadership Works  

There are certain economic conditions that make the emergence of price leadership more likely to occur within an industry: the number of companies involved is small; entry to the industry is restricted; products are homogeneous; demand is inelastic, or less elastic; organizations have a similar long-run average total cost (LRATC). LRATC is an economics metric that is used to determine the minimum (or lowest) average total cost at which a firm can produce any given level of output in the long run (when all inputs are variable).



The proliferation of price leadership tends to occur more often in sectors that produce goods and services that offer little differentiation from one producer to another.



Price leadership also tends to emerge when there is a high level of consumer demand for a specific product; this results in consumers being drawn away from any competing products. Thus, the price of the specific product that is experiencing high levels of consumer demand becomes the market leader.


   Types of Price Leadership  

There are three primary models of price leadership: barometric, collusive, and dominant.


  Barometric  

The barometric price leadership model occurs when a particular firm is more adept than others at identifying shifts in applicable market forces, such as a change in production costs. This allows the firm to respond to market forces more efficiently. For instance, the firm may initiate a price change.



It is possible for a firm with a small market share to act as a barometric price leader if it's a good producer and if the firm is attuned to trends in its market. Other producers may follow its lead, assuming that the price leader is aware of something that they have yet to realize. However, because a barometric leader has very little power to impose its decisions on other firms in the industry, its leadership might be short-lived. 


  Collusive  

The collusive price leadership model may emerge within markets that have oligopolistic conditions. Collusive price leadership occurs as a result of an explicit or implicit agreement among a handful of dominant firms to keep their prices in mutual alignment.



Smaller firms within the market are effectively forced into following the price change initiated by the dominant firms. This practice is most common in industries where the cost of entry is high, and the costs of production are known.



These agreements between firms–either explicit or implicit–may be considered illegal if the effort is designed to defraud the public. There is a fine line between price leadership and illegal acts of collusion. Price leadership is more likely to be considered collusive–and potentially illegal–if the changes in the price of a good are not related to changes in the operating costs of the firm.


  Dominant  

The dominant price leadership model occurs when one firm controls the vast majority of the market share in its industry. Within the industry, there are other, smaller firms that provide the same products or services as the leading firm. However, in this model, these smaller firms cannot influence prices.



A dominant price leadership model is sometimes referred to as a partial monopoly. In this type of model, the price leader might engage in predatory pricing, which refers to the practice of lowering prices to levels that make it impossible for smaller, competing firms to remain in business. In most countries, business decisions that enact predatory pricing and are aimed at hurting smaller companies are illegal.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Price Leadership  

There are many potential advantages for firms that emerge as price leaders within an industry. In some instances, other firms within an industry may also benefit from the emergence of a price leader. For example, if companies in a particular market follow a price leader by setting higher prices, then all producers in that market stand to profit, as long as demand remains steady.



Price leadership also has the potential to eliminate (or reduce) price wars. If a market is completely comprised of companies of a similar size, in the absence of price leadership, price wars could ensue as each competitor tries to increase its share of the market.



One side effect of price leadership may be better-quality products as a result of an increase in profits. Increased profits often mean more revenue for companies to invest in research and development (R&D), and thus, an increase in their ability to design new products and deliver more value to customers.



The dynamics of price leadership may also create a system of interdependence rather than rivalry. When firms in the same market choose a parallel pricing structure–instead of undercutting each other–it fosters a positive environment conducive to growth for all companies.



There are also many potential disadvantages to the emergence of price leadership within an industry. In general, price leadership is only advantageous to businesses (in terms of their profits and performance). Price leadership where prices are increased does not convey any material advantages to consumers---however in the case where the price leader lowers prices consumers may benefit with less expensive goods and services.



In every price leadership model–barometric, collusive, dominant–it is the sellers that benefit from increased revenues, not the consumers. Customers will need to pay more for items that they were used to getting for less (before the sellers conspired to raise prices).



﻿Consumers, however, may benefit in the short run if a price leader lowers prices. This assumes the price leader is not using predatory pricing to drive firms not able to respond out of business and later on exert monopoly pressure and raise prices.



Price leadership can also be unfair to smaller firms because small firms who attempt to match a leader's prices may not have the same economies of scale as the leaders. This can make it hard for them to sustain consistent price declines (and, in the long-term, to remain in business).



Price leadership can also result in malpractices on the part of competing firms that make the decision not to follow the leader's prices. Instead, they may engage in aggressive promotion strategies, such as rebates, money-back guarantees, free delivery services, and installment payment plans.



Finally, in a price leadership model, there is an inevitable discrepancy between the benefits conferred to the price leader versus the benefit conferred to other firms operating in the same industry. For example, if it costs the price leader less capital to produce the same product than it costs another firm, then the leader will set lower prices. This will result in a loss for any firm that has higher costs than the price leader.
What Is Price Level?  

Price level is the average of current prices across the entire spectrum of goods and services produced in an economy. In more general terms, price level refers to the price or cost of a good, service, or security in the economy.



Price levels may be expressed in small ranges, such as ticks with securities prices, or presented as a discrete value such as a dollar figure.



In economics, price levels are a key indicator and are closely watched by economists. They play an important role in the purchasing power of consumers as well as the sale of goods and services. It also plays an important part in the supply-demand chain.





Key Takeaways

The price level is the average of the current price of goods and services produced in the economy.Price levels are expressed in small ranges or as discrete values such as dollar figures.Price levels are leading indicators in the economy; rising prices indicate higher demand leading to inflation while declining prices indicate lower demand or deflation.In the investment world, the price level is referred to as support and resistance, which help define entry and exit points.


   Understanding Price Level  

There are two meanings of the term price level in the world of business.



The first is what most people are accustomed to hearing about, namely, the price of goods and services or the amount of money a consumer or other entity is required to give up to purchase a good, service, or security in the economy. Prices rise as demand increases and drop when demand decreases.



The movement in prices is used as a reference for inflation and deflation, or the rise and fall of prices in the economy. If the prices of goods and services rise too quickly—when an economy experiences inflation—a central bank can step in and tighten its monetary policy and raise interest rates. This, in turn, decreases the amount of money in the system, thereby decreasing aggregate demand. If prices drop too quickly, the central bank can do the reverse; loosen its monetary policy, thereby increasing the economy's money supply and aggregate demand.



The other meaning of price level refers to the price of assets traded on the market such as a stock or a bond, which is often referred to as support and resistance. As in the case of the definition of price in the economy, demand for a security increases when its price drops. This forms the support line. When the price increases, a sell-off occurs, cutting off demand. This is where the resistance zone lies.


   Price Level in the Economy  

In economics, price level refers to the buying power of money or inflation. In other words, economists describe the state of the economy by looking at how much people can buy with the same dollar of currency. The most common price level index is the consumer price index (CPI).



The price level is analyzed through a basket of goods approach, in which a collection of consumer-based goods and services is examined in aggregate. Changes in the aggregate price over time push the index measuring the basket of goods higher.



Weighted averages are typically used rather than geometric means. Price levels provide a snapshot of prices at a given time, making it possible to review changes in the broad price level over time. As prices rise (inflation) or fall (deflation), consumer demand for goods is also affected, which leads to changes in broad production measures such as gross domestic product (GDP).



Price levels are one of the most watched economic indicators in the world. Economists widely believe that prices should stay relatively stable year to year so that they don't cause undue inflation. If price levels rise too quickly, central banks or governments look for ways to decrease the money supply or the aggregate demand for goods and services.






Although prices change gradually over time during inflationary periods, they can change more than once a day when an economy experiences hyperinflation.


   Price Level in the Investment World  

Traders and investors make money by buying and selling securities. They buy and sell when the price reaches a certain level. These price levels are referred to as support and resistance. Traders use these areas of support and resistance to define entry and exit points.



Support is a price level where a downtrend is expected to pause due to a concentration of demand. As the price of a security drops, demand for the shares increases, forming the support line. Meanwhile, resistance zones arise due to a sell-off when prices increase.



Once an area or zone of support or resistance is identified, it provides valuable potential trade entry or exit points. This is so because as a price reaches a point of support or resistance, it will do one of two things: bounce back away from the support or resistance level or violate the price level and continue in its direction until it hits the next support or resistance level.
What is the Price Rate Of Change (ROC) Indicator  

The Price Rate of Change (ROC) is a momentum-based technical indicator that measures the percentage change in price between the current price and the price a certain number of periods ago. The ROC indicator is plotted against zero, with the indicator moving upwards into positive territory if price changes are to the upside, and moving into negative territory if price changes are to the downside.



The indicator can be used to spot divergences, overbought and oversold conditions, and centerline crossovers.





Key Takeaways

The Price Rate of Change (ROC) oscillator is an unbounded momentum indicator used in technical analysis set against a zero-level midpoint.A rising ROC above zero typically confirms an uptrend while a falling ROC below zero indicates a downtrend.When the price is consolidating, the ROC will hover near zero. In this case, it is important traders watch the overall price trend since the ROC will provide little insight except for confirming the consolidation.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021


   The Formula for the Price Rate of Change Indicator Is:  
















ROC


=


(




Closing Price


p




Closing Price



p


−


n





)


×


100
















where:

















Closing Price


p



=


Closing price of most recent period

















Closing Price



p


−


n




=



Closing price 


n


 periods before

















most recent period







\begin{aligned}&\text{ROC}=\Big(\frac{\text{Closing Price}_p }{\text{Closing Price}_{p-n}}\Big)\times100\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{Closing Price}_p=\text{Closing price of most recent period}\\&\text{Closing Price}_{p - n}=\text{Closing price \textit{n} periods before}\\&\text{most recent period}\end{aligned}


​ROC=(Closing Pricep−n​Closing Pricep​​)×100where:Closing Pricep​=Closing price of most recent periodClosing Pricep−n​=Closing price n periods beforemost recent period​


   How to Calculate the Price Rate of Change Indicator  

The main step in calculating the ROC, is picking the "n" value. Short-term traders may choose a small n value, such as nine. Longer-term investors may choose a value such as 200. The n value is how many periods ago the current price is being compared to. Smaller values will see the ROC react more quickly to price changes, but that can also mean more false signals. A larger value means the ROC will react slower, but the signals could be more meaningful when they occur.



Select an n value. It can be anything such as 12, 25, or 200. Short-term trader traders typically use a smaller number while longer-term investors use a larger number.
Find the most recent period's closing price.
Find the period's close price from n periods ago.
Plug the prices from steps two and three into the ROC formula.
As each period ends, calculate the new ROC value.






   What Does the Price Rate of Change Indicator Tell You?  

The Price Rate of Change (ROC) is classed as a momentum or velocity indicator because it measures the strength of price momentum by the rate of change. For example, if a stock's price at the close of trading today is $10, and the closing price five trading days prior was $7, then the five-day ROC is 42.85, calculated as



﻿















(


(


1


0


−


7


)


÷


7


)


×


1


0


0


=


4


2


.


8


5








\begin{aligned} &( ( 10 - 7 ) \div 7 ) \times 100 = 42.85 \\ \end{aligned}


​((10−7)÷7)×100=42.85​﻿



Like most momentum oscillators, the ROC appears on a chart in a separate window below the price chart. The ROC is plotted against a zero line that differentiates positive and negative values. Positive values indicate upward buying pressure or momentum, while negative values below zero indicate selling pressure or downward momentum. Increasing values in either direction, positive or negative, indicate increasing momentum, and moves back toward zero indicate waning momentum.



Zero-line crossovers can be used to signal trend changes. Depending on the n value used these signal may come early in a trend change (small n value) or very late in a trend change (larger n value). The ROC is prone to whipsaws, especially around the zero line. Therefore, this signal is generally not used for trading purposes, but rather to simply alert traders that a trend change may be underway.



Overbought and oversold levels are also used. These levels are not fixed, but will vary by the asset being traded. Traders look to see what ROC values resulted in price reversals in the past. Often traders will find both positive and negative values where the price reversed with some regularity. When the ROC reaches these extreme readings again, traders will be on high alert and watch for the price to start reversing to confirm the ROC signal. With the ROC signal in place, and the price reversing to confirm the ROC signal, a trade may be considered.



ROC is also commonly used as a divergence indicator that signals a possible upcoming trend change. Divergence occurs when the price of a stock or another asset moves in one direction while its ROC moves in the opposite direction. For example, if a stock's price is rising over a period of time while the ROC is progressively moving lower, then the ROC is indicating bearish divergence from price, which signals a possible trend change to the downside. The same concept applies if the price is moving down and ROC is moving higher. This could signal a price move to the upside. Divergence is a notoriously poor timing signal since a divergence can last a long time and won't always result in a price reversal.


   The Difference Between the Price Rate of Change and the Momentum Indicator  

The two indicators are very similar and will yield similar results if using the same n value in each indicator. The primary difference is that the ROC divides the difference between the current price and price n periods ago by the price n periods ago. This makes it a percentage. Most calculations for the momentum indicator don't do this. Instead, the difference in price is simply multiplied by 100, or the current price is divided by the price n periods ago and then multiplied by 100. Both these indicators end up telling similar stories, although some traders may marginally prefer one over the other as they can provide slightly different readings.
The formula for the Momentum Indicator is:















Momentum Indicator


=



(




Closing Price


p




Closing Price



p


−


n





)



×


100
















where:

















Closing Price


p



=


Closing price of most recent period

















Closing Price



p


−


n




=


Closing price 


n


 periods before
















most recent period







\begin{aligned}&\text{Momentum Indicator}=\left(\frac{\text{Closing Price}_p}{\text{Closing Price}_{p-n}}\right)\times100\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{Closing Price}_p=\text{Closing price of most recent period}\\&\text{Closing Price}_{p-n}=\text{Closing price }n\text{ periods before}\\&\text{most recent period}\end{aligned}


​Momentum Indicator=(Closing Pricep−n​Closing Pricep​​)×100where:Closing Pricep​=Closing price of most recent periodClosing Pricep−n​=Closing price n periods beforemost recent period​


   Limitation of Using the Price Rate of Change Indicator  

One potential problem with using the ROC indicator is that its calculation gives equal weight to the most recent price and the price from n periods ago, despite the fact that some technical analysts consider more recent price action to be of more importance in determining likely future price movement.



The indicator is also prone to whipsaws, especially around the zero line. This is because when the price consolidates the price changes shrink, moving the indicator toward zero. Such times can result in multiple false signals for trend trades, but does help confirm the price consolidation.



While the indicator can be used for divergence signals, the signals often occur far too early. When the ROC starts to diverge, the price can still run in the trending direction for some time. Therefore, divergence should not be acted on as a trade signal, but could be used to help confirm a trade if other reversal signals are present from other indicators and analysis methods.
What Is Price Sensitivity?  

Price sensitivity is the degree to which the price of a product affects consumers' purchasing behaviors. Generally speaking, it's how demand changes with the change in the cost of products.



In economics, price sensitivity is commonly measured using the price elasticity of demand, or the measure of the change in demand based on its price change. For example, some consumers are not willing to pay a few extra cents per gallon for gasoline, especially if a lower-priced station is nearby.



When companies and product manufacturers study and analyze price sensitivity, they can make sound decisions about products and services.





Key Takeaways

Price sensitivity is the degree to which demand changes when the cost of a product or service changes.Price sensitivity is commonly measured using the price elasticity of demand, which states that some consumers won't pay more if a lower-priced option is available.The importance of price sensitivity varies relative to other purchasing criteria; quality may rank higher than price, making consumers less susceptible to price sensitivity.


   Understanding Price Sensitivity  

Price sensitivity can basically be defined as the extent to which demand changes when the price of a product or service changes.



The price sensitivity of a product varies with the relative level of importance consumers place on price compared to other purchasing criteria. Some people may value quality over price, making them less susceptible to price sensitivity. For example, customers seeking top-quality goods are typically less price-sensitive than bargain hunters; so, they're willing to pay more for a high-quality product.



By contrast, people who are more sensitive to price may be willing to sacrifice quality. These individuals will not spend more for something like a brand name, even if it has a higher quality than a generic store brand product.



Price sensitivity varies from person to person, or from one consumer to the next. Some people are able and willing to pay more for goods and services than others. Companies and governments are also able to pay more compared to individuals. But even one individual can have different price sensitivities for different purchases. For instance, someone may price-shop when they're buying paper towel, but be more focused on quality than price when they're looking for a dining room table.






At some point, demand will fall to or close to zero if it reaches a certain price.


  Price sensitivity and elasticity of demand  

The law of demand states that if all other market factors remain constant, a relative price increase leads to a drop in the quantity demanded. Inelastic demand means consumers are more willing to buy a product even after price increases. High elasticity means even small price increases may significantly lower demand.



In a perfect world, businesses would set prices at the exact point where supply and demand produce as much revenue as possible. This is referred to as the equilibrium price. Although this is difficult, computer software models and real-time analysis of sales volume at given price points can help determine equilibrium prices. Even if a small price rise diminishes sales volume, the relative gains in revenue may overcome a proportionally smaller decline in consumer purchases.


   Influences on Price Sensitivity  

Price sensitivity places a premium on understanding the competition, the buying process, and the uniqueness of products or services in the marketplace. For example, consumers have lower price sensitivity if a product or service is unique or has few substitutes.



Consumers are less sensitive to price when the total cost is low compared to their total income. Likewise, the total expenditure compared to the total cost of the end product affects price sensitivity. For example, if registration costs for a convention are low compared to the total cost of travel, hotel, and food expenses, attendees may be less sensitive to the registration fee.



When the expense is shared, consumers have less price sensitivity. People attending the same conference may share one hotel room, making them less sensitive to the hotel room rate.






Price sensitivity varies from person to person and good or service, with some items deemed worthy of costing a premium and others not.



Consumers also have less price sensitivity when a product or service is used along with something they already own. For instance, once members pay to join an association, they are typically less sensitive to paying for other association services.



Consumers also have less price sensitivity when the product or service is viewed as prestigious, exclusive, or possessing high quality. For example, an association may have a premium feature of its membership delivered through its programs and services, making members less price-sensitive to changes in dues.


   Business Pricing Strategies  

There are a number of different factors that businesses use to come up with pricing strategies. These factors will separate consumers based on their sensitivity to prices.



Businesses may use marketing and advertising techniques to get consumers to shift their focus from price to other factors, such as product offerings, benefits, and other values. This is common in the travel, tourism, and hospitality industries. Airlines will generally charge more for certain flights—especially on weekends—or for different classes of flights. Many business travelers are less sensitive to price changes.




What Is a High Price Sensitivity?
High price sensitivity means consumers are especially sensitive to price changes and are likely to spurn a good or service if it suddenly costs more than similar alternatives.




What Products Are Price Sensitive?
Generally speaking, the products that are most price sensitive are those that have lots of competition and don’t stand out much in terms of quality or prestige. Price sensitivity can also become a bigger factor among higher-priced products since these purchases command a significant portion of the buyer’s budget.  A 2% jump in a favorite cereal brand may even potentially go unnoticed. However, add that same percentage to a big ticket item and it’s more likely the consumer will shop around for cheaper alternatives.




What Is Price Insensitive?
Price insensitive is the opposite of price sensitive. It means demand remains the same when the price goes up or down.




How Do You Calculate Price Sensitivity?
One way to measure price sensitivity is to divide the percentage change in quantity demanded by the percentage change in price. So, for example, if a 30% jump in the cost of a soda drink leads to a 10% drop in purchases, we can conclude that the item has a price sensitivity of 0.33%.


   The Bottom Line  

Price sensitivity affects how much money companies and employers generate from their activities and consumer spending. That makes it a crucial component of the economy and something very much worth keeping tabs on.
What Is Price Skimming?  

Price skimming is a product pricing strategy by which a firm charges the highest initial price that customers will pay and then lowers it over time. As the demand of the first customers is satisfied and competition enters the market, the firm lowers the price to attract another, more price-sensitive segment of the population. The skimming strategy gets its name from "skimming" successive layers of cream, or customer segments, as prices are lowered over time.





Key Takeaways

Price skimming is a product pricing strategy by which a firm charges the highest initial price that customers will pay and then lowers it over time.As the demand of the first customers is satisfied and competition enters the market, the firm lowers the price to attract another, more price-sensitive segment of the population.This approach contrasts with the penetration pricing model, which focuses on releasing a lower-priced product to grab as much market share as possible.












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   How Price Skimming Works  

Price skimming is often used when a new type of product enters the market. The goal is to gather as much revenue as possible while consumer demand is high and competition has not entered the market.



Once those goals are met, the original product creator can lower prices to attract more cost-conscious buyers while remaining competitive toward any lower-cost copycat items entering the market. This stage generally occurs when sales volume begins to decrease at the highest price the seller is able to charge, forcing them to lower the price to meet market demand.






Skimming can encourage the entry of competitors since other firms will notice the artificially high margins available in the product, they will quickly enter.



This approach contrasts with the penetration pricing model, which focuses on releasing a lower-priced product to grab as much market share as possible. Generally, this technique is better-suited for lower-cost items, such as basic household supplies, where price may be a driving factor in most customers' production selections.



Firms often use skimming to recover the cost of development. Skimming is a useful strategy in the following contexts:



There are enough prospective customers willing to buy the product at a high price.
The high price does not attract competitors.
Lowering the price would have only a minor effect on increasing sales volume and reducing unit costs.
The high price is interpreted as a sign of high quality.



When a new product enters the market, such as a new form of home technology, the price can affect buyer perception. Often, items priced towards the higher end suggest quality and exclusivity. This may help attract early adopters who are willing to spend more for a product and can also provide useful word-of-mouth marketing campaigns.


   Price Skimming Limits  

Generally, the price skimming model is best used for a short period of time, allowing the early adopter market to become saturated, but not alienating price-conscious buyers over the long term. Additionally, buyers may turn to cheaper competitors if a price reduction comes about too late, leading to lost sales and most likely lost revenue.



Price skimming may also not be as effective for any competitor follow-up products. Since the initial market of early adopters has been tapped, other buyers may not purchase a competing product at a higher price without significant product improvements over the original.
What Is Price Stickiness?  

Price stickiness, or sticky prices, is the resistance of market price(s) to change quickly, despite shifts in the broad economy suggesting a different price is optimal. "Sticky" is a general economics term that can apply to any financial variable that is resistant to change. When applied to prices, it means that the sellers (or buyers) of certain goods are reluctant to change the price, despite changes in input cost or demand patterns.



Price stickiness would occur, for instance, if the price of a once-in-demand smartphone remains high at say $800 even when demand drops significantly. Price stickiness can also be referred to as "nominal rigidity" and is related to wage stickiness.





Key Takeaways

Price stickiness, or sticky prices, is the failure of market price(s) to change quickly, despite shifts in the broad economy suggesting a different price is optimal.When prices cannot adjust immediately to changes in economic conditions or in the aggregate price level, there is an inefficiency or disequilibrium in the market.Often the price stickiness operates in just one direction—for instance, prices will rise far more easily than they will fall.The concept of price stickiness can also apply to wages. When sales fall, the company doesn’t resort to cutting wages.


   Understanding Price Stickiness  

The laws of supply and demand hold that quantity demanded for a good falls as the price rises, and the quantity supplied rises when prices rise, and vice versa. Most goods and services are expected to respond to the laws of demand and supply. However, this adjustment process takes time and, with certain goods and services, does not always happen very quickly due to price stickiness.



Price stickiness, or sticky prices, refers to the tendency of prices to remain constant or to adjust slowly, despite changes in the cost of producing and selling the goods or services. This stickiness can have a number of important implications for the operations and efficiency of the economy.



For example, from a microeconomic perspective, price stickiness can induce the same welfare-reducing effects and deadweight losses as government-imposed price controls. In a macroeconomic context, it may mean that changes in the money supply have an impact on the real economy, inducing changes in investment, employment, output, and consumption, rather than just nominal price levels.



When prices cannot adjust immediately to changes in economic conditions or in the supply of money, there is an inefficiency in the market—that is, a market disequilibrium exists as long as prices fail to adjust. The presence of price stickiness is an important part of New Keynesian macroeconomic theory since it can explain why markets might not reach equilibrium in the short run or even, possibly, in the long run.


  Price Stickiness Triggers  

The fact that price stickiness exists can be attributed to several different forces, such as the costs to update pricing, including changes to marketing materials that must be made when prices do change. These are known as menu costs.



Part of price stickiness is also attributed to imperfect information in the markets or irrational decision-making by company executives. Some firms will try to keep prices constant as a business strategy, even though it is not sustainable based on costs of material, labor, etc.






Price stickiness appears in situations where a long-term contract is involved. A company that has a two-year contract to supply office equipment to another business is stuck to the agreed price for the duration of the contract, even if relevant conditions change, such as the government raising taxes or production costs changing.


   Special Considerations  
  Stickiness in Just One Direction  

Price stickiness can occur in just one direction if prices move up or down with little resistance, but not easily in the opposite direction. A price is said to be sticky-up if it can move down rather easily but will only move up with pronounced effort. When the market-clearing price implied by new circumstances rises, the observed market price remains artificially lower than the new market-clearing level, resulting in excess demand or scarcity.



Sticky-down refers to the tendency of a price to move up easily but prove quite resistant to moving down. Therefore, when the implied market-clearing price drops, the observed market price remains artificially higher than the new market-clearing level, resulting in excess supply or a surplus.


  Wage Stickiness  

The concept of price stickiness can also apply to wages. When sales fall in a company, the company doesn’t resort to cutting wages. As a person becomes accustomed to earning a certain wage, they are not normally willing to take a pay cut, and so wages tend to be sticky.



In his book The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money, John Maynard Keynes argued that nominal wages display downward stickiness, in the sense that workers are reluctant to accept cuts in nominal wages. This can lead to involuntary unemployment as it takes time for wages to adjust to equilibrium.﻿﻿﻿﻿



From a business perspective, it is often preferable to layoff less productive employees rather than cut pay across the board, which could demotivate all workers, including those that are most productive. Union and civil service wage contracts may also strongly contribute to downward stickiness of wages in the same way as other types of long-term contracts.
What Is a Price-Taker?  

A price-taker is an individual or company that must accept prevailing prices in a market, lacking the market share to influence market price on its own. All economic participants are considered to be price-takers in a market of perfect competition or one in which all companies sell an identical product, there are no barriers to entry or exit, every company has a relatively small market share, and all buyers have full information of the market. This holds true for producers and consumers of goods and services and for buyers and sellers in debt and equity markets.



In the stock market, individual investors are considered to be price-takers, while market-makers are those who set the bid and offer in a security. Being a market maker, however, does not mean that they can set any price they want. Market makers are in competition with one another and are constrained by the economic laws of the markets like supply and demand.






We're all price-takers. When we go the grocery store, we can decide if we want to buy some item with some price tag, but we do not haggle or enter a lower bid for your milk, eggs, or meat.


   Understanding Price-Takers  

In most competitive markets, firms are price-takers. If firms charge higher than prevailing market prices for their products, consumers will simply purchase from a different lower-cost seller to the extent that these firms all sell identical (substitutable) goods or services.



Grain markets such as for wheat are a prime example of a good that is almost identical in quality between its many sellers, so the price of grain is determined by competitive activity in domestic and global markets and commodities exchanges.



In the case of wheat, low-cost producers will have a competitive advantage in that they will be able to drive out high-cost producers and take their market share by offering progressively lower prices. Technological innovation that lowers the cost of production is part of the process of competition whereby capitalist firms have no choice but to be price takers.



The market for oil is slightly different. While oil is competitively produced as a standardized commodity on a global market, it has steep barriers to entry as a seller, due to the high capital costs and expertise needed to drill or refine oil, as well as the high bidding price of oil fields.



As a result, there are relatively few oil-producing firms compared to wheat farmers, and so most consumers of gasoline and other petroleum-products are the price-takers—they have few producers to choose from outside a handful of global companies. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) also has great power to move prices up and down through controls on output. This underscores how a consumer is price-taking to the extent that he can't or doesn't want to produce the good on his own.



Nevertheless, due to intense competition and technological innovation among these firms, consumers still get oil at low prices.



The nature of an industry or market greatly dictates whether firms and individuals are price-takers. For example, most consumers in retail markets are, indeed, price-takers. For instance, you walk into a clothing store or supermarket and decide what to buy or not, but you are beholden to the price tag attached to a product. You cannot go to your supermarket and competitively bid for a dozen eggs or a box of cereal, you must take the price being offered, or leave it. Online auction sites such as eBay, for example, allow consumers to bid and so the sellers become the price-takers.





Key Takeaways

A price-taker is an individual or company that must accept prevailing prices in a market, lacking the market share to influence market price on its own. Due to market competition, most producers are also price-takers. Only under conditions of monopoly or monopsony do we find price-making.Market makers set prices in financial products like stocks. But market markers are also in competition with one another to trade.


   Special Considerations: Different Types of Markets  

A perfectly competitive market is rare. In most markets, each firm or individual has a varying ability to influence prices, either through sales or purchases. The polar opposites of perfectly competitive markets are monopolies and monopsonies.



A monopoly is a market in which a single seller or a group of sellers controls an overwhelming share of supply, giving the seller or sellers the power to drive up prices on their own. OPEC has a monopoly to a degree. A monopsony is a market in which a single buyer or a group of buyers has a significant-enough share of demand to drive prices down.
What Is a Price Target?  

A price target is an analyst's projection of a security's future price. Price targets can pertain to all types of securities, from complex investment products to stocks and bonds. When setting a stock's price target, an analyst is trying to determine what the stock is worth and where the price will be in 12 or 18 months. Ultimately, price targets depend on the valuation of the company that's issuing the stock.



Analysts generally publish their price targets in research reports on specific companies, along with their buy, sell, and hold recommendations for the company's stock. Stock price targets are often quoted in the financial news media.





Key Takeaways

A price target is an analyst's projection of a security's future price, one at which an analyst believes a stock is fairly valued.Analysts consider numerous fundamental and technical factors to arrive at a price target.Analysts generally publish their price targets along with their buy, sell, and hold recommendations for a stock.Price targets for the same security can be different because of the various valuation methods used by analysts, traders, and institutions. 


   Understanding Price Targets  

A price target is a price at which an analyst believes a stock to be fairly valued relative to its projected and historical earnings. When an analyst raises their price target for a stock, they generally expect the stock price to rise.



Conversely, lowering their price target may mean that the analyst expects the stock price to fall. Price targets are an organic factor in financial analysis; they can change over time as new information becomes available.






   Factors That Help to Determine a Price Target  

The price target is based on assumptions about a security's future supply and demand, technical levels, and fundamentals. Different analysts and financial institutions use various valuation methods and take into account different economic conditions when deciding on a price target.



For fundamental analysts, a common way to discern the price target for a stock is to create a multiple of the price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio—by multiplying the market price by the company’s trailing 12-month earnings.



In some cases, particularly with volatile stocks, analysts will look for additional guidance to form their price targets, which could include reviewing a company’s balance sheet and other financial statements and comparing them to historical results, current economics, and the competitive environment, studying the health of a company's management, and analyzing other ratios.



Technical analysts use indicators, price action, statistics, trends, and price momentum to gauge the future price of a security. One way that they arrive at a price target is to find areas of defined support and resistance. An analyst will do this by charting a price that moves between at least two similar highs and lows without breaking above or below those points at any point in between.


   Special Considerations About Price Targets  
  For Traders  

Traders will generally look to exit their position on a stock when the originally expected value of the trade has been recognized. Although price targets can help traders understand when to buy or sell a stock, traders can and should determine their own price targets for entering and exiting positions.


  If You're a Sophisticated Investor  

For individual investors, the assumptions that underlie analysts’ price targets are not always obvious. Investors should use analysts' price targets and recommendations as just one part of their investment due diligence, which could include reviewing a company's financials and regulatory filings, among other resources.






Despite the most careful analysis, we cannot know for certain the price at which a stock will trade in the future. Nevertheless, when a prominent analyst changes their price target, it can have a significant impact on the price of a security.


  Price Targets Are Powerful Guesstimates  

Accurately forecasting a security's price movement is based on projection, probability, numerous tools, and lots of experience. However, even for the most seasoned professional, a price target is still a calculated guess. Some portfolio managers believe that price targets, along with research reports, function mainly as marketing tools for brokerages and investment banks to generate interest in a security that they're underwriting.




How Are Price Targets Calculated?
Price targets try to predict what a given security will be worth at some point in the future. Analysts attempt to satisfy this basic question by projecting a security's future price using a blend of fundamental data points and educated assumptions about the security's future valuation.




Are Price Targets Accurate?
Despite the best efforts of analysts, a price target is a guess with the variance in analyst projections linked to their estimates of future performance. Studies have found that, historically, the overall accuracy rate is around 30% for price targets with 12-18 month horizons. However, price targets do have the ability to sway investor sentiment, especially if they come from credible analysts.




Where Are Price Targets Found?
Analysts generally publish their price targets in research reports on specific companies, along with their buy, sell, and hold recommendations for the company's stock. Stock price targets are often quoted in the financial news media.
What Is the Price-to-Book (P/B) Ratio?  

Many investors use the price-to-book ratio (P/B ratio) to compare a firm's market capitalization to its book value and locate undervalued companies. This ratio is calculated by dividing the company's current stock price per share by its book value per share (BVPS).





Key Takeaways

The price-to-book (P/B) ratio measures the market's valuation of a company relative to its book value.The market value of equity is typically higher than the book value of a company's stock.The price-to-book ratio is used by value investors to identify potential investments.P/B ratios under 1.0 are typically considered solid investments by value investors.A good P/B ratio is relative to a business and its industry.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Formula and Calculation of the Price-to-Book (P/B) Ratio  

The formula for the price-to-book ratio is:








P


/


B


 


R


a


t


i


o


=





M


a


r


k


e


t


 


P


r


i


c


e


 


p


e


r


 


S


h


a


r


e




B


o


o


k


 


V


a


l


u


e


 


p


e


r


 


S


h


a


r


e






P/B ~Ratio = \dfrac{Market~Price~per~Share}{Book~Value~per~Share}


P/B Ratio=Book Value per ShareMarket Price per Share​



Where:



Market Price per Share = Current market price of the shareBook Value per Share = (Total assets - intangible assets - total liabilities) ÷ number of outstanding shares



Market value per share is obtained by looking at the information available on most stock tracking websites. You need to find the company's balance sheet to obtain total assets, total liabilities, and outstanding shares. Most investment websites display this financial report under a "financials" tab—some show it on a stock's summary tab.


   What the Price-to-Book Ratio Can Tell You  

The P/B ratio reflects the value that market participants attach to a company's equity relative to the book value of its equity. Many investors use the P/B ratio to find undervalued stocks. By purchasing an undervalued stock, they hope to be rewarded when the market realizes the stock is undervalued and returns its price to where it should be—according to the investor's analysis.



Some investors believe that the P/B ratio is a forward-looking metric that reflects a company's future cash flows; however, when you look at the information used to calculate the P/B ratio, the factors used are the price investors are willing to pay currently, the number of shares issued by a company, and values from a balance sheet that reflect data from the past. Thus, the ratio isn't forward-looking and doesn't predict or indicate future cash flows.



The P/B ratio also provides a valuable reality check for investors seeking growth at a reasonable price. It is often evaluated with return on equity (ROE), a reliable growth indicator. Large discrepancies between the P/B ratio and ROE often raise a red flag for investors. 






Overvalued growth stocks frequently show a combination of low ROE and high P/B ratios. Properly valued stocks have ROE and P/B ratios that grow somewhat similarly because stocks that generate higher returns tend to attract investors and increase demand, thus increasing the stock's market price.



A high P/B ratio suggests a stock could be overvalued, while a lower P/B ratio could mean the stock is undervalued.



As with most ratios, the P/B ratio varies by industry. A company should be compared with similarly structured companies in similar industries; otherwise, the comparison results could be misleading.


  P/B Ratios and Public Companies  

It is difficult to pinpoint a specific numeric value of a "good" price-to-book (P/B) ratio when determining if a stock is undervalued and therefore, a good investment. It's helpful to identify some general parameters or a range for P/B value, then consider various other factors and valuation measures that more accurately interpret the P/B value and forecast a company's potential for growth.



The P/B ratio has been favored by value investors for decades and is widely used by market analysts. Traditionally, any value under 1.0 is considered desirable for value investors, indicating an undervalued stock may have been identified. However, some value investors may often consider stocks with a less stringent P/B value of less than 3.0 as their benchmark.


  Equity Market Value vs. Book Value  

Due to accounting procedures, the market value of equity is typically higher than a security's book value, resulting in a P/B ratio above 1.0. During times of low earnings, a company's P/B ratio can dive below a value of 1.0.



For example, in most cases, companies must expense research and development costs, reducing book value because this includes the expenses on the balance sheet. However, these R&D outlays can create unique production processes for a company or result in new patents that can bring royalty revenues. While accounting principles favor a conservative approach in capitalizing costs, market participants may raise the stock price because of such R&D efforts, resulting in wide differences between the market and book values of equity.


   Example of How to Use the P/B Ratio  

Assume that a company has $100 million in assets on the balance sheet, no intangibles, and $75 million in liabilities. Therefore, the book value of that company would be calculated as $25 million ($100M - $75M).



If there are 10 million shares outstanding, each share would represent $2.50 of book value. Therefore, if the share price is $5, the P/B ratio would be 2.0 (5 / 2.50).



This illustrates that the market price is valued at twice its book value, which may or may not indicate overvaluation. This would depend on how P/B ratios compare against other similarly sized companies in the same sector.






Price-to-book ratio may not be as useful when valuating the stock of a company with fewer tangible assets on their balance sheets, such as services firms and software development companies.


   Price-to-Book Ratio vs. Price-to-Tangible-Book Ratio  

Closely related to the P/B ratio is the price-to-tangible-book value ratio (PTVB). The latter is a valuation ratio expressing the price of a security compared to its hard (or tangible) book value as reported in the company's balance sheet. The tangible book value number is equal to the company's total book value less than the value of any intangible assets.



Intangible assets can be items such as patents, intellectual property, and goodwill. This may be a more useful valuation measure when valuing something like a patent in different ways or if it is difficult to put a value on such an intangible asset in the first place.


   Limitations of Using the P/B Ratio  

Investors find the P/B ratio useful because the book value of equity provides a relatively stable and intuitive metric they can easily compare to the market price. The P/B ratio can also be used for firms with positive book values and negative earnings since negative earnings render price-to-earnings ratios useless. There are fewer companies with negative book values than companies with negative earnings.



However, when accounting standards applied by firms vary, P/B ratios may not be comparable, especially for companies from different countries. Additionally, P/B ratios can be less useful for service and information technology companies with little tangible assets on their balance sheets. Finally, the book value can become negative because of a long series of negative earnings, making the P/B ratio useless for relative valuation.



Other potential problems in using the P/B ratio stem from the fact that any number of scenarios, such as recent acquisitions, recent write-offs, or share buybacks can distort the book value figure in the equation. When searching for undervalued stocks, investors should consider multiple valuation measures to complement the P/B ratio.




What Does the Price-to-Book Ratio Compare?
The price-to-book ratio is one of the most widely-used financial ratios. It compares a share's market price to its book value, essentially showing the value given by the market for each dollar of the company’s net worth. High-growth companies often show price-to-book ratios well above 1.0, whereas companies facing financial distress occasionally show ratios below 1.0.




Why Is the Price-to-Book Ratio Important?
The price-to-book ratio is important because it can help investors understand whether a company's market price seems reasonable compared to its balance sheet. For example, if a company shows a high price-to-book ratio, investors might check to see whether that valuation is justified given other measures, such as its historical return on assets or growth in earnings per share (EPS).




What Is a Good Price-to-Book Ratio?
What counts as a “good” price-to-book ratio will depend on the industry in question and the overall state of valuations in the market. An investor assessing the price-to-book ratio of a stock might choose to accept a higher average price-to-book ratio, as compared to an investor looking at a the stock of a company in an industry where lower price-to-book ratios are the norm.


   The Bottom Line  

The price-to-book (P/B) ratio considers how a stock is priced relative to the book value of its assets. If the P/B is under 1.0, then the market is thought to be underpricing the stock since the accounting value of its assets, if sold, would be greater than the market price of the shares. Therefore, value investors typically look for companies that have low price-to-book ratios, among other metrics. A high P/B ratio can also help investors identify and avoid overvalued companies.
What Is the Price-to-Cash Flow (P/CF) Ratio?  

The price-to-cash flow (P/CF) ratio is a stock valuation indicator or multiple that measures the value of a stock’s price relative to its operating cash flow per share. The ratio uses operating cash flow (OCF), which adds back non-cash expenses such as depreciation and amortization to net income.



P/CF is especially useful for valuing stocks that have positive cash flow but are not profitable because of large non-cash charges.





Key Takeaways

The price-to-cash flow (P/CF) ratio is a multiple that compares a company's market value to its operating cash flow or its stock price per share to operating cash flow per share.The P/CF multiple works well for companies that have large non-cash expenses such as depreciation.A low P/CF multiple may imply that a stock is undervalued in the market.Some analysts prefer P/CF over price-to-earnings (P/E) since earnings can be more easily manipulated than cash flows.












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   The Formula for the Price-to-Cash Flow (P/CF) Ratio Is  

﻿




Price to Cash Flow Ratio


=




Share Price




Operating Cash Flow per Share





\text{Price to Cash Flow Ratio}=\frac{\text{Share Price}}{\text{Operating Cash Flow per Share}}


Price to Cash Flow Ratio=Operating Cash Flow per ShareShare Price​﻿


  How to Calculate the Price-to-Cash Flow (P/CF) Ratio  

In order to avoid volatility in the multiple, a 30- or 60-day average price can be utilized to obtain a more stable stock value that is not skewed by random market movements.



The operating cash flow (OCF) used in the denominator of the ratio is obtained through a calculation of the trailing 12-month (TTM) OCFs generated by the firm divided by the number of shares outstanding.



In addition to doing the math on a per-share basis, the calculation can also be done on a whole-company basis by dividing a firm's total market value by its total OCF.


   What Does the Price-to-Cash Flow (P/CF) Ratio Tell You?  

The P/CF ratio measures how much cash a company generates relative to its stock price, rather than what it records in earnings relative to its stock price, as measured by the price-earnings (P/E) ratio.



The P/CF ratio is said to be a better investment valuation indicator than the P/E ratio because cash flows cannot be manipulated as easily as earnings, which are affected by accounting treatment for items such as depreciation and other non-cash charges. Some companies may appear unprofitable because of large non-cash expenses, for example, even though they have positive cash flows.


   Example of the Price-to-Cash Flow (P/CF) Ratio  

Consider a company with a share price of $10 and 100 million shares outstanding. The company has an OCF of $200 million in a given year. Its OCF per share is as follows: 









$200 Million


100 Million Shares



=


$


2



\frac{\text{\$200 Million}}{\text{100 Million Shares}} = \$2


100 Million Shares$200 Million​=$2



The company thus has a P/CF ratio of 5 or 5x ($10 share price / OCF per share of $2). This means that the company's investors are willing to pay $5 for every dollar of cash flow, or that the firm's market value covers its OCF five times.



Alternatively, one can calculate the P/CF ratio on a whole-company level by taking the ratio of the company’s market capitalization to its OCF. The market capitalization is $10 x 100 million shares = $1,000 million, so the ratio can also be calculated as $1,000 million / $200 million = 5.0, which is the same result as calculating the ratio on a per-share basis.


   Special Considerations  

The optimal level of this ratio depends on the sector in which a company operates and its stage of maturity. A new and rapidly growing technology company, for instance, may trade at a much higher ratio than a utility that has been in business for decades.



This is because, although the technology company may only be marginally profitable, investors will be willing to give it a higher valuation because of its growth prospects. The utility, on the other hand, has stable cash flows but few growth prospects and, as a result, trades at a lower valuation.



There is no single figure that points to an optimal P/CF ratio. However, generally speaking, a ratio in the low single digits may indicate the stock is undervalued, while a higher ratio may suggest potential overvaluation.


   The P/CF Ratio vs. the Price-to-Free-Cash Flow Ratio  

The price-to-free-cash flow ratio is a more rigorous measure than the P/CF ratio.



Though very similar to P/CF, this metric is considered a more exact measure because it uses free cash flow (FCF), which subtracts capital expenditures (CapEx) from a company's total OCF, thereby reflecting the actual cash flow available to fund non-asset-related growth. Companies use this metric when they need to expand their asset bases either to grow their businesses or simply to maintain acceptable levels of FCF.
What Is the Price-to-Earnings (P/E) Ratio?  

The price-to-earnings ratio is the ratio for valuing a company that measures its current share price relative to its earnings per share (EPS). The price-to-earnings ratio is also sometimes known as the price multiple or the earnings multiple.



P/E ratios are used by investors and analysts to determine the relative value of a company's shares in an apples-to-apples comparison to others in the same sector. It can also be used to compare a company against its own historical record or to compare aggregate markets against one another or over time.



P/E may be estimated on a trailing (backward-looking) or forward (projected) basis.






Subscribe to 'Term of the Day' and learn a new financial term every day. Stay informed and make smart financial decisions. Sign up now.





Key Takeaways

The price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio relates a company's share price to its earnings per share.A high P/E ratio could mean that a company's stock is overvalued, or that investors are expecting high growth rates in the future.Companies that have no earnings or that are losing money do not have a P/E ratio because there is nothing to put in the denominator.Two kinds of P/E ratios—forward and trailing P/E—are used in practice.A P/E ratio holds the most value to an analyst when compared against similar companies in the same industry or for a single company across a period of time.












Investopedia / Xiaojie Liu


   P/E Ratio Formula and Calculation  

The formula and calculation used for this process are as follows.








P/E Ratio


=



Market value per share


Earnings per share




\text{P/E Ratio} = \frac{\text{Market value per share}}{\text{Earnings per share}}


P/E Ratio=Earnings per shareMarket value per share​



To determine the P/E value, one must simply divide the current stock price by the earnings per share (EPS).



The current stock price (P) can be found simply by plugging a stock’s ticker symbol into any finance website, and although this concrete value reflects what investors must currently pay for a stock, the EPS is a slightly more nebulous figure.



EPS comes in two main varieties. TTM is a Wall Street acronym for "trailing 12 months". This number signals the company's performance over the past 12 months. The second type of EPS is found in a company's earnings release, which often provides EPS guidance. This is the company's best-educated guess of what it expects to earn in the future. These different versions of EPS form the basis of trailing and forward P/E, respectively.


   Understanding the P/E Ratio  

The price-to-earnings ratio (P/E) is one of the most widely used tools by which investors and analysts determine a stock's relative valuation. The P/E ratio helps one determine whether a stock is overvalued or undervalued. A company's P/E can also be benchmarked against other stocks in the same industry or against the broader market, such as the S&P 500 Index.



Sometimes, analysts are interested in long-term valuation trends and consider the P/E 10 or P/E 30 measures, which average the past 10 or past 30 years of earnings, respectively. These measures are often used when trying to gauge the overall value of a stock index, such as the S&P 500, because these longer-term measures can compensate for changes in the business cycle.



The P/E ratio of the S&P 500 has fluctuated from a low of around 5x (in 1917) to over 120x (in 2009 right before the financial crisis). The long-term average P/E for the S&P 500 is around 16x, meaning that the stocks that make up the index collectively command a premium 16 times greater than their weighted average earnings.





When to Review the P/E Ratio

Analysts and investors review a company's P/E ratio when they determine if the share price accurately represents the projected earnings per share.


   Forward Price-to-Earnings  

These two types of EPS metrics factor into the most common types of P/E ratios: the forward P/E and the trailing P/E. A third and less common variation uses the sum of the last two actual quarters and the estimates of the next two quarters.



The forward (or leading) P/E uses future earnings guidance rather than trailing figures. Sometimes called "estimated price to earnings," this forward-looking indicator is useful for comparing current earnings to future earnings and helps provide a clearer picture of what earnings will look like—without changes and other accounting adjustments.



However, there are inherent problems with the forward P/E metric—namely, companies could underestimate earnings in order to beat the estimated P/E when the next quarter's earnings are announced. Other companies may overstate the estimate and later adjust it going into their next earnings announcement. Furthermore, external analysts may also provide estimates, which may diverge from the company estimates, creating confusion.


   Trailing Price-to-Earnings  

The trailing P/E relies on past performance by dividing the current share price by the total EPS earnings over the past 12 months. It's the most popular P/E metric because it's the most objective—assuming the company reported earnings accurately. Some investors prefer to look at the trailing P/E because they don't trust another individual’s earnings estimates. But the trailing P/E also has its share of shortcomings—namely, that a company’s past performance doesn’t signal future behavior.



Investors should thus commit money based on future earnings power, not the past. The fact that the EPS number remains constant, while the stock prices fluctuate, is also a problem. If a major company event drives the stock price significantly higher or lower, the trailing P/E will be less reflective of those changes.



The trailing P/E ratio will change as the price of a company’s stock moves because earnings are only released each quarter, while stocks trade day in and day out. As a result, some investors prefer the forward P/E. If the forward P/E ratio is lower than the trailing P/E ratio, it means analysts are expecting earnings to increase; if the forward P/E is higher than the current P/E ratio, analysts expect them to decrease.


   Valuation From P/E  

The price-to-earnings ratio or P/E is one of the most widely used stock analysis tools by which investors and analysts determine stock valuation. In addition to showing whether a company's stock price is overvalued or undervalued, the P/E can reveal how a stock's valuation compares to its industry group or a benchmark like the S&P 500 Index.



In essence, the price-to-earnings ratio indicates the dollar amount an investor can expect to invest in a company in order to receive $1 of that company’s earnings. This is why the P/E is sometimes referred to as the price multiple because it shows how much investors are willing to pay per dollar of earnings. If a company was currently trading at a P/E multiple of 20x, the interpretation is that an investor is willing to pay $20 for $1 of current earnings.



The P/E ratio helps investors determine the market value of a stock as compared to the company's earnings. In short, the P/E ratio shows what the market is willing to pay today for a stock based on its past or future earnings. A high P/E could mean that a stock's price is high relative to earnings and possibly overvalued. Conversely, a low P/E might indicate that the current stock price is low relative to earnings. 


   Example of the P/E Ratio  

As a historical example, let's calculate the P/E ratio for Walmart Inc. (WMT) as of Feb. 3, 2021, when the company's stock price closed at $139.55. The company's earnings per share for the fiscal year ending Jan. 31, 2021, was $4.75, according to The Wall Street Journal.



Therefore, Walmart's P/E ratio was:



$139.55 / $4.75 = 29.38


  Comparing Companies Using P/E  

As an additional example, we can look at two financial companies to compare their P/E ratios and see which is relatively over- or undervalued.



Bank of America Corporation (BAC) closed out the year 2020 with the following stats:



Stock Price = $30.31Diluted EPS = $1.87P/E = 16.21x ($30.31 / $1.87)



In other words, Bank of America traded at roughly 16x trailing earnings. However, the 16.21 P/E multiple by itself isn't helpful unless you have something to compare it with, such as the stock's industry group, a benchmark index, or Bank of America's historical P/E range.



Bank of America's P/E at 16x was slightly higher than the S&P 500, which over time trades at about 15x trailing earnings. To compare Bank of America's P/E to a peer's, we can calculate the P/E for JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) as of the end of 2020 as well:



Stock Price = $127.07Diluted EPS = $8.88P/E = 14.31x



When you compare Bank of America's P/E of 16x to JPMorgan's P/E of roughly 14x, Bank of America's stock does not appear as overvalued as it did when compared with the average P/E of 15 for the S&P 500. Bank of America's higher P/E ratio might mean investors expected higher earnings growth in the future compared to JPMorgan and the overall market.



However, no single ratio can tell you all you need to know about a stock. Before investing, it is wise to use a variety of financial ratios to determine whether a stock is fairly valued and whether a company's financial health justifies its stock valuation.


   Investor Expectations  

In general, a high P/E suggests that investors are expecting higher earnings growth in the future compared to companies with a lower P/E. A low P/E can indicate either that a company may currently be undervalued or that the company is doing exceptionally well relative to its past trends. When a company has no earnings or is posting losses, in both cases, the P/E will be expressed as N/A. Though it is possible to calculate a negative P/E, this is not the common convention.



The price-to-earnings ratio can also be seen as a means of standardizing the value of $1 of earnings throughout the stock market. In theory, by taking the median of P/E ratios over a period of several years, one could formulate something of a standardized P/E ratio, which could then be seen as a benchmark and used to indicate whether or not a stock is worth buying.





N/A Meaning

A P/E ratio of N/A means the ratio is not available or not applicable for that company's stock. A company can have a P/E ratio of N/A if it's newly listed on the stock exchange and has not yet reported earnings, such as in the case of an initial public offering (IPO), but it also means a company has zero or negative earnings, Investors can thus interpret seeing N/A as a company reporting a net loss.


   P/E vs. Earnings Yield  

The inverse of the P/E ratio is the earnings yield (which can be thought of as the E/P ratio). The earnings yield is thus defined as EPS divided by the stock price, expressed as a percentage.



If Stock A is trading at $10, and its EPS for the past year was 50 cents (TTM), it has a P/E of 20 (i.e., $10 / 50 cents) and an earnings yield of 5% (50 cents / $10). If Stock B is trading at $20 and its EPS (TTM) was $2, it has a P/E of 10 (i.e., $20 / $2) and an earnings yield of 10% = ($2 / $20).



The earnings yield as an investment valuation metric is not as widely used as the P/E ratio. Earnings yields can be useful when concerned about the rate of return on investment. For equity investors, however, earning periodic investment income may be secondary to growing their investments' values over time. This is why investors may refer to value-based investment metrics such as the P/E ratio more often than earnings yield when making stock investments.



The earnings yield is also useful in producing a metric when a company has zero or negative earnings. Because such a case is common among high-tech, high-growth, or startup companies, EPS will be negative producing an undefined P/E ratio (denoted as N/A). If a company has negative earnings, however, it will produce a negative earnings yield, which can be interpreted and used for comparison.


   P/E vs. PEG Ratio  

A P/E ratio, even one calculated using a forward earnings estimate, doesn't always tell you whether the P/E is appropriate for the company's forecasted growth rate. So, to address this limitation, investors turn to another ratio called the PEG ratio.



A variation on the forward P/E ratio is the price/earnings-to-growth ratio, or PEG. The PEG ratio measures the relationship between the price/earnings ratio and earnings growth to provide investors with a more complete story than the P/E can on its own. In other words, the PEG ratio allows investors to calculate whether a stock's price is overvalued or undervalued by analyzing both today's earnings and the expected growth rate for the company in the future. The PEG ratio is calculated as a company’s trailing price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio divided by the growth rate of its earnings for a specified time period.



The PEG ratio is used to determine a stock's value based on trailing earnings while also taking the company's future earnings growth into account and is considered to provide a more complete picture than the P/E ratio can. For example, a low P/E ratio may suggest that a stock is undervalued and therefore should be bought—but factoring in the company's growth rate to get its PEG ratio can tell a different story. PEG ratios can be termed “trailing” if using historic growth rates or “forward” if using projected growth rates.



Although earnings growth rates can vary among different sectors, a stock with a PEG of less than 1 is typically considered undervalued because its price is considered low compared to the company's expected earnings growth. A PEG greater than 1 might be considered overvalued because it might indicate the stock price is too high compared to the company's expected earnings growth.


   Absolute vs. Relative P/E  

Analysts may also make a distinction between absolute P/E and relative P/E ratios in their analysis.


  Absolute P/E  

The numerator of this ratio is usually the current stock price, and the denominator may be the trailing EPS (TTM), the estimated EPS for the next 12 months (forward P/E), or a mix of the trailing EPS of the last two quarters and the forward P/E for the next two quarters.



When distinguishing absolute P/E from relative P/E, it is important to remember that absolute P/E represents the P/E of the current time period. For example, if the price of the stock today is $100, and the TTM earnings are $2 per share, the P/E is 50 = ($100 / $2).


  Relative P/E  

The relative P/E compares the current absolute P/E to a benchmark or a range of past P/Es over a relevant time period, such as the past 10 years. The relative P/E shows what portion or percentage of the past P/Es the current P/E has reached. The relative P/E usually compares the current P/E value to the highest value of the range, but investors might also compare the current P/E to the bottom side of the range, measuring how close the current P/E is to the historic low.



The relative P/E will have a value below 100% if the current P/E is lower than the past value (whether the past high or low). If the relative P/E measure is 100% or more, this tells investors that the current P/E has reached or surpassed the past value.


   Limitations of Using the P/E Ratio  

Like any other fundamental designed to inform investors as to whether or not a stock is worth buying, the price-to-earnings ratio comes with a few limitations that are important to take into account because investors may often be led to believe that there is one single metric that will provide complete insight into an investment decision, which is virtually never the case.



Companies that aren't profitable and, consequently, have no earnings—or negative earnings per share—pose a challenge when it comes to calculating their P/E. Opinions vary as to how to deal with this. Some say there is a negative P/E, others assign a P/E of 0, while most just say the P/E doesn't exist (N/A or not available) or is not interpretable until a company becomes profitable for purposes of comparison.



One primary limitation of using P/E ratios emerges when comparing the P/E ratios of different companies. Valuations and growth rates of companies may often vary wildly between sectors due to both the different ways companies earn money and the differing timelines during which companies earn that money.



As such, one should only use P/E as a comparative tool when considering companies in the same sector because this kind of comparison is the only kind that will yield productive insight. Comparing the P/E ratios of a telecommunications company and the P/E of an oil and gas drilling company, for example, may lead one to believe that one is clearly the superior investment, but this is not a reliable assumption.


   Other P/E Considerations  

An individual company’s P/E ratio is much more meaningful when taken alongside the P/E ratios of other companies within the same sector. For example, an energy company may have a high P/E ratio, but this may reflect a trend within the sector rather than one merely within the individual company. An individual company’s high P/E ratio, for example, would be less cause for concern when the entire sector has high P/E ratios.



Moreover, because a company’s debt can affect both the prices of shares and the company’s earnings, leverage can skew P/E ratios as well. For example, suppose there are two similar companies that differ primarily in the amount of debt they assume. The one with more debt will likely have a lower P/E value than the one with less debt. However, if the business is good, the one with more debt stands to see higher earnings because of the risks it has taken.



Another important limitation of price-to-earnings ratios is one that lies within the formula for calculating P/E itself. Accurate and unbiased presentations of P/E ratios rely on accurate inputs of the market value of shares and accurate earnings per share estimates. The market determines the prices of shares through its continuous auction. The printed prices are available from a wide variety of reliable sources. However, the source for earnings information is ultimately the company itself. This single source of data is more easily manipulated, so analysts and investors place trust in the company's officers to provide accurate information. If that trust is perceived to be broken, the stock will be considered riskier and therefore less valuable.



To reduce the risk of inaccurate information, the P/E ratio is but one measurement that analysts scrutinize. If the company were to intentionally manipulate the numbers to look better, and thus deceive investors, they would have to work strenuously to be certain that all metrics were manipulated in a coherent manner, which is difficult to do. That's why the P/E ratio continues to be one of the most centrally referenced points of data when analyzing a company, but by no means is it the only one.




What Is a Good Price-to-Earnings Ratio?
The question of what is a good or bad price-to-earnings ratio will necessarily depend on the industry in which the company is operating. Some industries will have higher average price-to-earnings ratios, while others will have lower ratios. For example, in January 2021, publicly traded broadcasting companies had an average trailing P/E ratio of only about 12, compared to more than 60 for software companies. If you want to get a general idea of whether a particular P/E ratio is high or low, you can compare it to the average P/E of the competitors within its industry.




Is It Better to Have a Higher or Lower P/E Ratio?
Many investors will say that it is better to buy shares in companies with a lower P/E because this means you are paying less for every dollar of earnings that you receive. In that sense, a lower P/E is like a lower price tag, making it attractive to investors looking for a bargain. In practice, however, it is important to understand the reasons behind a company’s P/E. For instance, if a company has a low P/E because its business model is fundamentally in decline, then the apparent bargain might be an illusion.




What Does a P/E Ratio of 15 Mean?
Simply put, a P/E ratio of 15 would mean that the current market value of the company is equal to 15 times its annual earnings. Put literally, if you were to hypothetically buy 100% of the company’s shares, it would take 15 years for you to earn back your initial investment through the company’s ongoing profits assuming the company never grew in the future.




Why Is the P/E Ratio Important?
The P/E ratio helps investors determine whether the stock of a company is overvalued or undervalued compared to its earnings. The ratio is a measurement of what the market is willing to pay for the current operations as well as the prospective growth of the company. If a company is trading at a high P/E ratio, the market thinks highly of its growth potential and is willing to potentially overspend today based on future earnings.
What Is the Price to Free Cash Flow Ratio?  

Price to free cash flow (P/FCF) is an equity valuation metric that compares a company's per-share market price to its free cash flow (FCF). This metric is very similar to the valuation metric of price to cash flow but is considered a more exact measure because it uses free cash flow, which subtracts capital expenditures (CAPEX) from a company's total operating cash flow, thereby reflecting the actual cash flow available to fund non-asset-related growth.



Companies can use this metric to base growth decisions and maintain acceptable free cash flow levels.





Key Takeaways

Price to free cash flow is an equity valuation metric that indicates a company's ability to continue operating. It is calculated by dividing its market capitalization by free cash flow values.Relative to competitor businesses, a lower value for price to free cash flow indicates that the company is undervalued and its stock is relatively cheap.Relative to competitor businesses, a higher value for price to free cash flow indicates a company's stock is overvalued.The price to free cash flow ratio can be used to compare a company's stock value to its cash management practices over time.


   Understanding the Price to Free Cash Flow Ratio  

A company's free cash flow is essential because it is a primary indicator of its ability to generate additional revenues, which is a crucial element in stock pricing.



The price to free cash flow metric is calculated as follows:


















Price to FCF


=



Market Capitalization


Free Cash Flow








\begin{aligned} &\text{Price to FCF} = \frac { \text{Market Capitalization} }{ \text{Free Cash Flow} } \\ \end{aligned}


​Price to FCF=Free Cash FlowMarket Capitalization​​



For example, a company with $100 million in total operating cash flow and $50 million in capital expenditures has a free cash flow total of $50 million. If the company's market cap value is $1 billion, it has a ratio of 20, meaning its stock trades at 20 times its free cash flow - $1 billion / $50 million.



You might find a company that has more free cash flows than it does market cap or one that is very close to equal amounts of both. For example, a market cap of 102 million and free cash flows of 110 million would result in a ratio of .93. There is nothing inherently wrong with this if it is typical for the company's industry. However, suppose the company operates in an industry where comparable company market caps hover around 200 million. In that case, you may want to investigate further to determine why the business's market cap is low.






Free cash flows or market caps that are non-typical for a company's size and industry should raise the flag for further investigation. The business might be in financial trouble, or it might not—it's critical to find out.


   How Is the Price to Free Cash Flow Ratio Used?  

Because the price to free cash flow ratio is a value metric, lower numbers generally indicate that a company is undervalued and its stock is relatively cheap in relation to its free cash flow. Conversely, higher price to free cash flow numbers may indicate that the company's stock is somewhat overvalued in relation to its free cash flow.



Therefore, value investors tend to favor companies with low or decreasing P/FCF values that indicate high or increasing free cash flow totals and relatively low stock share prices compared to similar companies in the same industry.






The price to free cash flow ratio is a comparative metric that needs to be compared to something to mean anything. Past P/FCF ratios, competitor ratios, or industry norms are comparable ratios that can be used to gauge value.



They tend to avoid companies with high price to free cash flow values that indicate the company's share price is relatively high compared to its free cash flow. In short, the lower the price to free cash flow, the more a company's stock is considered to be a better bargain or value.



As with any equity evaluation metric, it is most useful to compare a company's P/FCF to that of similar companies in the same industry. However, the price to free cash flow metric can also be viewed over a long-term time frame to see if the company's cash flow to share price value is generally improving or worsening.


  The Ratio Can Be Manipulated  

The price to free cash flow ratio can be manipulated by a company. For example, you might find some that preserve cash levels in a reporting period by delaying inventory purchases or their accounts payable payments until after they have published their financial statements.



The fact that reported numbers can be manipulated makes it essential that you analyze a company's finances entirely to achieve a larger picture of how it is doing financially. When you do this over a few reporting periods, you can see what a company is doing with its cash, how it is using it, and how other investors value the company.




What Is a Good Price to Free Cash Flow Ratio?
A good price to free cash flow ratio is one that indicates its stock is undervalued. A company's P/FCF should be compared to the ratios of similar companies to determine whether it is under- or over-valued in the industry it operates in. Generally speaking, the lower the ratio, the cheaper the stock is.




Is a High Price to Free Cash Flow Ratio Good?
A high ratio—one that is higher than is typical for the industry it operates in—may indicate a company's stock is overvalued.




Is Price to Cash Flow the Same as Price to Free Cash Flow?
Price to cash flow accounts for all cash a company has. Price to free cash flow removes capital expenditures, working capital, and dividends so that you compare the cash a company has left over after obligations to its stock price. As a result, it is a better indicator of the ability of a business to continue operating.
What Is the Price-to-Rent Ratio?  

The price-to-rent ratio is the ratio of home prices to annualized rent in a given location. This ratio is used as a benchmark for estimating whether it's cheaper to rent or own property. The price-to-rent ratio is used as an indicator for whether housing markets are fairly valued, or in a bubble.





Key Takeaways

Price-to-rent is used as a benchmark for estimating whether it is cheaper to rent or own property.It compares the economics of buying versus renting but says nothing about the affordability of either.Trulia’s own price-to-rent ratio is called the Rent vs. Buy Index—comparing the total costs of homeownership with the total cost of renting a similar property.


   Formula and Calculation of Price-to-Rent Ratio  

The price-to-rent ratio is calculated by dividing the median home price by the median yearly rent and the formula for the price-to-rent ratio is as follows:



﻿















Price-to-Rent Ratio


=




Median Home Price




Median Annual Rent










\begin{aligned} &\text{Price-to-Rent Ratio} = \frac{ \text{Median Home Price} }{ \text{Median Annual Rent} } \\ \end{aligned}


​Price-to-Rent Ratio=Median Annual RentMedian Home Price​​﻿


   What the Price-to-Rent Ratio Can Tell You  

The price-to-rent ratio is used as an indicator for whether housing markets are fairly valued, or in a bubble. The dramatic increase in the ratio leading up to the 2008-2009 housing market crash was, with hindsight, a red flag for the housing bubble. Trulia produces a price-to-rent ratio called the Trulia Rent Versus Buy Index, which compares the total costs of homeownership with the total cost of renting a similar property.



The total cost of homeownership factors in mortgage principal and interest, property taxes, insurance, closing costs, homeowners association (HOA), mortgage insurance, and tax advantages, such as the mortgage interest deduction.



Trulia established thresholds for the ratios as follows: a price-to-rent ratio of 1 to 15 indicates it is much better to buy than rent; a price-to-rent ratio of 16 to 20 indicates it is typically better to rent than buy, and a price-to-rent ratio of 21 or more indicates it is much better to rent than buy.﻿﻿


   Special Considerations  

The price-to-rent ratio shows whether buying or renting would be best for a particular property in a given market. The housing affordability index lays out whether an average family can afford the property based on home prices and income levels. This index is most often used as a gauge for qualifying for a mortgage.



While the price-to-rent ratio compares the economics of buying versus renting, it says nothing about the overall affordability of buying or renting in a given market. Cities where both renting and buying are very expensive, such as San Francisco or New York, could have the same price-to-rent ratio as a small Midwestern town where both homes and rents are relatively cheap.


   Example of How to Use the Price-to-Rent Ratio  

As of the second quarter of 2020, the median home value was $291,300.﻿﻿ The median home rent was $1,463 for August 2020.﻿﻿ The price-to-rent ratio, thus, was 16.6, or $291,300 / ($1,463 * 12). This is across the U.S., but the price-to-rent ratio can also be calculated based on figures for a specific city.






The total costs of renting factors in actual rent and renter's insurance.



For Trulia’s version of the price-to-rent ratio, it currently sits at around 18, suggesting it's better to rent than buy as of April 2020.﻿﻿
What Is the Price-to-Sales (P/S) Ratio?  

The price-to-sales (P/S) ratio is a valuation ratio that compares a company’s stock price to its revenues. It is an indicator of the value that financial markets have placed on each dollar of a company’s sales or revenues.





Key Takeaways

The price-to-sales (P/S) ratio shows how much investors are willing to pay per dollar of sales for a stock. The P/S ratio is calculated by dividing the stock price by the underlying company's sales per share.A low ratio could imply the stock is undervalued, while a ratio that is higher-than-average could indicate that the stock is overvalued.One of the downsides of the P/S ratio is that it doesn’t take into account whether the company makes any earnings or whether it will ever make earnings.












Investopedia / Candra Huff


   Understanding Price-to-Sales (P/S) Ratio  

The P/S ratio is a key analysis and valuation tool for investors and analysts. The ratio shows how much investors are willing to pay per dollar of sales. It can be calculated either by dividing the company’s market capitalization by its total sales over a designated period (usually twelve months) or on a per-share basis by dividing the stock price by sales per share. The P/S ratio is also known as a sales multiple or revenue multiple.



Like all ratios, the P/S ratio is most relevant when used to compare companies in the same sector. A low ratio may indicate the stock is undervalued, while a ratio that is significantly above the average may suggest overvaluation.



The typical 12-month period used for sales in the P/S ratio is generally the past four quarters (also called trailing 12 months or TTM), or the most recent or current fiscal year (FY). A P/S ratio that is based on forecast sales for the current year is called a forward P/S ratio.



To determine the P/S ratio, one must divide the current stock price by the sales per share. The current stock price can be found by plugging the stock symbol into any major finance website. The sales per share metric is calculated by dividing a company’s sales by the number of outstanding shares.


















P/S Ratio


=




M


V


S




S


P


S


















where:
















M


V


S


=


Market Value per Share
















S


P


S


=


Sales per Share







\begin{aligned} &\text{P/S Ratio}=\frac{MVS}{SPS}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &MVS = \text{Market Value per Share}\\ &SPS = \text{Sales per Share}\\ \end{aligned}


​P/S Ratio=SPSMVS​where:MVS=Market Value per ShareSPS=Sales per Share​






As is the case with other ratios, the P/S ratio is of greatest value when it is used for comparing companies within the same sector.



The P/S ratio doesn’t take into account whether the company makes any earnings or whether it will ever make earnings. Comparing companies in different industries can prove difficult as well. For example, companies that make video games will have different capabilities when it comes to turning sales into profits when compared to, say, grocery retailers. In addition, P/S ratios do not account for debt loads or the status of a company’s balance sheet. That is, a company with virtually no debt will be more attractive than a highly leveraged company with the same P/S ratio.



While the P/S ratio doesn’t take debt into account, the enterprise value-to-sales ratio (EV/Sales) does. The EV/Sales ratio uses enterprise value and not market capitalization like the P/S ratio. Enterprise value adds debt and preferred shares to the market cap and subtracts cash. The EV/Sales ratio is said to be superior, although it involves more steps and isn’t always as readily available.


   Examples of the Price-to-Sales (P/S) Ratio  

As an example, consider the quarterly sales for Acme Co. shown in the table below. The sales for fiscal year 1 (FY1) are actual sales, while sales for FY2 are analysts’ average forecasts (assume that we are currently in the first quarter or Q1 of FY2). Acme has 100 million shares outstanding, with the shares presently trading at $10 per share.
















 
FY1-Q1
FY1-Q2
FY1-Q3
FY1-Q4
FY2-Q1
FY2-Q2
FY2-Q3
FY2-Q4




Revenues ($ million)
$100
$110
$120
$125
$130
$135
$130
$125






At the present time, Acme’s P/S ratio on a trailing-12-month basis would be calculated as follows:



Sales for the past 12 months (TTM) = $455 million (sum of all FY1 values)Sales per share (TTM) = $4.55 ($455 million in sales / 100 million shares outstanding)P/S ratio = 2.2 ($10 share price / $4.55 sales per share)



Acme’s P/S ratio for the current fiscal year would be calculated as follows:



Sales for the current fiscal year (FY2) = $520 millionSales per share = $5.20P/S ratio = $10 / $5.20 = 1.92



If Acme’s peers—which we assume are based in the same sector and are of similar size in terms of market capitalization—are trading at an average P/S ratio (TTM) of 1.5, compared with Acme’s 2.2, it suggests a premium valuation for the company. One reason for this could be the 14.3% revenue growth that Acme is expected to post in the current fiscal year ($520 million versus $455 million), which may be better than what is expected for its peers.


  Apple Example  

Taking that a step further, consider Apple's fiscal 2020 revenues of $274.5 billion. With 16.53 billion in outstanding shares as of Sept. 30, 2021, Apple's sales per share are $16.60. With a stock price of $145, it would give the company a P/S ratio of 8.73.



In comparison, Google trades with a P/S ratio of 6.29 and Microsoft at 10.87, suggesting that Apple and Google may potentially be undervalued or Microsoft might be overvalued.




Why Is the Price-to-Sales (P/S) Ratio Useful to Investors?
The P/S ratio, also known as a sales multiple or revenue multiple, is a key analysis and valuation tool for investors and analysts. The ratio shows how much investors are willing to pay per dollar of sales. It can be calculated either by dividing the company’s market capitalization by its total sales over a designated period (usually twelve months) or on a per-share basis by dividing the stock price by sales per share. Like all ratios, the P/S ratio is most relevant when used to compare companies in the same sector. A low ratio may indicate the stock is undervalued, while a ratio that is significantly above the average may suggest overvaluation.




What Are the Limitations of the Price-to-Sales (P/S) Ratio?
The P/S ratio doesn’t take into account whether the company makes any earnings or whether it will ever make earnings. Comparing companies in different industries can prove difficult as well. For example, companies that make video games will have different capabilities when it comes to turning sales into profits when compared to, say, grocery retailers. In addition, P/S ratios do not account for debt loads or the status of a company’s balance sheet.




What Is Enterprise Value-to-Sales (EV/Sales)?
Enterprise value-to-sales (EV/sales) measures how much it would cost to purchase a company's value in terms of its sales. A lower EV/sales multiple indicates that a company is a more attractive investment as it may be relatively undervalued. Essentially, it uses enterprise value and not market capitalization like the P/S ratio. Enterprise value adds debt and preferred shares to the market cap and subtracts cash. Since it does account for a company's debt load, the EV/Sales ratio is said to be superior, although it involves more steps and isn’t always as readily available.
What Is Price to Tangible Book Value (PTBV)?  

Price to tangible book value (PTBV) is a valuation ratio expressing the price of a security compared to its hard or tangible net assets' book value as reported in the company's balance sheet. The tangible book value number is equal to the company's total book value less the value of any intangible assets, such as patents, intellectual property, goodwill, etc.





Key Takeaways

Price to tangible book value (PTBV) measures a company's market value relative to its hard or tangible assets.The tangible book value number is equal to the company's total book value less the value of any intangible assets.In theory, a stock's tangible book value per share represents the amount of money an investor would receive for each share if a company were to cease operations and liquidate all of its assets.Stocks that trade at higher PTBV ratios have the potential to leave investors with greater share price losses than those that trade at lower ratios.PTBV is applicable mainly to industrial or capital-intensive companies that own a relatively high proportion of hard assets.


   Understanding Price to Tangible Book Value (PTBV)  

A tangible asset (hard asset) is one owned by a company that can be physically touched or handled. Examples include machinery, equipment, raw materials, inventories, vehicles, property, and so on.



In theory, a stock's tangible book value per share represents the amount of money an investor would receive for each share if a company were to cease operations and liquidate all of its assets at the value recorded on the company's accounting books.



As a rule of thumb, stocks that trade at higher PTBV ratios have the potential to leave investors with greater share price losses than those that trade at lower ratios, since the tangible book value per share can reasonably be viewed as the lowest price at which a stock could trade.


  The PTBV Formula  

PTBV = Share Price / Tangible Book Value Per Share



Where:



Share price is the current market price per share of stock.
Tangible Book Value Per Share (TBVPS) is equal to total tangible net assets divided by the total number of shares outstanding.


   When to Use Price to Tangible Book Value  

PTBV is applicable mainly to industrial or capital-intensive companies that own a relatively high proportion of hard assets, as opposed to firms that engage in light manufacturing or operate in service-oriented industries.



PTBV is rather meaningless as a valuation measure in the technology sector, for instance, because much of a tech company's valuation derives from intellectual property, an intangible asset. An investor must also be careful with PTBV for companies that have long-held land. The land is stated at historical cost, not marked up each year on the balance sheet, resulting in a deceivingly high PTBV ratio.


   Example of Price to Tangible Book Value  

At the end of 2020, the tangible book value of General Motors was $44.44 billion (total net assets of $235.19 billion less $5.23 billion of goodwill and intangible assets less $185.52 billion in liabilities). $1.4 billion shares were outstanding, yielding a tangible book value per share of $31.74.



The closing price per share of GM on the last day of 2020 was $41.64. Therefore, PTBV was $41.64/$31.74, or 1.31. An analyst could study the trend of this ratio or compare it with those of its peer group.




How Does PTBV Differ From Price-to-Book (P/B)?
These two measures are nearly identical, except P/B will include the book value of all assets, inclusive of intangible assets. PTBV excludes intangible assets such as intellectual property (patents, trademarks, etc.) and goodwill.




When Is PTBV Most Useful?
Today, many companies derive a great deal of value from intangible assets and may not have very many tangible assets on their balance sheet. Thus, PTBV is most useful when evaluating capital-intensive companies that rely on hard assets, such as manufacturers or miners.




What Does PTBV Represent?
PTBV represents the market value of a company's shares as a multiple against the amount it would receive if it sold all of its hard assets.
What Does Price Value of a Basis Point Mean?  

Price value of a basis point (PVBP) is a measure used to describe how a basis point change in yield affects the price of a bond.



Price value of a basis point is also known as the value of a basis point (VBP), dollar value of a basis point (DVBP), or basis point value (BPV).












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019


   Understanding Price Value of a Basis Point (PVBP)  

The price value of a basis point is a method of measuring the price sensitivity of a bond. This is often established by assessing the absolute change in the price of a bond if the required yield changes by one basis point (BPS). In other words, PVBP is the price change of a bond when there is a .01% (one basis point) change in the yield. Price volatility is the same for an increase or a decrease of one basis point in required yield.



Because this measure of price volatility is in terms of dollar price change, dividing the PVBP by the initial price gives the percentage price change for a 1-basis-point change in yield. Since there is an inverse relationship between bond price and yield, as bond prices fall by decreasing dollar amounts, their yields increase, and vice versa. The degree of change in bond price for each basis point change in yield is determined by a number of other factors, such as the bond's coupon rate, time to maturity, and credit rating.



A bigger price value of a basis point means a bigger move in the bond’s price due to a given change in interest rates. PVBP can be calculated on an estimated basis from the modified duration as Modified duration x Dirty Price x 0.0001. The modified duration measures the proportional change in the price of a bond for a unit change in yield. It is simply a measure of the weighted average maturity of a fixed income security’s cash flows. As yields fall, modified duration increases and a higher modified duration implies that a security is more interest-rate sensitive. The dirty price factored into the formula is defined as the total price paid for a bond after including accrued interest on the date of purchase.



Let’s assume an analyst wants to understand how a price change for a bond will affect the value of the security if yields change by 100 basis points. The par value of the bond purchased at par is $10,000, and the price value of a basis point is given as $13.55.



PVBP = modified duration x $10,000 x 0.0001



13.55 = modified duration x 1



Modified duration = 13.55



This means that if rates go down 100bp (i.e. 1%), the value of the bond will increase by 13.55% x $10,000 = $1,355.



Another way to look at this is to remember that the PVBP is the price change of a bond when there is a 1 basis point change in the yield. In this case, the PVBP is $13.55. Therefore, a change of 100 basis point in the yield will be $13.55 x 100 = $1,355.
What Is a Price-Weighted Index?  

A price-weighted index is a stock index in which each company included in the index makes up a fraction of the total index proportional to that company's share stock price per share. In its simplest form, adding the price of each stock in the index and dividing by the total number of companies determines the index's value.



A stock with a higher price will be given more weight than a stock with a lower price and will thus have a greater influence on the index's performance.





Key Takeaways

In a price-weighted stock index, each company's stock is weighted by its price per share, and the index is an average of the share prices of all the companies.Price-weighted indexes give greater weight to stocks with higher prices in terms of their contribution to the index value and changes in the index.A price-weighted index can be used to track the average stock price of a given market or industry.


   Understanding a Price-Weighted Index  

In a price-weighted index, a stock that increases from $110 to $120 will have the same effect on the index as a stock that increases from $10 to $20, even though the percentage move for the latter is far greater than that of the higher-priced stock. Higher-priced stocks exert a greater influence on the index's, or the basket's, overall direction.



To calculate the value of a simple price-weighted index, find the sum of the share prices of the individual companies, and divide by the number of companies. In some averages, this divisor is adjusted in order to maintain continuity in the event of stock splits or changes to the list of companies included in the index.



Price-weighted indexes are useful because the index value will be equal to (or at least proportionate to) the average stock price for the companies included in the index. This allows the construction of indexes that will track the average stock price performance of a specific sector or market.



One of the most popular price-weighted stocks is the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA), which consists of 30 different stocks, or components. In this index, the higher-price stocks move the index more than those with lower prices, thus the price-weighted designation. The Nikkei 225 is another example of a price-weighted index.


   Other Weighted Indexes  

In addition to price-weighted indexes, other basic types of weighted indexes include value-weighted indexes and unweighted indexes. For a value-weighted index, like those in the MSCI family of strategy indexes, the number of outstanding shares is a factor. To determine the weight of each stock in a value-weighted index, the price of the stock is multiplied by the number of shares outstanding.



For example, if Stock A has five million outstanding shares and is trading at $15, then its weight in the index is $75 million. If Stock B is trading at $30, but only has one million outstanding shares, its weight is $30 million. So, in a value-weighted index, Stock A would have more say in how the index moves than Stock B.



In an unweighted index, all stocks have the same impact on the index, no matter their share volume or price. Any price change in the index is based on the return percentage of each component. For example, if Stock A is up 30%, Stock B is up 20%, and Stock C is up 10%, the index is up 20%, or (30 + 20 + 10)/3 (i.e., the number of stocks in the index).



Other types of weighted indexes include revenue-weighted, fundamentally weighted, and float-adjusted. All have their positives and negatives, depending on the investor's goals and market knowledge.
What Is Prima Facie?  

The Latin expression prima facie means “at first sight”, “at first view", or "based on first impression". In both civil and criminal law, the term is used to denote that, upon initial examination, a legal claim has sufficient evidence to proceed to trial or judgment.



In most legal proceedings, one party (typically, the plaintiff or the prosecutor) has a burden of proof, which requires them to present prima facie evidence for each element of the charges against the defendant. If they can't present prima facie evidence, or if an opposing party introduces contradictory evidence, the initial claim may be dismissed without any need for a response by other parties.





Key Takeaways

Prima facie refers to a case in which pre-trial evidence was reviewed by a judge and determined to be sufficient to warrant the trial.Prima facie is typically used in civil cases, where the burden of proof is on the plaintiff.However, just because a case has been determined prima facie doesn't mean that the plaintiff will win.If the plaintiff lacks sufficient evidence supporting their claim, then the court will likely dismiss the case.If the court determines that a prima facie case exists, the defendant must present evidence that overcomes the prima facie case in order to prevail.


   Understanding Prima Facie  

In civil litigation, a plaintiff files a lawsuit claiming that a defendant’s actions (or inactions) caused an injury.



For example, a business may file a claim indicating that one of its vendors is in breach of contract after failing to deliver an order and that the failure to deliver resulted in the business losing customers. The complaint filed with the court provides background information on the reason for the lawsuit, what the injury was, and how the defendant may have contributed to this injury occurring. Before going to trial, the court must determine if the case has enough merit to be tried in court. Upon an initial examination of the claim during a pre-trial hearing, a judge may determine that enough evidence exists to establish a rebuttable presumption in favor of the plaintiff. The case is thus considered prima facie.



Even if a prima facie case is permitted to go to trial, the plaintiff is not guaranteed to win the lawsuit. Civil lawsuits place the burden of proof on the plaintiff, and only if the plaintiff is able to provide a preponderance of evidence will the court consider the claim to be valid. If the plaintiff lacks sufficient evidence supporting its claim that the defendant caused injury, then the court will likely find against the plaintiff and dismiss the case. If the court determines that a prima facie case exists, the defendant must present evidence that overcomes the prima facie case in order to prevail.


   Prima Facie in Tort Law  

Prima facie in tort law aims to provide relief to plaintiffs (the injured party) for harms caused by others (defendants) who harm them with malicious intent, but in a way that is not technically or specifically unlawful. A plaintiff will need to prove that a defendant has met all the components of a prima facie tort case in order to prove that the defendant committed that tort.



These components are typically duty, breach, damages, and causation:



The plaintiff must show that the person who injured them had a duty (civil obligation) to not harm them,That the plaintiff breached that duty by harming them with malicious intention and no other justification.There were actual damages.The defendant's breach caused those damages.



For example, consider a prima facie tort case where a landlord wants to get rid of a dental practice in their office space simply because he does not like dentists, so he takes action to get rid of the dentist for that reason alone. The actions of the landlord damage the reputation of the dentist and his patients stop coming. The dentist goes out of business and leaves the office space. In this example, all the components of a prima facie case can be established (malice and damages seem obvious).



However, if any of these components can't be proved by the plaintiff, then the court will likely assert that the tort did not occur. Consider a different scenario where an employee injures her foot but her job requires her to stand for the whole day. She complains to her boss and asks for a chair, but the boss refuses to accommodate her because there are no chairs in the workplace. Here, the boss doesn't have a desire to hurt the employee. Therefore, if the employee were to sue their boss for prima facie tort, they would not be able to establish malice and their case would likely be dismissed.


   Prima Facie in Criminal Law  

Prima facie works similarly in criminal law: the prosecution has to present a prima facie case that the defendant is guilty of the crime charged. If the prosecution cannot present evidence supporting each component of the crime, the defendant must be acquitted from the charges.



For example, in a case of burglary, the prosecution must present evidence that the defendant entered the premises without authorization and with the intention of committing burglary, and that the defendant stole items from the premises.






In a prima facie case, the defendant has the opportunity to offer evidence disputing each element of the crime that the prosecution has established. On the other hand, the prosecution must prove each element beyond a reasonable doubt. The defendant's main goal will usually be just to cast doubt upon the prosecution's proof, and if they succeed in doing so, they must be acquitted.


   Prima Facie and Employment Discrimination  

Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibits discrimination in employment on the basis of sex, race, color, national origin, and religion.



To establish a prima facie case of employment discrimination a plaintiff must prove the following: 1) They were a member of a protected class; 2) They suffered an adverseemployment action; 3) They met their employer’s legitimate expectations at the time of the adverse employment action, and 4) They were treated differently from similarly situated employees outside their protected class.



In some instances, the evidence presented in a claim is enough to allow for summary judgment. In a prima facie case, the facts established are sufficient enough to prove that the defendant’s actions support the plaintiff’s claims of injury. In employment discrimination lawsuits, for example, the courts have established tests and guidelines that judges use to determine whether a summary judgment can be given. If the plaintiff is able to establish a prima facie case, then the burden of proof shifts toward the defendant, who must prove that an employee was terminated for reasons other than discrimination.


   Real-World Example  

The issue of prima facie has been addressed by the U.S. Supreme Court, for example, in the 1992 case of St. Mary's Honor Center v. Hicks. In this case, an employee of a halfway house alleged that he was discharged because of his race, in violation of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. When tried in District Court, the employee established a prima facie case of discrimination but was found to have not provided sufficient evidence to prove that the employer was using race as a factor when it decided to fire the plaintiff. The case went to the United States Court of Appeals, and later to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court found that while the employee did establish a prima facie case, this did not entitle the employee to a mandatory win.




What Are the 4 Elements of a Prima Facie Case of Negligence?
The four elements required to establish a prima facie case of negligence are: The existence of a legal duty that the defendant owed to the plaintiffThe defendant's breach of that dutyThe plaintiff's sufferance of an injuryProof that the defendant's breach caused the injury 




What Is Prima Facie Eligibility?
A trial or judgment is said to be prima facie eligible when the pre-trial evidence has been presented by the plaintiff, reviewed by a judge, and determined to be sufficient to warrant the trial.




What Are Prima Facie Duties?
According to Scottish moral philosopher W. D. Ross in his book Right and the Good, a prima facie duty is "a duty that is binding or obligatory, other things being equal." Common examples include the duty to tell the truth, obey the law, protect people from harm, and keep one’s promises.
What Is a Primary Market?  

A primary market is a source of new securities. Often on an exchange, it's where companies, governments, and other groups go to obtain financing through debt-based or equity-based securities. Primary markets are facilitated by underwriting groups consisting of investment banks that set a beginning price range for a given security and oversee its sale to investors.



Once the initial sale is complete, further trading is conducted on the secondary market, where the bulk of exchange trading occurs each day.





Key Takeaways

In the primary market, new stocks and bonds are sold to the public for the first time.In a primary market, investors are able to purchase securities directly from the issuer.Types of primary market issues include an initial public offering (IPO), a private placement, a rights issue, and a preferred allotment. Stock exchanges instead represent secondary markets, where investors buy and sell from one another.After they’ve been issued on the primary market, securities are traded between investors on what is called the secondary market—essentially, the familiar stock exchanges.


   Understanding Primary Markets  

The primary market is where securities are created. It's in this market that firms sell or float (in finance lingo) new stocks and bonds to the public for the first time. 



Companies and government entities sell new issues of common and preferred stock, corporate bonds and government bonds, notes, and bills on the primary market to fund business improvements or expand operations. Although an investment bank may set the securities' initial price and receive a fee for facilitating sales, most of the money raised from the sales goes to the issuer.



The primary market isn't a physical place; it reflects more the nature of the goods. The key defining characteristic of a primary market is that securities on it are purchased directly from an issuer—as opposed to being bought from a previous purchaser or investor, "second-hand" so to speak.






Investors typically pay less for securities on the primary market than on the secondary market.



All issues on the primary market are subject to strict regulation. Companies must file statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and other securities agencies and must wait until their filings are approved before they can offer them for sale to investors.



After the initial offering is completed—that is, all the stock shares or bonds are sold—that primary market closes. Those securities then start trading on the secondary market.


   Types of Primary Market Issues  

An initial public offering, or IPO, is an example of a security issued on a primary market. An IPO occurs when a private company sells shares of stock to the public for the first time, a process known as "going public." The process, including the original price of the new shares, is set by a designated investment bank, hired by the company to do the initial underwriting for a particular stock. 



For example, company ABCWXYZ Inc. hires five underwriting firms to determine the financial details of its IPO. The underwriters detail that the issue price of the stock will be $15. Investors can then buy the IPO at this price directly from the issuing company. This is the first opportunity that investors have to contribute capital to a company through the purchase of its stock. A company's equity capital is comprised of the funds generated by the sale of stock on the primary market.



A rights offering (issue) permits companies to raise additional equity through the primary market after already having securities enter the secondary market. Current investors are offered prorated rights based on the shares they currently own, and others can invest anew in newly minted shares.


   Private Placement and Primary Market  

Other types of primary market offerings for stocks include private placement and preferential allotment. Private placement allows companies to sell directly to more significant investors such as hedge funds and banks without making shares publicly available. Preferential allotment offers shares to select investors (usually hedge funds, banks, and mutual funds) at a special price not available to the general public.



Similarly, businesses and governments that want to generate debt capital can choose to issue new short- and long-term bonds on the primary market. New bonds are issued with coupon rates that correspond to the current interest rates at the time of issuance, which may be higher or lower than those offered by pre-existing bonds.


   Primary Market vs. Secondary Market  

The primary market refers to the market where securities are created and first issued, while the secondary market is one in which they are traded afterward among investors.


  Primary Market  

Take, for example, U.S. Treasuries—the bonds, bills, and notes issued by the U.S. government. The Dept. of the Treasury announces new issues of these debt securities at periodic intervals and sells them at auctions, which are held multiple times throughout the year. This is an example of the primary market in action.






Individual investors can buy newly issued U.S. Treasuries directly from the government via TreasuryDirect, an electronic marketplace and online account system. This can save them money on brokerage commissions and other middleman fees.



  Secondary Market  

Now, let's say some of the investors who bought some of the government's bonds or bills at these auctions—they're usually institutional investors, like brokerages, banks, pension funds, or investment funds—want to sell them. They offer them on stock exchanges or markets like the NYSE, Nasdaq, or over-the-counter (OTC), where other investors can buy them. These U.S. Treasuries are now on the secondary market.



With equities, the distinction between primary and secondary markets can seem a little cloudier. Essentially, the secondary market is what's commonly referred to as "the stock market," the stock exchanges where investors buy and sell shares from one another. But in fact, a stock exchange can be the site of both a primary and secondary market.



For example, when a company makes its public debut on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the first offering of its new shares constitutes a primary market. The shares that trade afterward, with their prices daily listed on the NYSE, are part of the secondary market.


   Types of Secondary Markets  

Secondary markets are further divided into two types:



An auction market, an open outcry system where buyers and sellers congregate in one location and announce the prices at which they are willing to buy and sell their securitiesA dealer market, in which participants in the market are joined through electronic networks. The dealers hold an inventory of security, then stand ready to buy or sell with market participants.



The key distinction between primary and secondary markets: the seller or source of the securities. In a primary market, it's the issuer of the shares or bonds or whatever the asset is. In a secondary market, it's another investor or owner. When you buy a security on the primary market, you're buying a new issue directly from the issuer, and it's a one-time transaction. When you buy a security on the secondary market, the original issuer of that security—be it a company or a government—doesn't take any part and doesn't share in the proceeds.



In short, securities are bought on the primary market. They trade on the secondary market.


   Examples of Primary Markets  

In June 2017, the Republic of Argentina announced it was selling $2.75 billion worth of debt in a two-part U.S. dollar bond sale. Funding was going toward liability management purposes. Joint underwriters included Morgan Stanley, Bank of America, Merrill Lynch, Deutsche Bank, and Credit Suisse. It marked the first time a junk-rated government—Argentina had only returned to the debt markets the previous year after massive defaults had barred it for a while—offered century bonds  (which mature in 100 years).


  Facebook’s Initial Public Offering  

Facebook's (META), now Meta, initial public offering in 2012 was, at the time, the largest IPO of an online company and the largest IPOs in the technology sector in US history. Expectations were high: Many investors believed the stock's value would very quickly increase on the secondary market due to the company's popularity and rapid success. Because of high demand in the primary market, underwriters priced the stock at $38 per share, at the top of the targeted $35-38 range, and raised the stock offering level by 25% to 421 million shares. The stock valuation became $104 billion, the largest of any newly public company.



Although Facebook raised $16 billion through the primary market, the stock did not greatly increase in value the day of the IPO: It closed at $38.23 after 460 million shares were sold and turnover exceeded 100%. Facebook actually went significantly lower later in 2012, hitting an all-time low of $17.73 on Sept. 4, 2012.



But it recovered, thanks partly to the company's heavy focus on its mobile platform.



If you invested $10,000 in the company at its IPO, you would have received 263 shares of Facebook common stock. As of May 13, 2022, those shares were selling for $198 apiece, making your investment worth $52,239. In retrospect, that primary market purchase of $38 per share seems like quite a discount.




What Is the Primary Market and Secondary Market?
Both the primary market and the secondary market are aspects of a capitalist financial system, in which money is raised by the buying and selling of securities—financial assets like stocks and bonds. New securities are issued (created) and sold to investors for the first time in the primary market. Thereafter, investors trade these securities on the secondary market.The primary market is also known as the new issues market. The secondary market is what we commonly think of as the stock market or stock exchange.




What Are the Types of Primary Markets?
There's a primary market for just about every sort of financial asset out there. The biggest ones are the primary stock market, the primary bond market, and the primary mortgage market.The most common type of primary market issues include:Initial public offering (IPO): when a company issues shares of stock to the public for the first timeRights issue/offering: an offer to the company’s current stockholders to buy additional new shares at a discount.Private placement: an issue of company stock shares to an individual person, corporate entity, or a small group of investors—usually institutional or accredited ones—as opposed to being issued in the public marketplace.Preferential allotment: shares offered to a particular group at a special or discounted price, different from the publicly traded share price




What Is the Role of the Primary Market?
The primary market is like a debutante ball or a wedding: It marks the launch of a new security—a corporate stock shares or a bond—into the financial marketplace. Primary markets enable companies and governments to attract investors and raise money—to pay debts or to expand. They also enable investors with assets to put their money into, to generate income, or get in on the ground floor of a promising young venture.




What Is the Primary Market and Secondary Market in India?
The primary and secondary markets in India function as they do anywhere:  In the primary market, the investor purchases shares or bonds directly from a company in a one-time transaction; in the Secondary Market, investors buy and sell the stocks and bonds among themselves, and can do so an infinite number of times.In India, when companies wish to go public and establish a primary market for their shares, they must get approval from the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), the equivalent of the SEC in the U.S.The secondary market in India includes the BSE Limited (BSE), and the National Stock Exchange (NSE)—the Subcontinent's two most widely traded exchanges.


   The Bottom Line  

A primary market is a figurative place where securities make their debut—where new bonds and shares of corporate stock are issued to be sold to investors for the first time. They are sold by the companies, governments, or other entities issuing them, often with the help of investment banks, who underwrite the new issues, setting their price and overseeing their launch.



There is a primary market for most types of assets, with equities (stocks) and bonds being the most common. And there are several different types of primary market issues. The most familiar are IPOs. Others include private placements and rights offerings.



Most primary market buyers are institutional investors, though individual investors can get easily get in on certain offerings, like new US Treasury bonds.



After they’ve been issued on the primary market, existing shares of stock, bonds, and other securities are traded between investors on what is called the secondary market—essentially, the familiar stock exchanges and stock markets.
What Is a Prime Brokerage?  

A prime brokerage is a bundled group of services that investment banks and other financial institutions offer to hedge funds and other large investment clients that need to be able to borrow securities or cash in order to engage in netting to achieve absolute returns.



The services provided under prime brokering include securities lending, leveraged trade execution, and cash management, among other things. Prime brokerage services are provided by most of the largest financial services firms, including Goldman Sachs, UBS, and Morgan Stanley, and the inception of units offering such services traces back to the 1980s.





Key Takeaways

Prime brokerage refers to a bundle of services that investment banks and other major financial institutions offer to hedge funds and similar clients.Services included within a prime brokerage bundle may include cash management, securities lending, and more.The services of a prime brokerage aid hedge funds in accessing research, finding new investors, borrowing securities or cash, and more.A prime brokerage service gives large institutions a mechanism allowing them to outsource many of their investment activities and shift focus onto investment goals and strategy.Financial institutions need a minimum account size to be able to transact with prime brokers and all prime brokers have different requirements and fees.


   Understanding a Prime Brokerage  

Prime brokerage services revolve around facilitating the multifaceted and active trading operations of large financial institutions, such as hedge funds. Central to their role, prime brokers allow hedge funds to borrow securities and increase their leverage, while also acting as an intermediary between hedge funds and counterparties such as pension funds and commercial banks.



Prime brokerages, at times referred to as prime brokers, are generally larger financial institutions that have dealings with other large institutions and hedge funds. The majority of large banks have prime brokerage units that service hundreds of clients. Though prime brokerages offer a large variety of services, a client is not required to take part in all of them and can have services performed by other institutions as they see fit.


   Prime Brokerage Services  

A prime brokerage offers a set of services to qualifying clients. The assigned broker, or brokers, may provide settlement agent services along with financing for leverage. Custody of assets may be offered, as well as daily preparations of account statements.



Prime brokers offer a level of resources many institutions may not be able to have in-house. In essence, a prime brokerage service gives large institutions a mechanism allowing them to outsource many of their investment activities and shift focus onto investment goals and strategy.



Concierge-style services may also be offered. These can include risk management, capital introduction, securities financing, and cash financing. Some go as far as to offer the opportunity to sublease office space and provide access to other facility-based benefits. As with more traditional offerings, participation in any of the concierge services is optional.



In cases of securities lending, collateral is often required by the prime brokerage. This allows it to minimize the risk it experiences as well as give it quicker access to funds if needed.


   Requirements for Prime Brokerage Accounts  

The majority of prime brokerage clients are made of large-scale investors and institutions. Money managers and hedge funds often meet the qualifications, as well as arbitrageurs and a variety of other professional investors. In the case of hedge funds, prime brokerage services are often considered significant in determining a fund's success.



Two common types of clients are pension funds, a form of institutional investor, and commercial banks. These forms of investors often deal with a large amount of cash for investment but do not have the internal resources to manage the investments on their own.



The minimum account size to open and obtain prime brokerage account services is $500,000 in equity, however, such an account is unlikely to get many benefits over and above what would be offered by discount brokers.






Some of the largest prime brokers in the U.S. are investment banks, including Bank of America, J.P. Morgan, Goldman Sachs, and Citigroup.



For hedge funds or other institutional clients to get the kind of services that make having a prime brokerage account worthwhile (most notably discounted fees for trading), an account size of $50 million in equity is a likely starting point.



Even so, these services are highly sought after by clients and the best banks only accept the clients that are most likely to be beneficial to them over time. For this reason, a hedge fund would probably need to have as much as $200 million in equity in order to qualify for the best treatment.


   Example of a Prime Brokerage  

Hedge Fund ABC just launched with $75 million that it raised from investors. It is a small hedge fund that employs 15 people. The majority of these individuals are traders, researchers, and a few administrative people. The fund has limited resources that it can allocate to the various needs that are required of the business.



To alleviate some of the burdens, ABC transacts with J.P. Morgan's prime brokerage unit. The two entities sign a prime brokerage agreement detailing that J.P. Morgan will assume the responsibilities of managing ABC's cash management, calculating its net asset value (NAV) on a monthly basis, and performing a risk management analysis on its portfolio. For these services, it is agreed that J.P. Morgan will charge a monthly fee of $20,000.



After six months, ABC has grown and its investment strategy has become more complex. It needs to borrow securities as part of its investment strategy and transacts with J.P. Morgan to provide securities lending services. For this, J.P. charges 5% on the amount of money borrowed. ABC also engages with J.P. for capital introduction services, whereby J.P. introduces ABC to potential investors, charging 2% of the invested amount by each investor.



All of these services that J.P. provides to hedge fund ABC constitute prime brokerage services.


   Prime Brokerage FAQs  
  What Is the Difference Between a Broker and Prime Broker?  

A broker is an individual or entity that facilitates the purchase or sale of securities, such as the buying or selling of stocks and bonds for an investment account. A prime broker is a large institution that provides a multitude of services, from cash management to securities lending to risk management for other large institutions.


  How Much Do Prime Brokers Charge?  

Prime brokers charge different rates for different clients. And each prime broker has its own fees. They also charge different rates depending on the volume of transactions a client does, the number of services a client uses, and so on.


  What Is Margin in Prime Brokerage?  

Margin is when a prime broker lends money to a client so that they can purchase securities. It is also known as margin financing. The prime broker has no risk on the underlying positions, only on the ability of the client to make margin payments. Margin terms are also agreed upon beforehand to determine any lending limits.


  What Is a Prime Brokerage Agreement?  

A prime brokerage agreement is an agreement between a prime broker and its client that stipulates all of the services that the prime broker will be contracted for. It will also lay out all the terms, including fees, minimum account requirements, minimum transaction levels, and any other details needed between the two entities.


  How Does a Prime Brokerage Generate Revenue?  

A prime brokerage generates revenue in a few different ways, which include overall fees, commissions on transactions, and lending charges.


   The Bottom Line  

Prime brokerage is an important service that is provided to large institutions to help them facilitate their business and outsource activities that allow them to focus on their core responsibilities.



Prime brokerage is an important part of the financial sector that creates jobs for thousands of peoples and contributes significantly to the economy. For many large institutions, a prime broker can be a one-stop-shop that makes doing business much easier.
What Is a Prime Cost?  

Prime costs are a firm's expenses directly related to the materials and labor used in production. It refers to a manufactured product's costs, which are calculated to ensure the best profit margin for a company. The prime cost calculates the direct costs of raw materials and labor that are involved in the production of a good. Direct costs do not include indirect expenses, such as advertising and administrative costs.


   What Is the Formula and Calculation of Prime Cost?  

﻿




Prime cost


=


Direct raw materials


+


Direct labor



\text{Prime cost} = \text{Direct raw materials} + \text{Direct labor}


Prime cost=Direct raw materials+Direct labor﻿



Locate the total for the direct raw materials cost on the company's balance sheet.Locate the figure for the direct labor cost on the company's balance sheet.Total or add the two figures of direct raw materials and direct labor costs together.












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou





Key Takeaways

A prime cost is the total direct costs of production, including raw materials and labor.Indirect costs, such as utilities, manager salaries, and delivery costs, are not included in prime costs.Businesses need to calculate the prime cost of each product manufactured to ensure they are generating a profit.By calculating prime cost, businesses have a greater understanding of their profit margin or the lowest price to sell a product.Prime costs do not show the total costs of production, which may be misleading if there are high indirect costs. 


   What Is the Purpose of Prime Costs?  

A prime cost is the total direct costs, which may be fixed or variable, of manufacturing an item for sale. Businesses use prime costs as a way of measuring the total cost of the production inputs needed to create a given output. By analyzing its prime costs, a company can set prices that yield desired profits. By lowering its prime costs, a company can increase its profit or undercut its competitors' prices.



Companies need to calculate the prime cost of each product manufactured to ensure they are generating a profit. Self-employed individuals, such as artisans who create and sell custom-made furniture, often use the prime cost calculation to ensure they are making the hourly wage they desire while also profiting from each product made.



Indirect costs, such as utilities, manager salaries, and delivery costs, are not included in prime costs. One reason why indirect costs are excluded from the prime cost calculation is that they can be difficult to quantify and allocate. 


   Example of How to Use Prime Cost  

Let's say, as an example, a professional woodworker is hired to construct a dining room table for a customer. The prime costs for creating the table include direct labor and raw materials, such as lumber, hardware, and paint. The materials directly contributing to the table's production cost $200. The woodworker charges $50 per hour for labor, and this project takes three hours to complete. The prime cost to produce the table is $350 ($200 for the raw materials + $150 in direct labor). To generate a profit, the table's price should be set above its prime cost.



Consider the same woodworker who constructed and sold a new hand-crafted table for $250. The cost of the raw materials was $200, and it took him three hours to construct. Without regard to labor costs, the woodworker realized a gain of $50. If his direct labor costs were $15 per hour, he realized a modest gain of $5. Therefore, it is especially important for self-employed persons to employ the prime cost method when determining what price to set for their goods and services.



If the same artisan desired a labor wage of $20 per hour and a profit of $100, the prime cost and price would be $260 ($200 for materials and $60 for labor) and $360 (prime cost + desired profit), respectively.


   What Is the Difference Between Prime Costs and Conversion Costs?  

Conversion costs are also used to calculate profitability based on the cost of production, but these include direct labor as well as overhead expenses incurred due to the transformation of raw materials into finished products. Overhead costs are defined as the expenses that cannot be directly attributed to the production process but are necessary for operations, such as electricity or other utilities needed for the manufacturing plant. Direct labor costs are the same as those used in prime cost calculations.



Conversion costs are also used as a measure to gauge the efficiencies in production processes but take into account the overhead expenses left out of prime cost calculations. Operations managers also use conversion costs to determine where there may be waste within the manufacturing process. Conversions costs and prime costs can be used together to help calculate the minimum profit needed when determining prices to charge customers.


   Limitations of Using Prime Cost  

Because prime cost only considers direct costs, it does not capture the total cost of production. As a result, the prime cost calculation can be misleading if indirect costs are relatively large. A company likely incurs several other expenses that would not be included in the calculation of the prime cost, such as manager salaries or expenses for additional supplies needed to keep the factory running. These other expenses are considered manufacturing overhead expenses and are included in the calculation of the conversion cost. The conversion cost takes labor and overhead expenses into account, but not the cost of materials.



A second limitation of prime cost involves the challenges associated with identifying which production costs are indeed direct. There are numerous expenses associated with producing goods for sale. To calculate the prime cost of an item accurately, there must be a clear division between those expenses that can directly link to the production of each unit versus those that are required to run the overall business. The specific expenses included in the prime cost calculation can vary depending on the item being produced.




What Is the Prime Cost Formula?
To calculate the prime cost formula, take the direct raw materials costs and add them to a business's direct labor costs, both found on the balance sheet.




What Is the Difference Between Prime Cost and Overhead Cost?
Prime costs are the direct costs involved in production, including raw materials and labor. By contrast, overhead costs refer to costs that are indirectly related to production, which include electricity, rent, or salaries, among others.




Is Depreciation a Prime Cost?
Depreciation is considered an indirect cost and is typically included in a company’s overhead. For instance, manufacturing overhead may include utility costs or the depreciation expense of factory equipment. 




Is Salary a Direct Expense?
Salary is considered an indirect expense as it is not directly involved in a manufacturer’s production.




Why Is it Called Prime Cost?
The word prime stems from the Latin word  'prôtos', which means first in existence, or the first in order. Just as prime numbers are indivisible, prime costs refer to the direct costs of raw materials and labor that are essential to manufacturing a product.
What Is the Prime Rate?  

The prime rate is the interest rate that commercial banks charge their most creditworthy customers. The Federal Reserve System sets the federal funds overnight rate which serves as the basis for the prime rate, which is the starting point for other interest rates.



The prime rate, which is sometimes simply referred to as prime, is the most commonly used benchmark used by banks and other lenders when setting their interest rates for various products, such as credit cards and home loans.





Key Takeaways

The prime rate is the interest rate that commercial banks charge their most creditworthy corporate customers.Based on the federal funds rate, banks generally use fed funds + 3 to determine the current prime rate.The rates for mortgages, small business loans, and personal loans are based on the prime rate.Lenders generally charge the most creditworthy clients the prime rate while others receive an interest rate based on their credit score of prime, plus another percentage.The most used prime rate is the rate that The Wall Street Journal publishes daily.


   How the Prime Rate Works  

Interest rates are a percentage of the amount that lenders charge on any loans they grant to borrowers. It acts as a form of compensation for the risk that lenders assume based on the borrower’s credit history and other financial details. These rates are normally noted annually as the annual percentage rate (APR).



The prime rate is the interest rate that commercial banks charge their most creditworthy customers, generally large corporations. The prime interest rate, which is also called the prime lending rate, is largely determined by the federal funds rate set by the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC). The fed funds rate is the overnight rate banks use to lend to one another. Banks commonly use a combination of the federal funds rate + 3 to determine the prime rate.



As noted above, lenders charge their most creditworthy clients the prime rate for mortgages, small business loans, or personal loans. For others, the prime rate forms the basis or starting point for most other interest rates.



The interest these borrowers are charged, which is based on their credit scores and credit histories, is normally prime plus a certain percentage. Those who have a good credit score would be charged, say, prime plus 9% for a credit card while those with a lower score may get a rate of prime plus 15%.






The prime rate plus a percentage forms the base of almost all other interest rates.


   Determining the Prime Rate  

The prime rate is an interest rate determined by individual banks and used as a base rate for many types of loans, including loans to small businesses and credit cards. Although the Federal Reserve has no direct role in setting the prime rate for banks, many financial institutions choose to set their prime rates based partly on the target level of the federal funds rate established by the FOMC.



One of the most used prime rates is the one that The Wall Street Journal publishes daily. As noted above, banks generally use fed funds + 3 to determine the current prime rate. The prime rate in the United States is 8.5%, which was set on July 27, 2023, while the fed funds rate was set at a target of between 5.25% and 5.5% on the same day. The prime rate has been increasing since May 2022, approximately the same time that the Fed started increasing the fed funds rate to combat high inflation.



Although other U.S. financial services institutions regularly note any changes that the Fed makes to its prime rate and may use them to justify changes to its prime rates, institutions are not required to raise their prime rates following the Fed.






The prime rate changes daily, in line with other interest rates. A snapshot of the prime rate can be found on the Federal Reserve's website.


   What Is the Impact of the Prime Rate?  

The prime rate affects a variety of bank loans. When the prime rate goes up, so does the cost to access small business loans, lines of credit (LOCs), car loans, mortgages, and credit card interest rates.



Debt with a variable interest rate can be affected by the prime rate because a bank can change your rate. This includes credit cards as well as variable rate mortgages, home equity loans, personal loans, and variable interest rate student loans.



The prime rate is reserved for only the most qualified customers, those who pose the least amount of default risk. Prime rates may not be available to individual borrowers but are offered to larger entities, such as corporations and stable businesses. If the prime rate is set at 5%, a lender still may offer rates below 5% to well-qualified customers. These rates are not considered mandatory minimums.


   How Does the Prime Rate Affect Borrowers?  

The prime rate is not fixed and can change over time based on changes in the federal funds rate, inflation, the demand for loans, and other economic factors. When the prime rate changes, the interest rates on loans and financial products that are based on the prime rate may also change.



The prime rate can affect you in a number of ways, depending on the type of loan or financial product you have.



Home equity loans. If a borrower has a home equity loan or home equity line of credit (HELOC), the interest rate on the loan may be based on the prime rate. If the prime rate increases, the interest rate on the home equity loan may also increase, leading to higher monthly payments for the borrower.
Adjustable-rate mortgages (ARMs). If a borrower has an ARM that is tied to the prime rate, an increase in the prime rate may lead to an increase in the interest rate on the mortgage, resulting in higher monthly payments for the borrower.
Credit card balances. If a borrower has a credit card with a variable interest rate, the interest rate may be based on the prime rate. If the prime rate increases, the interest rate on the credit card may also increase, leading to higher interest charges for the borrower.
Small business loans. If a small business has a loan with an interest rate based on the prime rate, an increase in the prime rate may lead to an increase in the interest rate on the loan, resulting in higher loan payments for the business.


   History of the Prime Rate  

The prime rate has a long history dating back to the 1930s when banks first used it to set the interest rates for short-term lending to their most creditworthy customers following the Great Depression. In the decades following World War II, the prime rate remained relatively stable, hovering around 2% to 3%.



However, the prime rate began to rise significantly in the 1970s as the United States experienced an economic recession and high inflation. The prime rate reached its all-time high of 21.5% in Dec. 1980, as the Federal Reserve sought to curb inflation by raising interest rates.



Over the next few decades, the prime rate fluctuated widely, reflecting the ups and downs of the economy and largely mirroring other benchmark interest rates. During times of economic growth, the prime rate tends to be higher, while it tends to be lower during times of recession or financial turmoil.




How Has the Prime Rate Changed Over Time?
Prime rates fluctuate over time depending on the movement of the federal funds rate, which, in turn, often reflects the state of the economy.The most recent prime rate history has been:07/27/2023: 8.50%05/04/2023: 8.25%03/23/2023: 8.00%02/02/2023: 7.75%12/14/2022: 7.50%11/03/2022: 7.00%9/22/2022: 6.25%7/28/2022: 5.50%6/16/2022: 4.75%5/5/2022: 4.00%3/17/2022: 3.50%3/16/2020: 3.25%




What Is Not Affected by a Change in the Prime Rate?
Any existing loan or line of credit held with a fixed rate is not affected by a change in the prime rate. This may include student loans, fixed-rate mortgages, and savings accounts.




What Does a Change in the Prime Rate Signal?
A change in the prime rate often means that the Federal Reserve has changed its fund rate. For example, an increase to the federal funds rate may be to fight growing inflation and control price growth.




What Was the Highest Prime Rate Ever Recorded?
The highest prime rate ever recorded was 21.5%, which was reached in December 1980. 


   The Bottom Line  

The prime rate is the interest rate that commercial banks charge creditworthy customers and is based on the Federal Reserve's federal funds overnight rate. Banks generally use fed funds + 3 to determine the current prime rate. The rate forms the basis for other interest rates, including rates for mortgages, small business loans, or personal loans.
What Is Principal?  

Principal is the term used to refer to the original sum of money borrowed in a loan or put into an investment. It also is used to refer to the face value of a bond, the owner of a private company, or the chief participant in a transaction.





Key Takeaways

The term “principal” has several meanings in the financial and business world.In the context of borrowing, principal is the initial size of a loan or a bond (the amount that must be repaid , minus interest and fees).In the context of investing, principal is the original sum committed to the purchase of assets (independent of any earnings or interest)In business, principals are those who own a majority stake in a company and/or play a significant role in running it.In contracts and contractural ventures, principals are the chief parties involved in the transaction who have rights, duties, and obligations regarding it.







Principal


   Understanding Principal  

In the context of borrowing, the principal is the initial size of a loan—it can also be the amount still owed on a loan. For example, if you take out a $50,000 mortgage, the principal is $50,000. If you pay off $30,000, the principal balance then consists of the remaining $20,000.



The amount of interest you pay on a loan is determined by the principal. Nearly all loans are amortized, or have the interest frontloaded. When you begin making monthly payments on a loan, most of the payment goes towards interest; the remainder is applied to your principal. As you pay the loan, more of your payments are applied to the principal. Paying down the principal of a loan is the only way to reduce the amount of interest that accrues each month.






A zero-coupon mortgage is a type of financing in which the borrower’s regular payments cover only the interest charged on the loan, as opposed to both interest and principal. As a result, the borrower does not make any progress in reducing the loan’s principal balance—or on building equity in the mortgaged property.


   Types of Principal  

Beyond loan principal, there are four other key types of principal.


  Investing  

The principal is also the original amount of investment made in an asset, separate from any earnings or interest accrued. For example, assume you deposit $5,000 in a high-interest-bearing savings account. If the interest rate were 4.5%, at the end of 10 years, your account balance would have grown to $7,765. The $5,000 you initially deposited is your principal, while the remaining $2,765 is attributed to earnings.









The Various Definitions of Principal


Different Types of Principal
Definition




Loans
The sum of money borrowed 


Investments
The amount of money put into an investment


Bonds
The face value of a bond


Companies
The owner of a private company, partnership, or other type of firm


Transactions
The party that has the power to transact on behalf of an organization or account and takes on the attendant risk, whether it be an individual, a corporation, a partnership, a government agency, or a nonprofit organization.





  Bonds  

In the context of debt instruments, the principal is the amount of money the bond issuer borrows and will repay to the bondholder in full upon the bond's maturity. A bond's principal is also known as its "par value" or "face value" (because, back in the days when bonds were actual physical pieces of paper, this amount was printed on the face of the bond itself).



The bond's principal excludes any coupon, recurring interest payments, or accrued interest (although the issuer is obligated to pay these as well). For instance, a 10-year bond may be issued with a $10,000 face value and have $50 recurring coupon payments semiannually. The principal is $10,000, independent of the $1,000 worth of coupon payments over the bond's life.



Except when it is first issued, a bond's principal is not necessarily the same as its market price. Depending on the state of the bond market, a bond may be purchased for more or less than its principal.


  Private Companies  

The owner of a private company, partnership, or other firm type is also called a “principal.” This is not necessarily the same as a CEO. A principal could be an officer, a shareholder, a board member, or even a key sales employee—basically, it’s the primary investor or the person who owns the largest share of the business.



A company may also have several principals who all have the same equity stake in the concern. Anyone considering investing in a private venture will want to know its principals in order to assess the business’ creditworthiness and potential for growth.


  Responsible Parties  

The term “principal” also refers to the party who has the power to transact on behalf of an organization or account and takes on the attendant risk. A principal can be an individual, a corporation, a partnership, a government agency, or a nonprofit organization. Principals may elect to appoint agents to operate on their behalf.



The transaction a principal is involved in could be anything from a corporate acquisition to a mortgage. The term is usually defined in the transaction’s legal documents. In those documents, the principal is everyone who signed the agreement and thus has rights, duties, and obligations regarding the transaction.



When a person hires a financial advisor, they are considered a principal, while the advisor is the agent. The agent follows instructions given by the principal and may act on their behalf within specified parameters. While the advisor is often bound by fiduciary duty to act in the principal’s best interests, the principal retains the risk for any action or inaction on the part of the agent. If the agent makes a bad investment, the principal still loses the money.


   Special Considerations  

Inflation does not affect the nominal value of the principal of a loan, bond, or other financial instruments. However, inflation does erode the real value of the principal.


  Inflation  

For example, suppose the U.S. government issues $10 million worth of 10-year U.S. Treasury bonds in 2024. Each treasury has a face value, or principal, of $10,000. If the average annual inflation rate over the next 10 years is 4%, then the total real value of those bonds in 2034 is only $6,755,642 (in 2024 dollars).



The principal balance remains $10,000, and that’s the nominal sum bondholders receive. However, the purchasing power of that $10,000 (that is, what it can buy) declined to $6,7556. In other words, the principal could only buy 68% of what it could purchase in 2024.



Bondholders can still recoup their original costs. If there were enough interest income accumulated for the value at maturity plus interest to equal $10,000 in 2024, they would have broken even in purchasing power.


  Tracking Yields  

You can track the amount of return—or yield—you're getting on a bond. There's the bond's nominal yield, which is the interest paid divided by the bond's principal, and its current yield, which equals the annual interest generated by the bond divided by its current market price.




How Do You Find the Principal Amount?
The formula for calculating the principal amount when there is simple interest is P = I / (RT), which is the interest amount divided by the product of the interest rate and the amount of time.




How Does Compounding Grow Your Principal?
The principal amount of an investment can earn interest, but compounding is when the interest you earn is added back to the principal balance. Effectively, you're earning interest on your interest—compounding your return.




What Factors Determine the Interest Charged on Principal?
The interest you will pay on the principal balance of a loan is largely determined by your credit score and credit history. Other factors include the loan type and its term length. For a home loan, the property location, loan amount, and down payment will also be key factors.


   The Bottom Line  

Principal is the term used to refer to the amount you contribute to an investment, an amount loaned to you, or the face value of a bond. It is also used to refer to someone who owns the majority of the shares of a company or the person in a relationship who ultimately retains the risk.
What Is the Principal-Agent Problem?  

The principal-agent problem is a conflict in priorities between a person or group and the representative authorized to act on their behalf. An agent may act in a way that is contrary to the best interests of the principal.



The principal-agent problem is as varied as the possible roles of a principal and agent. It can occur in any situation in which the ownership of an asset, or a principal, delegates direct control over that asset to another party, or agent.





Key Takeaways

The principal-agent problem is a conflict in priorities between the owner of an asset and the person to whom control of the asset has been delegated.The problem can occur in many situations, from the relationship between a client and a lawyer to the relationship between stockholders and a CEO.The risk that the agent will act in a way that is contrary to the principal’s best interest can be defined as agency costs.Resolving a principal-agent problem may require changing the system of rewards in order to align priorities or improving the flow of information, or both.


   Understanding the Principal-Agent Problem  

The principal-agent problem has become a standard factor in political science and economics. The theory was developed in the 1970s by Michael Jensen of Harvard Business School and William Meckling of the University of Rochester. In a paper published in 1976, they outlined a theory of an ownership structure designed to avoid what they defined as agency cost and its cause, which they identified as the separation of ownership and control.



This separation of control occurs when a principal hires an agent. The principal delegates a degree of control and the right to make decisions to the agent. But the principal retains ownership of the assets and the liability for any losses.



For example, a company's stock investors, as part-owners, are principals who rely on the company's chief executive officer (CEO) as their agent to carry out a strategy in their best interests. That is, they want the stock to increase in price or pay a dividend, or both. If the CEO opts instead to plow all the profits into expansion or pay big bonuses to managers, the principals may feel they have been let down by their agent.















Getty Images, Sabrina Jiang.



There are a number of remedies for the principal-agent problem, and many of them involve clarifying expectations and monitoring results. The principal is generally the only party who can or will correct the problem.


   What Causes the Principal-Agent Problem?  
  Agency Costs  

Logically, the principal cannot constantly monitor the agent’s actions. The risk that the agent will shirk a responsibility, make a poor decision, or otherwise act in a way that is contrary to the principal’s best interest can be defined as agency costs. Additional agency costs can be incurred while dealing with problems that arise from an agent's actions. Agency costs are viewed as a part of transaction costs.



Agency costs may also include the expenses of setting up financial or other incentives to encourage the agent to act in a particular way. Principals are willing to bear these additional costs as long as the expected increase in the return on the investment from hiring the agent is greater than the cost of hiring the agent, including the agency costs.


   Solutions to the Principal-Agent Problem  

There are ways to resolve the principal-agent problem. The onus is on the principal to create incentives for the agent to act as the principal wants. Consider the first example, the relationship between shareholders and a CEO.


  Contract Design  

The shareholders can take action before and after hiring a manager to overcome some risks. First, they can write the manager's contract in a way that aligns the incentives of the manager with the incentives of the shareholders. The principals can require the agent to regularly report results to them. They can hire outside monitors or auditors to track information. In the worst case, they can replace the manager.



Designing a contract involves linking the interests of the principal and agent by tackling issues such as misaligned information, setting methods to monitor the agents, and incentivizing the agent to act in the best way possible for the principal.


  Performance Evaluation and Compensation  

Compensation is always a motivating factor and a high priority for an agent. Linking compensation to certain criteria, such as a performance evaluation, can ensure that the agent performs at a high level if their compensation depends on it. This is almost a surefire way to align the interests of both the principal and the agent.



Methods of agent compensation include stock options, deferred-compensation plans, and profit-sharing. In these methods, if the agent performs well, they will see a direct benefit; if they do not, they will be hurt financially.



At its root, it's the same principle as tipping for good service. Theoretically, tipping aligns the interests of the customer-the principal, and the agent- the waiter. Their priorities are now aligned and are focused on good service.


   Examples of the Principal-Agent Problem  

The principal-agent problem can crop up in many day-to-day situations beyond the financial world.



A client who hires a lawyer may worry that the lawyer will wrack up more billable hours than are necessary.
A homeowner may disapprove of the City Council's use of taxpayer funds.
A home buyer may suspect that a realtor is more interested in a commission than in the buyer's concerns.



In all of these cases, the principal has little choice in the matter. An agent is necessary to get the job done.




What Is a Principal-Agent Problem Example?
A common example of the principal-agent problem is that of C-level managers and shareholders. C-level managers may make decisions in their best interest that are not in the best interest of shareholders. This could involve enacting certain policies, making deals with politicians, and so on, that may hurt the company but benefit the manager. Tying the C-level manager's compensation to the performance of the company would be a way to overcome this conflict.




What Causes the Principal-Agent Problem?
The primary cause of the principal-agent problem is agency costs. These costs arise due to the inability of the principal to constantly monitor the work of the agent, which could result in the agent avoiding responsibilities, making poor decisions, or acting in a way contrary to the benefit of the principal.




What Is a Good Way to Overcome the Principal-Agent Problem?
A good way to overcome the principal-agent problem is by aligning the interests of both the principal and the agent and removing any conflict of interest. One of the best ways to do this is by aligning the compensation of the agent to a performance evaluation. If the agent performs well, they will see a direct financial benefit; if they perform poorly, the opposite will be true. Methods to achieve a link between performance and compensation are stock options, deferred-compensation plans, and profit sharing.


   The Bottom Line  

The principal-agent problem is a conflict that arises between an individual or group and the individual charged with representing them, due to agency costs, whereby the agent avoids responsibilities, makes poor decisions, or otherwise engages in actions that work against the benefit of the individual they represent.



To remedy the agent-principal problem, the principal must take action to create an environment or incentives that would motivate the agent to work in the best interest of the principal. When engaging any representative on your behalf, it's important to be aware of the principal-agent problem to ensure you are getting the best service possible.
What Is the Principal-Agent Relationship?  

The principal-agent relationship is an arrangement in which one entity legally appoints another to act on its behalf. In a principal-agent relationship, the agent acts on behalf of the principal and should not have a conflict of interest in carrying out the act. The relationship between the principal and the agent is called the "agency," and the law of agency establishes guidelines for such a relationship.












Investopedia / Joules Garcia





Key Takeaways

A principal appoints an agent to act on their behalf and in their best interest. Examples include an investor picking a fund manager or someone hiring an attorney for legal work. There should be no conflict of interest between the two, if there is, this creates a principal-agent problem. The principal-agent relationship is expressed clearly through a written contract or is implied through actions.


   Understanding a Principal-Agent Relationship  

A principal-agent relationship is often defined in formal terms described in a contract. For example, when an investor buys shares of an index fund, he is the principal, and the fund manager becomes his agent. As an agent, the index fund manager must manage the fund, which consists of many principals' assets, in a way that will maximize returns for a given level of risk in accordance with the fund's prospectus.






Agents have an obligation to perform tasks with a certain level of skill and care and may not intentionally or negligently complete the task in an improper manner.



The principal-agent relationship can be entered into by any willing and able parties for the purpose of any legal transaction. In simple cases, the principal within the relationship is a sole individual who assigns an agent to carry out a task; however, other relationships under this guise have a principal that is a corporation, a nonprofit organization, a government agency or a partnership.



The agent is most often an individual capable of understanding and ultimately carrying out the task assigned by the principal. Common examples of the principal-agent relationship include hiring a contractor to complete a repair on a home, retaining an attorney to perform legal work, or asking an investment advisor to diversify a portfolio of stocks. In each scenario, the principal is the individual seeking out the service or advice of a professional, while the agent is the professional performing the work.


   Special Considerations  

Whether the principal-agent relationship is expressed clearly through a written contract or implied through actions, the principal-agent relationship creates a fiduciary relationship between the parties involved. This means the agent acting on behalf of the principal must carry out the assigned tasks with the principal's best interest as a priority.



The agent is responsible for completing tasks given by the principal so long as the principal provides reasonable instruction. Additionally, the agent has an obligation to perform tasks that will not intentionally harm the principal. A duty of loyalty is also implied within the principal-agent relationship, which requires the agent to refrain from putting himself in a position that creates or encourages conflict between his interest and the interest of the principal, also known as the principal-agent problem.
What Is Principal, Interest, Taxes, Insurance—PITI?  

Principal, interest, taxes, insurance (PITI) are the sum components of a mortgage payment. Specifically, they consist of the principal amount, loan interest, property tax, and the homeowners insurance and private mortgage insurance premiums.



PITI is typically quoted on a monthly basis and is compared to a borrower's monthly gross income for computing the individual's front-end and back-end ratios, which are used to approve mortgage loans. Generally, mortgage lenders prefer the PITI to be equal to or less than 28% of a borrower's gross monthly income.





Key takeaways

PITI is an acronym for principal, interest, taxes, and insurance—the sum components of a mortgage payment.Because PITI represents the total monthly mortgage payment, it helps both the buyer and the lender determine the affordability of an individual mortgage.Generally, mortgage lenders prefer the PITI to be equal to or less than 28% of a borrower's gross monthly income.PITI is also included in calculating a borrower's back-end ratio, the sum total of his monthly obligations against his gross income.


   Understanding Principal, Interest, Taxes, Insurance—PITI  

Let's look at the quartet of components that make up PITI.


  Principal  

A portion of each mortgage payment is dedicated to repayment of the principal—the amount of the loan itself. So, on a $100,000 mortgage, the principal is $100,000. Loans are structured so the amount of principal repaid starts out low, and increases in subsequent years.


  Interest  

Interest is the price you pay for borrowing money (and the lender’s reward for risking its funds on you). Mortgage payments in the early years of the loan are applied more to interest than principal; the ratio gradually shifts as time goes by. If the interest rate on our $100,000 mortgage is 6%, the combined principal and interest monthly payment on a 30-year mortgage would be about $599.55—$500 interest + $99.55 principal.


  Taxes  

Real estate or property taxes are assessed by local governments and used to fund public services such as schools, police forces, and fire departments. Taxes are calculated on a per-year basis, but you can include them as part of your monthly mortgage repayments; the amount due is divided by the total number of mortgage payments in a given year. The lender collects the payments and holds them in escrow until the taxes are due.


  Insurance  

Like real estate taxes, insurance premiums can be paid with each mortgage installment and held in escrow until the bill is due. There are two types of insurance coverage that may be included: homeowners insurance, which protects the home and its contents from fire, theft, and other disasters; and private mortgage insurance (PMI), which is mandatory for people who buy a home with a down payment of less than 20% of the cost.






FHA homeowners loans—mortgages backed by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA)—include a mortgage insurance premium (MIP). MIP is similar to private mortgage insurance, but it requires a large upfront payment, along with the monthly payments.


   PITI's Role in Mortgages  

Because PITI represents the total monthly mortgage payment, it helps both the buyer and the lender determine the affordability of an individual mortgage. A lender will look at an applicant's PITI to determine if they represent a good risk for a home loan. Buyers may tote up their PITI to decide if they can afford to purchase a particular home.



The front-end ratio compares PITI to gross monthly income. Most lenders prefer a front-end ratio of 28% or less, though a few will let borrowers exceed 30%, or even 40%. For example, the front-end ratio of a PITI totaling $1,500 to a gross monthly income of $6,000 is 25%.



The back-end ratio, also known as the debt-to-income ratio (DTI), compares PITI and other monthly debt obligations to gross monthly income. Most lenders prefer a back-end ratio of 36% or less. Suppose the borrower above has two regular monthly obligations: a $400 car payment and a $100 credit card payment; the back-end ratio would be 33% (PITI: $1,500 + $400 +$100 / $6,000 = 33%).



Some lenders also use PITI to calculate reserve requirements a borrower should have. Lenders require reserves to secure mortgage payments in the event a borrower temporarily suffers an income loss. Often, lenders quote reserve requirements as a multiple of PITI. Two months of PITI represents a typical reserve requirement. If subjected to this requirement, the borrower from the above example would need $3,000 in a depository account to be approved for a mortgage.


   Special Considerations  

Not all mortgage payments include taxes and insurance. Some lenders do not require borrowers to escrow these costs as part of their monthly mortgage payment. In these scenarios, the homeowner pays insurance premiums directly to the insurance company and property taxes directly to the tax assessor. The homeowner's mortgage payment, then, consists of only principal and interest.



Even if not escrowed, most lenders still consider the amounts of property taxes and insurance premiums when calculating front-end and back-end ratios. Moreover, additional mortgage-related monthly obligations, such as homeowner's association (HOA) fees, may be included in PITI for the calculation of debt ratios.




Is Property Tax Included in PITI?
It depends. Some mortgage payments don't include taxes and insurance. In this case, the homeowner pays insurance premiums directly to the insurance company and property taxes directly to the tax assessor.




What Does PITI Stand For?
PITI is an acronym for principal, interest, taxes, and insurance—all of the standard components of a mortgage payment. Because PITI represents the total monthly mortgage payment, it helps both the buyer and the lender determine the affordability of an individual mortgage.




What Is Principal and Interest?
Your principal is the money that you originally agreed to pay back. Interest is the cost of borrowing the principal. For example, if the interest rate on a $100,000 mortgage is 6%, the combined principal and interest monthly payment on a 30-year mortgage would be about $599.55—$500 interest + $99.55 principal.




What's the Maximum PITI?
The front-end ratio compares PITI to gross monthly income. Most lenders prefer a front-end ratio of 28% or less, though a few will let borrowers exceed 30%, or even 40%. For example, the front-end ratio of a PITI totaling $1,500 to a gross monthly income of $6,000 is 25%.


   The Bottom Line  

PITI, or principal, interest, taxes, and insurance, refers to all of the normal components of a mortgage payment. Because PITI contains everything that homeowners will typically have to pay toward their mortgage on a monthly basis, it is a useful way of working out whether a person can afford a mortgage.



To make that calculation, a borrower's PITI is compared to their monthly gross income. Generally, mortgage lenders prefer the PITI to be equal to or less than 28% of a borrower's gross monthly income. This indicates that they should be able to afford to repay the mortgage loan they are applying for.
What Is the Prisoner's Dilemma?  

The prisoner's dilemma is a paradox in decision analysis in which two individuals acting in their own self-interests do not produce the optimal outcome.



A prime example of game theory, the prisoner's dilemma was developed in 1950 by RAND Corporation mathematicians Merrill Flood and Melvin Dresher during the Cold War (but later given its name by the game theorist Alvin Tucker). Some have speculated that the prisoner's dilemma was crafted to simulate strategic thinking between the U.S.A. and U.S.S.R. during the Cold War.



Today, the prisoner's dilemma is a paradigmatic example of how strategic thinking between individuals can lead to suboptimal outcomes for both players.





Key Takeaways

A prisoner's dilemma is a situation where individual decision-makers always have an incentive to choose in a way that creates a less than optimal outcome for the individuals as a group.The prisoner's dilemmas occur in many aspects of the economy.In the classic prisoner's dilemma, individuals receive the greatest payoffs if they betray the group rather than cooperate. If games are repeated, it is possible for each player to devise a strategy that rewards cooperation.People have developed many methods of overcoming prisoner's dilemmas to choose better collective results despite apparently unfavorable individual incentives.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   Understanding the Prisoner's Dilemma  

The typical prisoner's dilemma is set up in such a way that both parties choose to protect themselves at the expense of the other participant. As a result, both participants find themselves in a worse state than if they had cooperated with each other in the decision-making process. The prisoner's dilemma is one of the most well-known concepts in modern game theory.



The prisoner’s dilemma presents a situation where two parties, separated and unable to communicate, must each choose between cooperating with the other or not. The highest reward for each party occurs when both parties choose to co-operate.



The classic prisoner’s dilemma goes like this:



Two bank robbers, Elizabeth and Henry, have been arrested and are being interrogated in separate rooms.The authorities have no other witnesses, and can only prove the case against them if they can convince at least one of the robbers to betray their accomplice and testify to the crime.Each bank robber is faced with the choice to cooperate with their accomplice and remain silent or to defect from the gang and testify for the prosecution.If they both co-operate and remain silent, then the authorities will only be able to convict them on a lesser charge resulting in one year in jail for each (1 year for Elizabeth + 1 year for Henry = 2 years total jail time).If one testifies and the other does not, then the one who testifies will go free and the other will get five years (0 years for the one who defects + 5 for the one convicted = 5 years total).However, if both testify against the other, each will get three years in jail for being partly responsible for the robbery (3 years for Elizabeth + 3 years for Henry = 6 years total jail time).



The respective penalties can be expressed visually as follows:










Possible Outcomes of Prisoner's Dilemma


 Outcome
 Henry Cooperates
 Henry Defects




 Elizabeth Cooperates
 (1,1)
 (5,0)


 Elizabeth Defects
 (0,5)
 (3,3)



Penalties for (Elizabeth, Henry)



In this case, each robber always has an incentive to defect, regardless of the choice the other makes. From Elizabeth's point of view, if Henry remains silent, then Elizabeth can either co-operate with Henry and do a year in jail, or defect and go free. Obviously, she would be better off betraying Henry in this case. On the other hand, if Henry defects and testifies against Elizabeth, then her choice becomes either to remain silent and do five years or to talk and do three years in jail. Again, obviously, she would prefer to do the three years over five.



In both cases, whether Henry cooperates with Elizabeth or defects to the prosecution, Elizabeth will be better off if she defects and testifies. Now, since Henry faces the exact same set of choices he also will always be better off defecting as well.



The paradox of the prisoner’s dilemma is this: both robbers can minimize the total jail time that the two of them will do only if they both co-operate and stay silent (two years total), but the incentives that they each face separately will always drive them each to defect and end up doing the maximum total jail time between the two of them of six years total.






The prisoner's dilemma is frequently used in economics or business situations to explain why individual incentives might lead actors to choose a sub-optimal outcome.


   Examples of the Prisoner's Dilemma  

The economy is replete with examples of prisoner’s dilemmas which can have outcomes that are either beneficial or harmful to the economy and society as a whole. The common thread is this: a situation where the incentives faced by each individual decision-maker would induce them each to behave in a way that makes them all collectively worse off, while individually avoiding choices that would make them all collectively better off if all could somehow cooperatively choose. 



One such example is the tragedy of the commons. It may be to everyone’s collective advantage to conserve and reinvest in the propagation of a common pool of natural resources in order to be able to continue consuming it, but each individual always has an incentive to instead consume as much as possible as quickly as possible, which then depletes the resource. Finding some way to co-operate would clearly make everyone better off here.



On the other hand, the behavior of cartels can also be considered a prisoner’s dilemma. All members of a cartel can collectively enrich themselves by restricting output to keep the price that each receives high enough to capture economic rents from consumers, but each cartel member individually has an incentive to cheat on the cartel and increase output to also capture rents away from the other cartel members. In terms of the welfare of the overall society that the cartel operates in, this is an example of how individual incentives can sometimes actually make society better off as a whole. 


   Escape from the Prisoner's Dilemma  

Over time, people have worked out a variety of solutions to prisoner’s dilemmas in order to overcome individual incentives in favor of the common good.



First, in the real world, most economic and other human interactions are repeated more than once. A true prisoner's dilemma is typically played only once or else it is classified as an iterated prisoner's dilemma. In an iterated prisoner’s dilemma, the players can choose strategies that reward cooperation or punish defection over time. By repeatedly interacting with the same individuals we can even deliberately move from a one-time prisoner's dilemma to a repeated prisoner's dilemma.



Second, people have developed formal institutional strategies to alter the incentives that individual decision-makers face. Collective action to enforce cooperative behavior through reputation, rules, laws, democratic or other collective decision-making procedures, and explicit social punishment for defections transforms many prisoner’s dilemmas toward the more collectively beneficial cooperative outcomes.  



Last, some people and groups of people have developed psychological and behavioral biases over time such as higher trust in one another, long-term future orientation in repeated interactions, and inclinations toward positive reciprocity of cooperative behavior or negative reciprocity of defecting behaviors. These tendencies may evolve through a kind of natural selection within a society over time or group selection across different competing societies. In effect, they lead groups of individuals to “irrationally” choose outcomes that are actually the most beneficial to all of them together.



Put together, these three factors (the repeated prisoner’s dilemmas, formal institutions that break down prisoner’s dilemmas, and behavioral biases that undermine “rational” individual choice in prisoner’s dilemmas) help resolve the many prisoner’s dilemmas we would all otherwise face.






In the iterated prisoner's dilemma, it is possible for both players to devise a strategy that punishes betrayal and rewards cooperation. The "tit for tat" strategy has been determined to be the optimal way for optimizing a prisoner's dilemma. Tit for tat was introduced by Anatol Rapoport, who developed a strategy in which each participant in an iterated prisoner's dilemma follows a course of action consistent with their opponent's previous turn. For example, if provoked, a player subsequently responds with retaliation; if unprovoked, the player cooperates.




What Is the Likely Outcome of a Prisoner's Dilemma?
The likely outcome for a prisoner's dilemma is that both players defect (i.e., behave selfishly), leading to suboptimal outcomes for both. This is also the Nash Equilibrium, a decision-making theorem within game theory that states a player can achieve the desired outcome by not deviating from their initial strategy. The Nash equilibrium in this example is for both players to betray one other, even though mutual cooperation leads to a better outcome for both players; however, if one prisoner chooses mutual cooperation and the other does not, one prisoner's outcome is worse.




What Are Some Ways to Combat the Prisoner's Dilemma?
Solutions to prisoner’s dilemmas focus on overcoming individual incentives in favor of the common good. In the real world, most economic and other human interactions are repeated more than once. This allows parties to choose strategies that reward cooperation or punish defection over time.Another solution relies on developing formal institutional strategies to alter the incentives that individual decision-makers face. Finally, behavioral biases will likely develop over time that undermine “rational” individual choice in prisoner’s dilemmas and lead groups of individuals to “irrationally” choose outcomes that are actually the most beneficial to all of them together.




Can the Prisoner's Dilemma Be Useful to Society?
Prisoners' dilemma problems can sometimes actually make society better off as a whole. A prime example is the behavior of an oil cartel. All cartel members can collectively enrich themselves by restricting output to keep the price of oil at a level where each maximizes revenue received from consumers, but each cartel member individually has an incentive to cheat on the cartel and increase output to also capture revenue away from the other cartel members. The end result is not the optimal outcome that the cartel desires but, rather, an outcome that benefits the consumer in terms of lower oil prices.




What Is the Tragedy of the Commons?
The tragedy of the commons is a theoretical problem in economics that proposes every individual has an incentive to consume a resource, but at the expense of every other individual—with no way to exclude anyone from consuming. Generally, the resource of interest is easily available to all individuals without barriers (i.e. the "commons"). This hypothetically leads to over-consumption and ultimately depletion of the common resource, to everybody's detriment. Basically, it highlights the concept of individuals neglecting the well-being of society in the pursuit of personal gain. Its accuracy and application are debated.


   The Bottom Line  

The prisoner's dilemma is a well-known parable for the difficulty of solving collective action problems. By acting in their own self-interests, the metaphorical prisoners find themselves with a greater penalty than they would face if they had worked together. However, when the experiment is repeated over the long term, it is possible for the players to devise incentives for cooperation.



Correction—June 30, 2022: The example of the prisoner's dilemma was edited to demonstrate how following individual interests can lead to the worst possible outcome.
What Is Private Banking?  

Private banking consists of personalized financial services and products offered to the high-net-worth individual (HNWI) clients of a retail bank or other financial institution. It includes a wide range of wealth management services, and all provided under one roof. Services include investing and portfolio management, tax services, insurance, and trust and estate planning.



While private banking is aimed at an exclusive clientele, consumer banks and brokerages of every size offer it. This offering is usually through special departments, dubbed "private banking" or "wealth management" divisions.





Key Takeaways

Private banking is an enhanced offering for the high-net-worth individual (HNWI) clients of a financial institution.Private banking consists of personalized financial and investment services and products from a dedicated personal banker.Private banking clients typically receive discounts or preferential pricing on financial products.However, the range of products and investment expertise offered by a private bank may be limited compared to other providers.


   How Private Banking Works  

Private banking includes common financial services like checking and savings accounts, but with a more personalized approach: A "relationship manager" or "private banker" is assigned to each customer to handle all matters. The private banker handles everything from involved tasks, like arranging a jumbo mortgage, to the mundane like paying bills. However, private banking goes beyond CDs and safe deposit boxes to address a client's entire financial situation. Specialized services include investment strategy and financial planning advice, portfolio management, customized financing options, retirement planning, and passing wealth on to future generations.



While an individual may be able to conduct some private banking with $50,000 or less in investable assets, most financial institutions set a benchmark of six figures' worth of assets, and some exclusive entities only accept clients with at least $1 million to invest.


   Advantages of Private Banking  

Private banking offers clients a variety of perks, privileges, and personalized service, which has become an increasingly prized commodity in an automated, digitized banking world. However, there are advantages to both the private bank clients as well as the banks themselves.


  Privacy  

Privacy is the primary benefit of private banking. Customer dealings and services provided typically remain anonymous. Private banks often provide HNWIs with tailored proprietary solutions, which are kept confidential to prevent competitors from luring a prominent customer with a similar solution.


  Preferential Pricing  

Private banking clients typically receive discounted or preferential pricing on products and services. For example, they may receive special terms or prime interest rates on mortgages, specialized loans, or lines of credit (LOC). Their savings or money market accounts might generate higher interest rates and be free of fees and overdraft charges. Also, customers who operate import-export ventures or do business overseas might receive more favorable foreign exchange rates on their transactions.


  Alternative Investments  

If they are managing a client's investments, private banks often provide the client with extensive resources and opportunities not available to the average retail investor. For example, an HNWI may be given access to an exclusive hedge fund or a private equity partnership or some other alternative investment.


  One-Stop-Shop  

In addition to the customized products, there is the convenience of consolidated services—everything under one financial roof. Private banking clients received enhanced services from their private banker that acts as a liaison with all of the other departments within the bank to ensure that the client receives the best possible product offerings and service.


  Assets and Fees for Banks  

The bank or brokerage firm benefits from having the clients' funds add to their overall assets under management (AUM). Even at discounted rates, the private bank's management fees for portfolio management and interest on loans underwritten can be substantial.



In an environment where interest rates in the U.S. have remained low, banks have been unable to charge higher loan rates to grow their profits. As a result, fee income has become an increasingly important financial metric in helping banks diversify their revenue stream. Banks have made strides in expanding beyond traditional banking products, such as loans and deposits, to more service-oriented and fee-based offerings like private banking.





Pros

One-stop shopping for financial affairs
Concierge services and dedicated employees
Favorable rates, discounted charges
Perks and privileges



Cons

Less institutional expertise
Options limited to proprietary products
High staff turnover
Possible conflict-of-interest for employees





   Disadvantages of Private Banking  

Although there are many advantages to private banking, drawbacks do exist to this exclusivity.


  Bank Employee Turnover  

Employee turnover rates at banks tend to be high, even in the elite private banking divisions. There may also be some concern over conflicts of interest and loyalty: The private banker is compensated by the financial institution, not the client—in contrast to an independent money manager.


  Limited Product Offerings  

In terms of investments, a client might be limited to the bank's proprietary products. Also, while the various legal, tax, and investment services offered by the bank are doubtlessly competent, they may not be as creative or as expert as those offered by other professionals that specialize in various types of investments. For example, small regional banks might provide stellar service that beats out the larger institutions. However, the investment choices at a smaller, regional bank might be far less than a major player such as JPMorgan Chase & Company (JPM).


  Regulatory Constraints for Banks  

Lucrative as private banking can be, it can pose challenges for the institution, as well. Private banks have dealt with a restrictive regulatory environment since the global financial crisis of 2008. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, along with other legislation passed in the U.S. and around the world, has resulted in a higher level of transparency and accountability. There are more stringent licensing requirements for private banking professionals that help ensure customers are appropriately advised about their finances.


   Real World Example of Private Banking  

UBS, Merrill Lynch, Wells Fargo, Morgan Stanley, Citibank, and Credit Suisse are all examples of financial institutions with substantial private banking operations. Another bank that offers private banking is TD Bank (TD), with its TD Wealth® Private Client Group.﻿﻿



Available to clients with at least $750,000 in assets, it offers many services to its clients. Services include money management, strategies for business owners, real estate financing, and custom lending solutions. The private banking team also offers retirement, succession, and estate planning, which help reduce taxes.



The TD website promises that beyond the product offerings, each private client will receive a local relationship manager that will deliver exceptional, customized service as outlined in the quote below.



We build a customized financial strategy that aligns to your individual and/or family goals.
What Is a Private Company?  

A private company is a firm held under private ownership. Private companies may issue stock and have shareholders, but their shares do not trade on public exchanges and are not issued through an initial public offering (IPO). As a result, private firms do not need to meet the Securities and Exchange Commission's (SEC) strict filing requirements for public companies. In general, the shares of these businesses are less liquid, and their valuations are more difficult to determine.





Key Takeaways

A private company is a firm that is privately owned.Private companies may issue stock and have shareholders, but their shares do not trade on public exchanges and are not issued through an IPO.The high costs of an IPO is one reason companies choose to stay private.












Investopedia / Jake Shi


   How a Private Company Works  

Private companies are sometimes referred to as privately held companies. There are four main types of private companies: sole proprietorships, limited liability corporations (LLCs), S corporations (S-corps) and C corporations (C-corps)—all of which have different rules for shareholders, members, and taxation.



All companies in the U.S. start as privately held companies. Private companies range in size and scope, encompassing the millions of individually owned businesses in the U.S. and the dozens of unicorn startups worldwide. Even U.S. firms such as Cargill and Koch Industries, with upwards of $100 billion in annual revenue, fall under the private company umbrella.



Remaining a private company, however, can make raising money more difficult, which is why many large private firms eventually choose to go public through an IPO. While private companies do have access to bank loans and certain types of equity funding, public companies can often sell shares or raise money through bond offerings with more ease.


   Types of Private Companies  

Sole proprietorships put company ownership in the hands of one person. A sole proprietorship is not its own legal entity; its assets, liabilities and all financial obligations fall completely onto the individual owner. While this gives the individual total control over decisions, it also raises risk and makes it harder to raise money. Partnerships are another type of ownership structure for private companies; they share the unlimited liability aspect of sole proprietorships but include at least two owners.



Limited liability companies (LLCs) often have multiple owners who share ownership and liability. This ownership structure merges some of the benefits of partnerships and corporations, including pass-through income taxation and limited liability without having to incorporate.



S corporations and C corporations are similar to public companies with shareholders. However, these types of companies can remain private and do not need to submit quarterly or annual financial reports. S corporations can have no more than 100 shareholders and are not taxed on their profits while C corporations can have an unlimited number of shareholders but are subject to double taxation.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Private Companies  

The high costs of undertaking an IPO is one reason why many smaller companies stay private. Public companies also require more disclosure and must publicly release financial statements and other filings on a regular schedule. These filings include annual reports (10-K), quarterly reports (10-Q), major events (8-K), and proxy statements.



Another reason why companies stay private is to maintain family ownership. Many of the largest private companies today have been owned by the same families for multiple generations, such as the aforementioned Koch Industries, which has remained in the Koch family since its founding in 1940. Staying private means a company does not have to answer to its public shareholders or choose different members for the board of directors. Some family-owned companies have gone public, and many maintain family ownership and control through a dual-class share structure, meaning family-owned shares can have more voting rights.



Going public is a final step for private companies. An IPO costs money and takes time for the company to set up. Fees associated with going public include an SEC registration fee, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) filing fee, a stock exchange listing fee and money paid to the underwriters of the offering.
What Is Private Equity?  

Private equity describes investment partnerships that buy and manage companies before selling them. Private equity firms operate these investment funds on behalf of institutional and accredited investors.



Private equity funds may acquire private companies or public ones in their entirety, or invest in such buyouts as part of a consortium. They typically do not hold stakes in companies that remain listed on a stock exchange.



Private equity is often grouped with venture capital and hedge funds as an alternative investment. Investors in this asset class are usually required to commit significant capital for years, which is why access to such investments is limited to institutions and individuals with high net worth.





Key Takeaways

Private equity firms buy companies and overhaul them to earn a profit when the business is sold again.Capital for the acquisitions comes from outside investors in the private equity funds the firms establish and manage, usually supplemented by debt.The private equity industry has grown rapidly; it tends to be most popular when stock prices are high and interest rates low. An acquisition by private equity can make a company more competitive or saddle it with unsustainable debt, depending on the private equity firm's skills and objectives. 


   Understanding Private Equity  

In contrast with venture capital, most private equity firms and funds invest in mature companies rather than startups. They manage their portfolio companies to increase their worth or to extract value before exiting the investment years later.



The private equity industry has grown rapidly amid increased allocations to alternative investments and following private equity funds' relatively strong returns since 2000. In 2021, private equity buyouts totaled a record $1.1 trillion, doubling from 2020. Private equity investing tends to grow more lucrative and popular during periods when stock markets are riding high and interest rates are low and less so when those cyclical factors turn less favorable.



Private equity firms raise client capital to launch private equity funds, and operate them as general partners, managing fund investments in exchange for fees and a share of profits above a preset minimum known as the hurdle rate.












Image by Sabrina Jiang Â© Investopedia 2020



Private equity funds have a finite term of 7 to 10 years, and the money invested in them isn't available for subsequent withdrawals. The funds do typically start to distribute profits to their investors after a number of years. The average holding period for a private equity portfolio company was about five years in 2021.



Several of the largest private equity firms are now publicly listed companies in the wake of the landmark initial public offering (IPO) by Blackstone Group Inc. (BX) in 2007. In addition to Blackstone, KKR & Co. Inc. (KKR), Carlyle Group Inc. (CG), and Apollo Global Management Inc. (APO) all have shares traded on U.S. exchanges. A number of smaller private equity firms have also gone public via IPOs, primarily in Europe.












Mira Norian / Investopedia


   Private Equity Specialties  

Some private equity firms and funds specialize in a particular category of private-equity deals. While venture capital is often listed as a subset of private equity, its distinct function and skillset set it apart, and have given rise to dedicated venture capital firms that dominate their sector. Other private equity specialties include:



Distressed investing, specializing in struggling companies with critical financing needs
Growth equity, funding expanding companies beyond their startup phase
Sector specialists, with some private equity firms focusing solely on technology or energy deals, for example
Secondary buyouts, involving the sale of a company owned by one private-equity firm to another such firm
Carve-outs involving the purchase of corporate subsidiaries or units.


   Private Equity Deal Types  

The deals private equity firms make to buy and sell their portfolio companies can be divided into categories according to their circumstances.



The buyout remains a staple of private equity deals, involving the acquisition of an entire company, whether public, closely held or privately owned. Private equity investors acquiring an underperforming public company will often seek to cut costs, and may restructure its operations.



Another type of private equity acquisition is the carve-out, in which private equity investors buy a division of a larger company, typically a non-core business put up for sale by its parent corporation. Examples include Carlyle's acquisition of Tyco Fire & Security Services Korea Co. Ltd. from Tyco International Ltd. in 2014, and Francisco Partners' deal to acquire corporate training platform Litmos from German software giant SAP SE (SAP), announced in August 2022. Carve-outs tend to fetch lower valuation multiples than other private equity acquisitions, but can be more complex and riskier.



In a secondary buyout, a private equity firm buys a company from another private equity group rather than a listed company. Such deals were assumed to constitute a distress sale but have become more common amid increased specialization by private equity firms. For instance, one firm might buy a company to cut costs before selling it to another PE partnership seeking a platform for acquiring complementary businesses.



Other exit strategies for a private-equity investment include the sale of a portfolio company to one of its competitors as well as its IPO.


   How Private Equity Creates Value  

By the time a private equity firm acquires a company, it will already have a plan in place to increase the investment's worth. That could include dramatic cost cuts or a restructuring, steps the company's incumbent management may have been reluctant to take. Private equity owners with a limited time to add value before exiting an investment have more of an incentive to make major changes.



The private equity firm may also have special expertise the company's prior management lacked. It may help the company develop an e-commerce strategy, adopt new technology, or enter additional markets. A private-equity firm acquiring a company may bring in its own management team to pursue such initiatives or retain prior managers to execute an agreed-upon plan.



The acquired company can make operational and financial changes without the pressure of having to meet analysts' earnings estimates or to please its public shareholders every quarter. Ownership by private equity may allow management to take a longer-term view, unless that conflicts with the new owners' goal of making the biggest possible return on investment.


  Making Money the Old-Fashioned Way With Debt  

Industry surveys suggest operational improvements have become private equity managers' main focus and source of added value.



But debt remains an important contributor to private equity returns, even as the increase in fundraising has made leverage less essential. Debt used to finance an acquisition reduces the size of the equity commitment and increases the potential return on that investment accordingly, albeit with increased risk.



Private equity managers can also cause the acquired company to take on more debt to accelerate their returns through a dividend recapitalization, which funds a dividend distribution to the private equity owners with borrowed money.



Dividend recaps are controversial because they allow a private equity firm to extract value quickly while saddling the portfolio company with extra debt. On the other hand, the increased debt presumably lowers the company's valuation when it is sold again, while lenders must agree with the owners that the company will be able to manage the resulting debt load.


   Why Private Equity Draws Criticism  

Private equity firms have pushed back against the stereotype depicting them as strip miners of corporate assets, stressing their management expertise and examples of successful transformations of portfolio companies.



Many are touting their commitment to environmental, social, and governance (ESG) standards directing companies to mind the interests of stakeholders other than their owners.



Still, rapid changes that often follow a private equity buyout can often be difficult for a company's employees and the communities where it has operations.



Another frequent focus of controversy is the carried interest provision allowing private equity managers to be taxed at the lower capital gains tax rate on the bulk of their compensation. Legislative attempts to tax that compensation as income have met with repeated defeat, notably when this change was dropped from the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022.




How Are Private Equity Funds Managed?
A private equity fund is managed by a general partner (GP), typically the private equity firm that established the fund. The GP makes all of the fund's management decisions. It also contributes 1% to 3% of the fund's capital to ensure it has skin in the game. In return, the GP earns a management fee often set at 2% of fund assets, and may be entitled to 20% of fund profits above a preset minimum as incentive compensation, known in private equity jargon as carried interest. Limited partners are clients of the private equity firm that invest in its fund; they have limited liability.




What Is the History of Private Equity Investments?
In 1901, J.P. Morgan bought Carnegie Steel Corp. for $480 million and merged it with Federal Steel Company and National Tube to create U.S. Steel in one of the earliest corporate buyouts and one of the largest relative to the size of the market and the economy. In 1919, Henry Ford used mostly borrowed money to buy out his partners, who had sued when he slashed dividends to build a new auto plant. In 1989, KKR engineered what is still the largest leveraged buyout in history after adjusting for inflation, buying RJR Nabisco for $25 billion.




Are Private Equity Firms Regulated?
While private equity funds are exempt from regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Investment Company Act of 1940 or the Securities Act of 1933, their managers remain subject to the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 as well as the anti-fraud provisions of federal securities laws. In February 2022, the SEC proposed extensive new reporting and client disclosure requirements for private fund advisers including private equity fund managers. The new rules would require private fund advisers registered with the SEC to provide clients with quarterly statements detailing fund performance, fees, and expenses, and to obtain annual fund audits. All fund advisors would be barred from providing preferential terms for one client in an investment vehicle without disclosing this to the other investors in the same fund.


   The Bottom Line  

For a large enough company, no form of ownership is free of the conflicts of interests arising from the agency problem. Like managers of public companies, private equity firms can at times pursue self-interest at odds with those of other stakeholders, including limited partners. Still, most private equity deals create value for the funds' investors, and many of them improve the acquired company. In a market economy, the owners of the company are entitled to choose the capital structure that works best for them, subject to sensible regulation.
What Is Private Equity Real Estate?  

Private equity real estate is an alternative asset class composed of professionally managed pooled private and public investments in the real estate markets. Investing in private equity real estate involves the acquisition, financing, and ownership (either direct or indirect) of property or properties via an investment fund.



Private equity real estate should not be confused with an equity real estate investment trust, or equity REIT, which are publicly-traded shares representing real estate investments whose revenues are mainly generated through rental incomes on their real estate holdings.





Key Takeaways

Private equity real estate is a professionally managed fund that invests in real estate.Unlike REITs, private equity real estate investing requires a substantial amount of capital and may only be available to high-net-worth or accredited investors.This type of investment is often riskier and costlier than other forms of real estate investment funds, but returns of 8% to 10% are not uncommon.


   Understanding Private Equity Real Estate  

Private equity real estate funds allow high-net-worth individuals (HWNIs) and institutions such as endowments and pension funds to invest in equity and debt holdings related to real estate assets.



Using an active management strategy, private equity real estate takes a diversified approach to property ownership. General partners (GPs) invest in a variety of property types in different locations, which can range from new development and raw land holdings to complete redevelopment of existing properties, or cash flow injections into struggling properties.



Private equity real estate investments are commonly pooled and can be structured as limited partnerships (LPs), limited liability companies (LLCs), S-corps, C-corps, collective investment trusts, private REITs, separate insurer accounts, or other legal structures.


   Special Considerations  

Investing in private equity real estate requires an investor with a long-term outlook and a significant upfront capital commitment—over $250,000 initially and follow-on investments over time. Little flexibility and liquidity are offered to investors since the capital commitment window typically requires several years.



Lock-up periods for private equity real estate can sometimes last for more than a dozen or more years. Also, distributions can be slow because they are often paid from cash flow rather than outright liquidation—investors have no right to demand a liquidation. Moreover, fund managers typically charge a 2-and-20 fee structure, costing investors 2% of invested assets per year plus 20% of profits.



The following category of investor invests in private equity real estate:



Institutions (pension funds and nonprofit funds) and third parties, such as asset managers investing on behalf of institutions
Private accredited investors
High-net-worth individuals (HWNIs)



Funds created for individual investors generally require that the investment be funded at the time of the signing of the investment agreement, whereas funds created for institutional investors require a capital commitment. That capital is then drawn down as suitable investments are made. If no investments are made during the investment period specified by the agreement, nothing can be drawn from the commitment. 






Private equity real estate investing is risky, but it can also provide high returns.


   Private Equity Real Estate Returns  

Despite the lack of flexibility and liquidity, this type of investment can provide high potential levels of income with strong price appreciation. Annual returns in the 6% to 8% range for core strategies and 8% to 10% for core-plus strategies are not uncommon.



Returns for value-added or opportunistic strategies can be considerably higher. That said, private equity real estate is risky enough that investors can lose their entire investment if a fund underperforms.






Private equity real estate funds became popular in the 1990s amid falling property prices as a way to scoop up properties as values fell. Previously, most institutional real estate investing adhered to core assets.


   Types of Private Equity Real Estate Investments  

Office buildings (high-rise, urban, suburban, and garden offices); industrial properties (warehouse, research and development, flexible offices, or industrial space); retail properties, shopping centers (neighborhood, community, and power centers); and multifamily apartments (garden and high-rise) are the most common private equity real estate investments.



There are also niche property investments such as senior or student housing, hotels, self-storage, medical offices, single-family housing to own or rent, undeveloped land, manufacturing space, and more.
What Is a Private Finance Initiative (PFI)?  

A private finance initiative (PFI) is a way of financing public-sector projects through the private sector. PFIs alleviate the government and taxpayers of the immediate burden of coming up with the capital for these projects.



Under a private finance initiative, a private company handles the up-front costs instead of the government. In return, the government authority makes payments to the private company over the long term.



The term “private finance initiative” is used primarily in the United Kingdom and Australia. In the United States, PFIs are typically called public-private partnerships (PPPs).





Key Takeaways

A private finance initiative (PFI) is a way for the public sector to finance big public-works projects through the private sector.PFIs take the burden off governments and taxpayers in terms of raising capital for the projects.Governments repay private firms over the long term.


   How Private Finance Initiatives (PFIs) Work  

Private finance initiatives are used to fund major public works. Many are infrastructure projects that benefit the public sector. These include highways and roadways, and transport projects such as railroads, airports, bridges, and tunnels. Private-sector firms may also be contracted to construct water and wastewater facilities, prisons, public schools, arenas, and sports facilities.



Instead of funding these projects up front from taxpayers, private firms are hired to finance, manage, and complete the projects. The private firms typically make their money back through long-term repayments from the government or revenue generated from the project—for example, highway tolls. Under this arrangement, the government does not have to lay out a large sum of money at once to fund a major project.



Depending on the type of project, PFI contracts typically last 20 to 30 years. They can run longer or shorter depending on the project.






The public-sector partner is responsible for clearly defining the objectives of the project and making sure that the private-sector partner complies with the terms of the partnership.


   Real-World Example of a Private Finance Initiative  

In 2020, the U.S. government engaged in public-private partnerships in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. It partnered with private vaccine developers such as Pfizer, BioNTech, and Moderna. The end result was launching effective vaccines in less than a year.



Public-private partnerships were also responsible for innovations in COVID-19 testing, treatment options, and vaccine distribution throughout the country.


   Advantages of Private Finance Initiatives  

Governments have traditionally had to raise money on their own to fund public infrastructure projects. If they aren’t able to find the money, governments may also borrow from the bond market, then hire and pay contractors to complete the job. This can often be very cumbersome, which is where the PFI comes in.



PFIs are intended to improve on-time project completion and transfer some of the risks associated with constructing and maintaining these projects from the public sector to the private sector.



PFIs also improve the relationship between the public and private sectors, while providing both with long-term advantages. Through this relationship, both sectors can share knowledge and resources.






Financial advisors, such as investment banks, help manage the bidding, negotiating, and financing of a PFI.


   Disadvantages of Private Finance Initiatives  

A key drawback of private finance initiatives is that since the repayment terms typically include payments plus interest, the burden may end up being transferred to future taxpayers. In addition, the arrangements sometimes include not only construction but also ongoing maintenance once the projects are complete, which further increases a project’s future cost and tax burden.



There is also a risk that private-sector firms may not comply with relevant safety or quality standards when managing a project.



In addition, terminating a PFI contract before it ends can be highly complex, as most projects are not able to secure private financing without assurances that the financing of the project will be repaid in the case of termination. In most termination cases, the public sector is required to repay the debt and take ownership of the project. In practice, termination is considered only as a last resort.


   Criticism of PFIs in the U.K.  

Private finance initiatives were first implemented in the United Kingdom in 1992 and became more popular after 1997. In the 2000s, controversy surrounding PFIs revealed that the government was spending significantly more on these projects than they were worth to the benefit of the private firms running them and to the taxpayers’ detriment. In addition, PFIs have been criticized by some as an accounting gimmick to reduce the appearance of public-sector borrowing.




What are examples of private finance initiative (PFI) projects?
Private finance initiatives (PFIs) typically include major government projects such as highways, public transport, airports, bridges, and tunnels. Other examples of private finance initiatives include hospitals, arenas, prisons, and public schools.




What are the benefits of private finance initiatives?
One of the main benefits of private finance initiatives is alleviating the immediate financial burden on a government and taxpayers to finance major public-sector projects. PFIs can also transfer some of the risks associated with a project from the public sector to the private sector.




How long do private finance initiative projects last?
Private finance initiative projects usually take decades to complete. Contracts typically last 20 to 30 years.


   The Bottom Line  

Private finance initiatives (PFIs) allow governments and the private sector to join forces to finance and implement projects that benefit the public sector. While PFIs have some potential downsides, governments around the world have used them for decades to finance a wide variety of projects, ranging from highways to hospitals. Referred to as public-private partnerships (PPPs) in the United States, such partnerships were instrumental in developing COVID-19 vaccines.
What is a Private Good?  

A private good is a product that must be purchased to be consumed, and consumption by one individual prevents another individual from consuming it. In other words, a good is considered to be a private good if there is competition between individuals to obtain the good and if consuming the good prevents someone else from consuming it.



Economists refer to private goods as rivalrous and excludable, and can be contrasted with public goods.





Key Takeaways

Private goods are those whose ownership is restricted to the group or individual that purchased the good for their own consumption.A private good is not shared with anybody else, but can be sold along with transferring rights to use or consume it.Private goods are different from public goods, which are available to everyone regardless of income levels.


   Understanding Private Goods  

We encounter private goods every day. Examples include a dinner at a restaurant, a grocery shopping, airplane rides, and cellphones. A private good is thus any item that can only be used or consumed by one party at a time. Many tangible home goods qualify, as they can only be used by those who have access to them. Any item that is effectively destroyed or rendered unusable for its original purpose through use, such as food and toilet paper, are also private goods.



Often, private goods have finite availability, making them excludable in nature by preventing others access to it. For example, only a certain number of a certain pair of designer shoes are produced, so not everyone can have those shoes even if they wish to purchase them. Not only is a single pair seen as a private good, but the entire product line can be classified as such.



The majority of private goods must be purchased for a cost. This cost offsets the fact that the use of the good by one prevents the use of the good by another. Purchasing the item secures the right to consume it and compensates the producer for the costs involved in making it.


   Private vs. Public Goods  

A private good is the opposite of a public good. Public goods are generally open for all to use and consumption by one party does not deter another party's ability to use it. It is also not excludable; preventing the use of the good by another is not possible. Many public goods can be consumed at no cost.



Water fountains in public places would qualify as public goods, since they can be used by anyone and there is no reasonable possibility of it becoming fully used up. Public television received over the air and standard AM or FM local radio also qualify, as any number of people can watch of listen to the broadcast without affecting other people's ability to do so.



Private goods are less likely to experience the free rider problem because a private good has to be purchased; it is not readily available for free. A company's goal in producing a private good is to make a profit. Without the incentive created by revenue, a company is unlikely to want to produce the good. Meanwhile, public goods may be subject to the tragedy of the commons problem.



.
What is a Private Investment Fund?  

A private investment fund is an investment company that does not solicit capital from retail investors or the general public. Members of a private investment company typically have deep knowledge of the industry as well as investments elsewhere. To be classified as a private fund, a fund must meet one of the exemptions outlined in the Investment Company Act of 1940. The 3C1 or 3C7 exemptions within the Act are frequently used to establish a fund as a private investment fund. There is an advantage to maintaining private investment fund status, as the regulatory and legal requirements are much lower than what is required for funds that are traded publicly.





Key Takeaways

Private investment funds are those which do not solicit public investment.Private funds are classified as such according to exemptions found in the Investment Company Act of 1940.Hedge funds and private equity funds are two of the most common types of private investment funds.


   Understanding a Private Investment Fund  

Private funds are expected to meet certain criteria to keep their status. Generally, the requirements limit both the number and type of investors that can own shares in the fund. In the U.S., under the aforementioned Investment Company Act of 1940, a 3C1 fund can have up to 100 accredited investors, and a 3C7 fund can have a soft limit of around 2,000 qualified investors. Both the definition of qualified and accredited investor come with individual wealth tests. Accredited investors need to have more than $1 million in net worth without counting their primary residence and/or $200,000 in annual income for an individual and $300,000 for a couple. Qualified investors have to hold assets in excess of $5 million.


   Why Funds Stay Private  

A private investment fund may choose to stay private for a number of reasons. As mentioned, the regulations around private investment funds are much looser than for public funds. Private investment funds enjoy more freedom in how they handle everything from reporting to redemptions. This allows private investment funds to look at illiquid investments that a public fund would shun due to the difficulties of regular valuation and liquidation in the case of rising redemptions. Many hedge funds are private investment funds so they can continue to use aggressive trading strategies that the manager of a public fund would avoid due to the potential for investor lawsuits resulting from unreasonable risk-taking. Most importantly, there is no public reporting of positions for private investment funds, which allows them to avoid tipping their hand to the market and eroding the profitability of a stealthily built position.



In addition to investment flexibility, private investment funds can be vehicles of choice for handling significant family wealth. Extremely wealthy families can create private investment funds to invest the wealth with the family members as shareholders. Often a company serves as the initial structure for this arrangement, and it is repurposed to create a capital investment arm from the profits of the business. In this case, the family doesn't want or need outside capital, so there is no incentive to take the fund public.
What Is a Private Investment in Public Equity (PIPE)?  

Private investment in public equity (PIPE) is the buying of shares of publicly traded stock at a price below the current market value (CMV) per share. This buying method is a practice of investment firms, mutual funds, and other large, accredited investors. A traditional PIPE is one in which common or preferred stock is issued at a set price to the investor, while a structured PIPE issues common or preferred shares of convertible debt.



The purpose of a PIPE is for the issuer of the stock to raise capital for the public company. This financing technique is more efficient than secondary offerings due to fewer regulatory issues with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).





Key Takeaways

Private investment in public equity (PIPE) is when an institutional or an accredited investor buys stock directly from a public company below market price.Because they have less stringent regulatory requirements than public offerings, PIPEs save companies time and money and raise funds more quickly.The discounted price of PIPE shares means less capital for the company, and their issuance effectively dilutes the current stockholders' stake.


   How a Private Investment in Public Equity Works  

A publicly-traded company may utilize a PIPE when securing funds for working capital to fund day-to-day operations, expansion, or acquisitions. The company may create new stock shares or use some from its supply, but the equities never go on sale on a stock exchange.



Instead, these large investors purchase the company's stock in a private placement, and the issuer files a resale registration statement with the SEC.



The issuing business typically obtains its funding—that is, the investors' money for the shares—within two to three weeks, rather than waiting several months or longer, as it would with a secondary stock offering. Registration of the new shares with the SEC typically becomes effective within a month of filing.


   Special Considerations for PIPE Buyers  

PIPE investors may purchase stock below the market price as a hedge of protection against the share price going down after news of the PIPE gets out. The discount also acts as compensation for a certain lack of liquidity in the shares, meaning there can be delays in selling or converting the shares to cash.



Since this offering was a PIPE, the buyers cannot sell their shares until the company files its resale registration statement with the SEC. However, an issuer generally cannot sell more than 20% of its outstanding stock at a discount without receiving prior approval from current shareholders.



A traditional PIPE agreement lets investors purchase common stock or preferred stock that is convertible to common shares at a predetermined price or exchange rate. If the business is merged with another or sold soon, investors may be able to receive dividends or other payoffs. Dividends are cash or stock payments from companies to their shareholders or investors. Because of these benefits, traditional PIPEs are typically priced at or near the stock’s market value.



With a structured PIPE, preferred stock or debt securities convertible to common stock are sold. If the securities contain a reset clause, new investors are shielded from downside risks, but existing stockholders are exposed to the greater risk of dilution in share values. For this reason, a structured PIPE transaction may need prior stockholder approval.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of PIPEs  

Private investment in public equity carries several advantages for issuers. Large amounts of shares are typically sold to knowledgeable investors over the long term, ensuring the company secures the funding it needs. PIPEs can be particularly advantageous for small-to-medium-sized public companies that may have a hard time accessing more traditional forms of equity financing.



Because PIPE shares do not need to be registered in advance with the SEC or meet all the usual federal registration requirements for public stock offerings, transactions proceed more efficiently with fewer administrative requirements.



However, on the downside, investors may sell their stock in a short amount of time, driving down the market price. If the market price drops below a set threshold, the company may have to issue additional stock at a significantly reduced price. This new share issue dilutes the value of shareholders’ investments, which can lead to a lower stock price.



Short sellers may take advantage of the situation by repeatedly selling their shares and lowering the share price, potentially resulting in PIPE investors having majority ownership of the company. Setting a minimum share price below which no compensatory stock is issued can avoid this problem.





Pros

Fast source of capital funds
Less paperwork and filing requirements
Lower transactional costs
Discounted share prices (for investors)



Cons

Diluted share value (for current stockholders)
Buyers limited to accredited investors
Discounted share price (less capital for company)
Potential need for shareholder approval





   Real-World Example of a PIPE  

In February 2018, Yum! Brands(YUM), the owner of Taco Bell and KFC, announced it was purchasing $200 million of takeout company GrubHub's stock through a PIPE. In this case, Yum! drove the PIPE to forge a stronger partnership between the two companies to increase sales at its restaurants through pickups and delivery.



The added liquidity allowed GrubHub to grow its U.S. delivery network and to create a more seamless ordering experience for customers of both companies. GrubHub also expanded its board of directors from nine to 10, adding a representative from Yum!
What Is a Private Placement?  

A private placement is a sale of stock shares or bonds to pre-selected investors and institutions rather than publicly on the open market. It is an alternative to an initial public offering (IPO) for a company seeking to raise capital for expansion. Private placements are regulated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission under Regulation D.



Investors invited to participate in private placement programs include wealthy individual investors, banks and other financial institutions, mutual funds, insurance companies, and pension funds.



One advantage of a private placement is its relatively few regulatory requirements.





Key Takeaways

A private placement is a sale of securities to a pre-selected number of individuals and institutions.Private placements are relatively unregulated compared to sales of securities on the open market.Private sales are now common for startups as they allow the company to obtain the money they need to grow while delaying or forgoing an IPO.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding Private Placements  

Private placements have become a common way for startups to raise financing, particularly those in the Internet and financial technology sectors. They allow these companies to grow and develop while avoiding the full glare of public scrutiny that accompanies an IPO.



There are minimal regulatory requirements and standards for a private placement even though, like an IPO, it involves the sale of securities. The sale does not even have to be registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The company is not required to provide a prospectus to potential investors and detailed financial information may not be disclosed.



The sale of stock on public exchanges is regulated by the Securities Act of 1933, which was enacted after the market crash of 1929 to ensure that investors receive sufficient disclosure when they purchase securities. Regulation D of that act provides a registration exemption for private placement offerings.



The same regulation allows an issuer to sell securities to a pre-selected group of investors that meet specified requirements. Instead of a prospectus, private placements are sold using a private placement memorandum (PPM) and cannot be broadly marketed to the general public.



It specifies that only accredited investors may participate. These may include individuals or entities such as venture capital firms that qualify under the SEC’s terms.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Private Placements  
  Advantage: A Speedier Process  

Above all, a young company can remain a private entity, avoiding the many regulations and annual disclosure requirements that follow an IPO. The light regulation of private placements allows the company to avoid the time and expense of registering with the SEC.



That means the process of underwriting is faster, and the company gets its funding sooner. If the issuer is selling a bond, it also avoids the time and expense of obtaining a credit rating from a bond agency.



A private placement allows the issuer to sell a more complex security to accredited investors who understand the potential risks and rewards.


  Disadvantage: A More Demanding Buyer  

The buyer of a private placement bond issue expects a higher rate of interest than can be earned on a publicly-traded security. Because of the additional risk of not obtaining a credit rating, a private placement buyer may not buy a bond unless it is secured by specific collateral.



A private placement stock investor may also demand a higher percentage of ownership in the business or a fixed dividend payment per share of stock. This puts pressure on the company to perform at a higher level, which could lead it to ignore the careful process of healthy growth. Additionally, there could be a loss of control if private placements result in increased ownership from investors.




How Does a Private Placement Work?
Private placements are the sale of a company's shares to a number of pre-selected investors. The process takes place privately, hence the name, meaning that a company does not have to go through the regulatory hurdles of an IPO and being a public company but is still able to raise external funds to expand the business.




What Is the Difference Between a PO and an IPO?
An IPO is an initial public offering; when a company sells shares publicly for the first time. A PO is a public offering; when a company sells shares publicly again after its IPO. A company can only have one IPO but many POs.




Why Do Companies Go for Private Placements?
There are many benefits that would make a company choose a private placement. These include a faster process to selling shares than an IPO, having to meet fewer regulatory requirements than an IPO would require, having to meet fewer regulatory obligations on an ongoing basis than being public would require, and the ability to retain more control of the company.


   The Bottom Line  

Private placements allow business owners to raise capital by foregoing the IPO process, which is often long, difficult, and burdensome. By opening their doors to pre-selected investors through private placements, businesses can raise funds for expansion while not having to abide by the many regulatory requirements that an IPO and being public demand. Though it comes with benefits, there are downsides, with demanding investors seeking high returns for the increased risk they take on through private placements.
What is the Private Sector?  

The private sector is the part of the economy that is run by individuals and companies for profit and is not state controlled. Therefore, it encompasses all for-profit businesses that are not owned or operated by the government. Companies and corporations that are government run are part of what is known as the public sector, while charities and other nonprofit organizations are part of the voluntary sector.





Key Takeaways

The private sector consists of all privately owner, for-profit businesses in the economy. The private sector tends to make up a larger share of the economy in free market, capitalist based societies. Private sector businesses can also collaborate with government run agencies in arrangements called public-private partnerships.












Investopedia / Joules Garcia


   Understanding the Private Sector  

The private sector is the segment of a national economy that is owned, controlled, and managed by private individuals or enterprises. The private sector has a goal of making money and employs more workers than the public sector. A private sector organization is created by forming a new enterprise or privatizing a public sector organization. A large private sector corporation may be privately or publicly traded. Businesses in the private sector drive down prices for goods and services while competing for consumers’ money; in theory, customers do not want to pay more for something when they can buy the same item elsewhere at a lower cost.



In most free economies, the private sector makes up a big portion of the economy, as opposed to nations that have more state control over their economies, which have a larger public sector. For example, the United States has a strong private sector because it has a free economy, while China, where the state controls many of its corporations, has a larger public sector.


   Types of Private Sector Businesses   

The private sector is a very diverse sector and makes up a big part of many economies. It is based on many different individuals, partnerships, and groups. The entities that form the private sector include:



Sole proprietorships
Partnerships
Small and mid-sized businesses
Large corporations and multinationals
Professional and trade associations
Trade unions



Even though the state may control the private sector, the government does legally regulate it. Any business or corporate entity operating in that country must operate under the laws. 


   Private and Public Sector Differences  

The private sector employs workers through individual business owners, corporations or other non-government agencies. Jobs include those in manufacturing, financial services, professions, hospitality, or other non-government positions. Workers are paid with part of the company’s profits. Private sector workers tend to have more pay increases, more career choices, greater opportunities for promotions, less job security, and less comprehensive benefit plans than public sector workers. Working in a more competitive marketplace often means longer hours in a more demanding environment than working for the government.



The public sector employs workers through the federal, state or local government. Typical civil service jobs are in healthcare, teaching, emergency services, armed forces, and various regulatory and administrative agencies. Workers are paid through a portion of the government’s tax dollars. Public sector workers tend to have more comprehensive benefit plans and more job security than private sector workers; once a probationary period concludes, many government positions become permanent appointments. Moving among public sector positions while retaining the same benefits, holiday entitlements, and sick pay is relatively easy while receiving pay increases and promotions is difficult. Working with a public agency provides a more stable work environment free of market pressures, unlike working in the private sector.



The Bureau of Labor Statistics tracks and reports both private and public employment for the United States.


   Private and Public Sector Partnerships  

The private and public sectors sometimes work together while promoting common interests. Private sector businesses leverage governmental assets and resources while developing, financing, owning and operating public facilities or services. For example, a private company might pay a state a one-time fee to operate a specific length of freeway for a set time in exchange for revenue from tolls.




What Is the Purpose of the Private Sector?
In addition to generating profits, the private sector provides employment opportunities, delivers specific goods and services, helps develop industries or technologies, enables the functioning of a diverse group of businesses, and adds to the national income. 




What Types of Companies Are Considered to Be in the Private Sector?
There are a number of types of companies or entities that constitute the private sector. They include sole proprietorships, partnerships, and privately-owned corporations.




What Are Examples of the Public Sector?
The public sector consists of all companies or agencies that are government owned or associated. Examples include federal agencies such as the I.R.S. and the U.S. Department of Labor, state services such as police and fire departments, and a variety of additional organizations that provide services to the public overall.


   The Bottom Line  

The private sector is the part of the economy that is not run by the government. It comprises the businesses and enterprises that are controlled by private individuals and groups for the purpose of making a profit. Companies and organizations run by the state are considered to be the public sector. In free market, capitalist-based societies, the private sector tends to make up a considerably larger portion of the economy than the public sector.
What Is Privatization?  

Privatization occurs when a government-owned business, operation, or property becomes owned by a private, non-government party.



Privatization may also describe a transition that takes a company from being publicly traded to becoming privately held. This is referred to as corporate privatization.





Key Takeaways

Privatization describes the process by which a piece of property or business goes from being owned by the government to being privately owned.It generally helps governments save money and increase efficiency, where private companies can move goods quicker and more efficiently.Critics of privatization suggest that basic services, such as education, shouldn’t be subject to market forces.Privatization may also refer to a public company becoming privately-held once again.


   How Privatization Works  

Privatization of specific government operations happens in a number of ways, though generally, the government transfers ownership of specific facilities or business processes to a private, for-profit company. Privatization generally helps governments save money and increase efficiency.



In general, two main sectors compose an economy: the public sector and the private sector. Government agencies generally run operations and industries within the public sector. In the U.S., the public sector includes the U.S. Postal Service, public schools and universities, the police and firefighter departments, the national park service, and the national security and defense services.



Enterprises not run by the government comprise the private sector. Private companies include the majority of firms in the consumer discretionary, consumer staples, finance, information technology, industrial, real estate, materials, and healthcare sectors.






There are two types of privatization: government and corporate; although the term generally applies to government-to-private transfers.


   Public-to-Private Privatization vs. Corporate Privatization  

Corporate privatization, on the other hand, allows a company to manage its business or restructure its operations without the strict regulatory or shareholders' oversight imposed on publicly listed companies.



This often appeals to companies if the leadership wants to make structural changes that would negatively impact shareholders. Corporate privatization sometimes takes place after a merger or following a tender offer to purchase a company’s shares. In order to be considered privately owned, a company cannot get financing through public trading via a stock exchange.



Dell Inc. is an example of a company that transitioned from being publicly traded to privately held. In 2013, with approval from its shareholders, Dell offered shareholders a fixed amount per share, plus a specified dividend as a way to buy back its stock and delist. Once the company paid off its existing shareholders, it ceased any public trading and removed its shares from the NASDAQ Stock Exchange, completing the transition to being privately held. In 2018, Dell reverted back to being a public company.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Privatization  

Proponents of privatization argue that privately-owned companies run businesses more economically and efficiently because they are profit incentivized to eliminate wasteful spending. Furthermore, private entities don’t have to contend with the bureaucratic red tape that can plague government entities.



On the other hand, privatization naysayers believe necessities like electricity, water, and schools shouldn’t be vulnerable to market forces or driven by profit. In certain states and municipalities, liquor stores and other non-essential businesses are run by public sectors, as revenue-generating operations.


   Real-World Examples of Privatization  

Before 2012, the state of Washington controlled all sales of liquor within the state, meaning that only the state could operate liquor stores. This policy allowed the state to regulate how and when liquor was sold, and to collect all revenue from liquor sales within the state. However, in 2012, the state moved to privatize liquor sales. Once privatized, private businesses such as Costco and Walmart could sell liquor to the general public. All previously state-run stores were sold to private owners or closed, and the state ceased collecting all revenue from liquor sales.



One of the most famous and historically important examples of privatization occurred after the fall of the Soviet Union. The Soviet Union's form of government was communism, where everything was owned and run by the state; there was no private property or business. Privatization began before the collapse of the Soviet Union under Mikhail Gorbachev, its then-leader, who implemented reforms to hand over certain government enterprises to the private sector. After the Soviet Union collapsed, there was mass privatization of previous government enterprises to a select portion of the populace in Russia, known as oligarchs, that dramatically increased inequality within the nation.






There have been several attempts to privatize the Social Security system in the U.S., where supporters believe returns would be greater for citizens and there would be increased economic growth.




What Types of Institutions Can Become Privatized?
Many types of institutions and facilities typically run by public officials, or governments can and have been privatized. These include, among others: prisons; public schools & universities, hospitals; highways; airports and harbors; public utilities (e.g., water, electricity); waste disposal; mail delivery; and communications infrastructure.




Why Are Some Prisons Privatized?
Prisons and jails are often owned and operated by local or state governments. But, there has been a trend to privatize these facilities as governments seek to lower costs, raise capital, and create jobs in their communities. Proponents argue that specialist companies are better-equipped and skilled at controlling prison populations, Critics, however, argue that for-profit prisons are rife with scandal, cutting corners, prisoner abuse, and other ethics violations.




Do Shareholders Get Anything if a Company Goes Private?
Yes. Shareholders first must agree to give up ownership in the company in exchange for some amount of money. If approved, all shareholders will receive a certain amount per share, often at a premium to the market price. Afterward, they are no longer shareholders and the company's shares would be de-listed from exchanges.
What Is Privileged Communication?  

Privileged communication is an interaction between two parties in which the law recognizes a private, protected relationship. Whatever is communicated between the two parties must remain confidential, and the law cannot force their disclosure.



Even disclosure by one of the parties comes with legal limitations. There are, however, exceptions that can invalidate a privileged communication relationship. There are also various circumstances under which privileged communication can be waived, either deliberately or unintentionally. Commonly cited relationships where privileged communication exists are those between attorney and client, doctor–or therapist–and patient, and priest and parishioner.





Key Takeaways

Privileged communication protects the confidentiality of interactions between two parties, whom the law classifies as entitled to a private, protected relationship.Some relationships that provide the protection of privileged communication include attorney-client, doctor-patient, priest-parishioner, two spouses, and (in some states) reporter-source.If harm—or the threat of harm—to people is involved, the privileged communication protection disappears.


   How Privileged Communication Works  

In addition to attorney-client privilege and conversations with medical professionals and religious officials, privileged communications include those between two spouses, accountant, and client, and, in some states, reporters and their sources.



In professional relationships, the right of protection for the communication belongs to the client, patient, or penitent. The recipient of the information must keep the communication private (unless the privilege is waived by the discloser of the information). If the recipient of the information fails to keep the information private, in many instances they can lose their operating license.



The key provisions of privilege between spouses are that courts cannot force husbands or wives to disclose the contents of confidential communications made during marriage—nor can either spouse be compelled to testify against the other. These rights, which endure even after a marriage is dissolved, are designed to protect the honesty and confidentiality of marriage. However, these protections do not prevent one or the other spouse from testifying against the other in court (should they choose to do so).


   Special Considerations  

To ensure confidential status in a privileged communication relationship, the communication made between the two parties must take place in a private setting–for example, a meeting room–where the parties have a reasonable expectation that others might not overhear them.



However, the privileged status of the communication ends if–or when–the communication is shared with a third party that is not part of the protected relationship. However, a person who is an agent of the recipient of the information—an accountant's secretary, say, or a doctor's nurse—is generally not considered to be a third party who jeopardizes the privileged status of the communication.



It is important to keep in mind that there are situations where privileged communications stops being private. For example, if there have been disclosures of harm to people, or the threat of harm to people in the future. Communications with medical professionals are not protected when the professional has reason to believe the patient may bring harm to themselves or others.



The lack of protection typically extends to suspected abuse of children or other vulnerable people, such as the elderly or disabled. Even between spouses, privileged communication typically does not apply in cases involving the harm, or the threat of harm, to a spouse or children in the couple's care, or to crimes jointly committed with the other spouse.
What Is Pro Forma?  

Pro forma means “for the sake of form” or “as a matter of form." When it appears in financial statements, it indicates that a method of calculating financial results using certain projections or presumptions has been used.



Pro forma financials are not computed using generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and usually leave out one-time expenses that are not part of normal company operations, such as restructuring costs following a merger.



Essentially, a pro forma financial statement can exclude anything a company believes obscures the accuracy of its financial outlook and can be a useful piece of information to help assess a company's future prospects.





Key Takeaways

Pro forma, Latin for “as a matter of form” or “for the sake of form”, is a method of calculating financial results using certain projections or presumptions.Pro forma financials may not be GAAP compliant but can be issued to the public to highlight certain items for potential investors.They can also be used internally by management for aiding in business decisions.It's illegal for publicly traded companies to mislead investors with pro forma financial results that do not use the most conservative possible estimates of revenue and expense.












Investopedia / Matthew Collins


   What Are the Types of Pro Forma Financial Statements?  

Pro forma financial statements are projections of future expenses and revenues, based on a company's past experience and future plans.



Some standard pro format statements include the following:


  Pro Forma Budget Documents  

A budget anticipates the inflow of projected revenues and the outflow of funds for a defined future period, usually a fiscal year.



A budget is based on certain assumptions about future expenses and revenues. It takes into account past expenses and revenues and factors in the costs of the company's plans for the fiscal year.


  Pro Forma Company Income Statements  

A pro forma income statement uses the pro forma calculation method, mainly to draw the attention of potential investors to specific numbers when a company issues its quarterly earnings announcement.



For example, a company will report its actual sales and expenses for the quarter that just passed and, in the same chart, will list its projections of these numbers for the current quarter.



In this case, the company is projecting the future, based on its knowledge of past sales and expenses and factoring in expected changes.


  Pro Forma Earnings Projections  

A company may present a pro forma statement to inform investors about their internal assessment of the financial outcome of a proposed change in the business.



For example, if a company is considering an acquisition or a merger, it may publish a pro format statement of the expected impact of the move on its future earnings and expenses.


  Pro Forma Financial Accounting  

In financial accounting, a pro forma earnings report excludes unusual or nonrecurring transactions.



These excluded expenses could include declining investment values, restructuring costs, and adjustments made on the company’s balance sheet that fix accounting errors from prior years.


  Pro Forma Managerial Accounting  

Accountants prepare financial statements in the pro forma method ahead of a proposed transaction such as an acquisition, merger, a change in a company's capital structure, or new capital investment.



These are models that forecast the expected result of the proposed transaction. They focus on estimated net revenues, cash flows, and taxes.



The statements are presented to the company's management to help it make a decision on a proposed action based on its potential benefits and costs.


   Limitations of Pro Forma Statements  

Investors should be aware that a company’s pro forma financial statements can hold figures or calculations that do not comply with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the set of standards followed by public companies for their financial statements.



In fact, they can differ vastly. Pro forma results may contain adjustments to GAAP numbers in order to highlight important aspects of the company's operating performance.



Pro forma financials in the United States boomed in the late 1990s when dot-com companies used the method to make losses appear like profits or, at a minimum, to reveal much greater gains than indicated through U.S. GAAP accounting methods.



The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) responded by cautioning that publicly traded companies report and make public U.S. GAAP-based financial results as well. The SEC also clarified that it would deem using pro forma results to grossly misconstrue GAAP-based results and mislead investors fraudulent and punishable by law.





Important

Using pro forma results to grossly misconstrue GAAP-based results and mislead investors is deemed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to be fraudulent and punishable by law.


   How to Create a Pro Forma Statement  

Basic templates for creating pro forma statements can be found online, or they can be created using a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet to automatically populate and calculate the correct entries based on your inputs.



You can also create a pro format financial statement by hand. The steps are:



Calculate the estimated revenue projections for your business. This process is called pro forma forecasting. Use realistic market assumptions. Do your research and speak with experts and accountants to determine what a normal annual revenue stream is, as well as asset accumulation assumptions. Your estimates should be on the conservative side.
Estimate your total liabilities and costs. Liabilities include loans and lines of credit. Costs include lease payments, utilities, employee pay, insurance, licenses, permits, materials, and taxes. Keep your estimates realistic.
 Use the revenue projections from Step 1 and the total costs found in Step 2 to create the first part of your pro format, This part will project your future net income (NI).
Estimate cash flows. This part of the pro forma statement will identify the net effect on cash if the proposed business change is implemented. Cash flow differs from NI because, under accrual accounting, certain revenues and expenses are recognized prior to or after cash changes hands.



Here’s a historical example of a pro forma income statement, courtesy of Tesla Inc.'s (TSLA) unaudited pro forma condensed and consolidated income statement for the year ended Dec. 31, 2016.















Source: U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.




What Is a Pro Forma Financial Statement?
Pro forma financial statements incorporate hypothetical numbers or estimates. They are built into the data to give a picture of a company's profits if certain nonrecurring items are excluded.These are often intended to be preliminary or illustrative financials that do not follow standard accounting practices. Companies use their own discretion in calculating pro forma earnings, including or excluding items depending on what they feel reflects the company's true performance or future performance.As pro forma forecasts are hypothetical in nature, they can deviate from actual results, sometimes significantly.




What's the Difference Between Pro Forma and GAAP Financials?
There are no universal rules that companies must follow when reporting pro forma earnings. This is why it is important for investors to distinguish between pro forma earnings and those reported using generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).GAAP enforces strict guidelines when companies report earnings, while pro forma figures are better thought of as hypothetical earnings.For this reason, investors must examine not only the pro forma earnings, but also GAAP earnings, and never mistake one for the other.




What Is a Pro Forma Invoice?
A pro forma invoice is a preliminary bill of sale sent to a buyer in advance of a shipment or delivery of goods. The invoice will typically describe the purchased items and other important information, such as the shipping weight and transport charges.A pro forma invoice requires only enough information to allow customs officials to determine the duties needed from a general examination of the included goods.




Can You Compare Pro Forma Statements From Different Companies?
Maybe, but it is not advised. Companies' definitions of pro forma vary along with their internal methods for forecasting and making assumptions.If you don't know how each of the companies defines its pro forma figures, you may be comparing apples to oranges.
What Is a Pro Forma Invoice?  

A pro forma invoice is actually not an invoice. It is a preliminary bill of sale sent to buyers when an order is placed and in advance of a shipment or delivery of goods. It will typically describe the purchased items, price, and other important information such as the shipping weight and transport charges.





Key Takeaways

Pro forma invoices are sent to buyers ahead of a shipment or delivery of goods or services.A final, formal invoice is provided to buyers once a transaction is complete.Most pro forma invoices provide the buyer with a precise purchase price.No guidelines dictate the exact presentation or format of a pro forma invoiceA pro forma invoice requires only enough information to allow customs to determine from a general examination the duties needed on a shipment of goods.


   Understanding Pro Forma Invoices  

A pro forma invoice is different from a simple price quotation in that it lays out the terms of a transaction. However, the terms are subject to change. It represents a good faith estimate that's used to inform the buyer and prevent misunderstandings about any unexpected or significant charges once the transaction is final.



Businesses in virtually all industries use pro forma invoices to satisfy their internal purchase approval process. Pro forma invoices streamline the sales process by limiting additional back-and-forth after a transaction is intiated, as all terms have been defined upfront.



Most pro forma invoices provide the buyer with a precise sale price. They include an estimate of any commissions or fees such as applicable taxes and shipping costs.



A firm may send a pro forma invoice before shipping any agreed-upon deliverables or with the shipped items. It contains cost details associated with the sale but is not an official demand for payment. No guidelines dictate the exact presentation or format of a pro forma invoice, and it may or may not resemble actual commercial invoices.






Pro forma invoices often come into play with international transactions, especially for customs purposes relating to duties on imports.


   Purpose of a Pro Forma Invoice  

A pro forma invoice is used by a seller to communicate to a buyer the expected costs, fees, and date of delivery for an order. This transparency can help the manufacturer avoid any misunderstandings when the order is delivered. The pro forma invoice represents an estimate of the costs that the buying party should expect to pay.



A pro forma invoice also provides the buyer with an opportunity to negotiate the terms before delivery. For example, if the buyer is not satisfied with the price, quantity, or delivery timeline, they can contact the manufacturer to reach a mutually-satisfactory conclusion.



Pro forma invoices aren't legally required but they're generally a good idea because they can prevent disputes at the time of delivery.


   Pro Forma Information  
  For International Shipments  

Specific documentation is required before goods can pass through customs into the U.S. A traditional commercial invoice must list substantial information such as the buyer and the seller, a description of the goods, the quantity, the value for all the shipped items, and the location of the purchase, the method of payment, currency, carrier, and more.



A pro forma invoice isn't needed for international shipments but is often used when a transaction that isn't final requires an estimate of the cost of products being bought. It should include enough information to allow customs to determine the duties needed from a general examination of the included goods. This information can include:



Estimated priceProduct description and qualityProduct quantityPayment methodExpected delivery time



If a firm uses a pro forma invoice for customs, it must also present a commercial invoice within 120 days.


  For Other Transactions  

A pro forma invoice should include all the details of a transaction even if certain figures aren't yet final so that nothing comes as a surprise to the buyer. Depending on the type of business, a pro forma invoice can include:



The terms "Pro Forma Invoice" and "Not an Invoice"Transaction dateProduct descriptionQuantitySelling priceDelivery dateHandling feesShipping costsAny customer or seller specifications






Pro forma means "for the sake of form." It's used to announce that the information within a document is based on projections and isn't final.


   Pro Forma Invoice vs. Final Invoice  

While a pro forma invoice represents a preliminary notification of the terms of a purchase agreement, a formal (final) invoice is an official commercial instrument that informs the receiving party of their payment obligation. A formal invoice is usually issued at the time of delivery, and constitutes a request for payment by the receiving party.



Unlike an official invoice, a pro forma invoice is simply used to prevent misunderstandings about the specifics of a transaction, such as the amount due. It is usually issued at the time an order is placed, so that the buyer can clarify any questions about the price or date of delivery.


   Pro Forma Invoice Example  

A firm may use a pro forma invoice if the terms of the sales contract specify that full payment is not due until the buyer receives certain goods. 



For example, a bakery customer might agree to the price of a cake on a pro forma invoice, and the baker will deliver the cake once it is ready. The customer will then pay for it when they receive the final, formal invoice. The final invoice amount should be the same or close to the amount on the pro forma invoice.




What Is in a Pro Forma Invoice?
Most pro forma invoices provide the buyer with a product description, selling price, and an estimate of any commissions or fees. Although the pro forma invoice may be subject to change, it provides all transaction details so that no charges come as a surprise once the transaction is final.




How Does a Commercial Invoice Differ From a Pro Forma Invoice?
A traditional commercial invoice for international shipments must list substantial information such as the buyer and the seller, a description of the goods, the quantity, the value for all the shipped items, the location of the purchase, currency, mode of transport, payment terms and method of payment. A pro forma invoice requires only enough information to allow customs to determine the duties on the shipment, from a general examination of the included goods.




Can a Seller Cancel a Pro Forma Invoice?
It doesn't need to be. A pro forma invoice is simply a description of an impending transaction, based on an order placed by the buyer. It isn't an actual request for payment. It confirms certain details and makes it clear that others are yet to be confirmed.


   The Bottom Line  

A pro forma invoice is a preliminary document that outlines the terms of sale when an order is placed. Although it is not final, a pro forma invoice should give the buyer a clear understanding of the terms of sale, including the price, date of delivery, and any additional fees. It is less official than a formal/final invoice, which is typically issued at the time of delivery.
What Is Pro Rata?  

Pro rata is a Latin term used to describe a proportionate allocation. It essentially translates to "in proportion," which means a process where whatever is being allocated will be distributed in equal portions.



If something is given out to people on a pro rata basis, it means assigning an amount to one person according to their share of the whole. While a pro rata calculation can be used to determine the appropriate portions of any given whole, it is often used in business finance.





Key Takeaways

If something is given out pro rata, it typically means everyone gets their fair share.Pro rata means proportionally, such as dividends awarded to investors based on their proportion of investment.The concept of pro rata is rooted in fractions, as proration attempts to make two fractions equal to each other but with different denominators.The practice of prorating can apply in many areas, from billing for services to paying out dividends or allocating business partnership income.Pro rata is calculated by dividing the instance of an item by the maximum quantity of that item. This ratio can then be applied to any related item to find the same proportion. 












Investopedia / Matthew Collins


   Understanding Pro Rata  

Pro rata typically means that each party or person receives their fair share in proportion to the whole. Pro rata calculations can be used in many areas, including determining dividend payments, which are cash payments by corporations paid to shareholders.



In insurance, pro rata is used to determine the amount of premium due for a policy that only covers a partial term. Allocating the appropriate portion of an annual interest rate to a shorter time frame can also be done via pro rata.



Pro rata is also used to determine how much of a distribution from a qualified retirement account—such as an IRA, SEP, or 401(k)—is taxable when the account contains before and after-tax dollars. For example, an account holder has a 401(k) funded with 20% pre-tax dollars and 80% post-tax dollars. As a result, withdrawals will consist of 20% taxable and 80% non-taxable money.


   How to Calculate Pro Rata  

Pro rata is calculated based on three items:



The number of items true, owned, or having been incurred.The total quantity of that item (i.e. maximum quantity possible).The quantity of a related item that will be assigned in the second bullet above.



Pro Rata Share = (Number of "True" Items / Maximum Quantity Possible)



Pro Rata Distribution = Pro Rata Share * Quantity of Related Item



For example, imagine an employee set to receive a $10,000 bonus this year. If the employee leaves at any point, they will receive a pro rata share of the bonus. The employee leaves on March 20th. The agreement awards the bonus based on the number of days worked (inclusive of the last day).



To calculate the pro rata share, divide the number of true items by the maximum quantity possible. In this example, the number of true items is the number of days worked. Assuming a non-leap year, there are 79 days (inclusive) between January 1 and March 20. In addition, the maximum number of days possible is 365.



Pro rata share = 79 / 365 = 21.64%



To calculate the pro rata distribution, multiply the pro rata share by the related item. In this example, the item we want to pro rate is the annual bonus.



Pro rata distribution = 21.64% * $10,000 = $2,164



Therefore, in this example, by leaving on March 20th, the employee will receive a pro rata distribution of $2,164 based on the prorated number of days worked of the year.






Pro rata can be communicated as a percent (i.e. the shareholder owns 10% of the company's stock) or as a quantity (i.e. the shareholder owns 100,000 of the company's 1 million shares of stock.


   Why Pro Rata Works  

The mathematical concept of pro rata works because the proportion of one good is imposed on another. Pro rata entails taking a fraction of one item and conveying the same fraction on another base.



The root of pro rata is grounded in proportionally equal fractions with different denominators. In the example of above, the fraction 79/365 is equal to the fraction 2,164/10,000 (ignoring rounding variances). Therefore, pro rata is simply taking one fraction and finding its equal given a specific denominator. Stated another way, pro rata attempts to solve for the numerator to make two fractions equal given specific criteria.



Consider another example where you and a friend want to proportionally share four pieces of pizza. If the slices are to shared equally, each of you would receive 50% of the pizza. Therefore, this pro rata example is trying to determine which fraction with a denominator of 4 is equal to 1/2. Since 2/4 = 1/2, each of you get two slices.


   Examples of Pro Rata  
  Pro Rata and Dividends per Shareholder  

When a company pays dividends to its shareholders, each investor is paid according to its holdings. If a company has 100 shares outstanding, for example, and issues a dividend of $2 per share, the total amount of dividends paid will be $200. No matter how many shareholders there are, the total dividend payments cannot exceed this limit. In this case, $200 is the whole, and the pro rata calculation must be used to determine the appropriate portion of that whole due to each shareholder.



Assume there are only four shareholders who hold 50, 25, 15, and 10 shares, respectively. The amount due to each shareholder is their pro rata share. This is calculated by dividing the ownership of each person by the total number of shares and then multiplying the resulting fraction by the total amount of the dividend payment.



The majority shareholder's portion, therefore, is (50 / 100) x $200 = $100. This makes sense because the shareholder owns half of the shares and receives half of the total dividends. The remaining shareholders get $50, $30, and $20, respectively.






Be mindful of situations where weight is not given to different individuals. For example, regardless of age, income, or any other factor, every American citizen eligible to vote can cast a tally equal to every other citizen. In this example, the pro rata value of the vote is equal to 1 divided by the total population that votes.


  Pro Rata for Insurance Premiums  

Another common use is to determine the amount due for a partial insurance policy term. Most insurance policies are based on a 12-month period, so if a policy is needed for a shorter term, the insurance company must prorate the annual premium to determine what is owed. To do this, divide the total premium by the number of days in a standard term, and multiply by the number of days covered by the truncated policy.



For example, assume an auto policy that typically covers a full year carries a premium of $1,000. If the insured only requires the policy for 270 days, then the company must reduce the premium accordingly. The pro rata premium due for this period is ($1,000 / 365) x 270 = $739.73.


  Pro Rata for Interest Rates  

Pro rata calculations are also used to determine the amount of interest that will be earned on an investment. If an investment earns an annual interest rate, then the pro rata amount earned for a shorter period is calculated by dividing the total amount of interest by the number of months in a year and multiplying by the number of months in the truncated period. The amount of interest earned in two months on an investment that yields 10% interest each year is (10% / 12) x 2 = 1.67%.



When it comes to bonds, payment on accrued interest is calculated on a pro rata basis. Accrued interest is the total interest that has accumulated on a bond since its last coupon payment. When the bondholder sells the bond before the next coupon date, they're still entitled to the interest that accrues up until the time the bond is sold. The bond buyer, not the issuer, is responsible for paying the bond seller the accrued interest, which is added to the market price.



The formula for accrued interest is as follows:


















AI


=


Face Value of Bond


×


Coupon Rate


×


Time Factor
















where:
















AI


=


Accrued Interest
















Coupon Rate


=



Annual Coupon Rate


Number of Periods Per Year

















Time Factor


=



Days Lapsed Since Last Payment


Days in Payment Period








\begin{aligned} &\text{AI} = \text{Face Value of Bond} \times \text{Coupon Rate} \times \text{Time Factor} \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{AI} = \text{Accrued Interest} \\ &\text{Coupon Rate} = \frac{ \text{Annual Coupon Rate} }{ \text{Number of Periods Per Year} } \\ &\text{Time Factor} = \frac{ \text{Days Lapsed Since Last Payment} }{ \text{Days in Payment Period} } \\ \end{aligned}


​AI=Face Value of Bond×Coupon Rate×Time Factorwhere:AI=Accrued InterestCoupon Rate=Number of Periods Per YearAnnual Coupon Rate​Time Factor=Days in Payment PeriodDays Lapsed Since Last Payment​​



The factor is calculated by dividing the length of time the bond was held after the last coupon payment by the time from one coupon payment to the next.



For example, consider a bondholder who sells their corporate bond on June 30. The bond has a face value of $1,000 and a 5% coupon rate, which pays semiannually on March 1 and Sept. 1. The buyer of the bond will pay the seller:


















$


1


,


000


×




5


%



2



×



122


184



=


$


16.58







\begin{aligned}&\$1,000 \times \frac { 5\% } { 2 } \times \frac { 122 }{ 184 } = \$16.58 \\\end{aligned}


​$1,000×25%​×184122​=$16.58​




What Does Pro Rata Mean?
Pro rata is a defined portion in relation to the entirety of an item. Instead of getting all of the items, someone can get a pro rata share, a proportional offering based on how much they are entitled to. For example, if I own 10% of a building, I may expect a pro rata share of 10% of the building's rental income.




What Is the Difference Between Prorated and Pro Rata?
Pro rata and prorated are used interchangeably to define the same thing. Both signify that of any given whole unit, a specific section of it has a defined allocation for an underlying reason.




How Do I Calculate Pro Rata?
Naturally, calculating the pro rata of different items varies since it calculates a proportion of a given whole. To calculate the prorated interest rate over six months, for instance, consider a company that charges 20% interest per year. Here, the prorated interest rate would be calculated as (20% / 12) x 6 = 10%. 




How Does Pro Rata Apply to Dividends Per Share?
When a company distributes dividends, typically it is executed on a pro rata basis. For example, consider a majority shareholder, such as a founder or key executive, who owns 50% of a company's total 1,000 shares and the company is issuing a $1 dividend. Of the $1,000 in dividends, the majority shareholder would receive $500 in value. The formula would be as follows: (50 / 100) x $1,000 = $500. 




What Is a Pro Rata Discount?
A pro rata discount is a type of discount a merchant offers a customer. Companies offer customers discounts for a variety of reasons. They may offer a discount as an incentive to a new customer to try a product or service. They may offer a discount if the customer makes a purchase during a specific time period or as a bonus to a returning customer.The pro rata part of the discount varies depending on how the merchant has structured their offer. For example, a merchant may offer a new customer $20 off their first purchase of products if they spend $100 or more. If the customer buys four products, each item would receive a $5 discount.A pro rata discount could also apply if a customer joins a monthly subscription service on any day other than the first of the month. Rather than charging the customer the full subscription price for the month, the merchant would apply a pro rata discount and only charge the customer for the number of days in the month they actually had the service.
What Is a Probability Density Function (PDF)?  

The probability density function (PDF) is a statistical expression that defines the probability that some outcome will occur. In this function, the probability is the percentage of a dataset's distribution that falls between two criteria.



PDF is used by financial analysts to understand how returns are distributed in order to evaluate the risk and expectations of investment prices and returns.





Key Takeaways

Probability density functions are a statistical measure used to gauge the likelihood that an investment will have returns that fall within a range of values and indicate the risks involved.PDFs are usually plotted on a graph that typically resembles a bell curve, with the data lying below the curve.A skewed curve at either end indicates greater or lesser risk/reward.


   Understanding Probability Density Functions (PDFs)  

Probability density function is a measurement of how often investment returns fall within a specified range. PDFs are typically depicted on a graph, with a normal bell curve indicating neutral market risk, and a skewed curve at either end indicating greater or lesser risk-reward.



Skewness is a shift of the taller portion of the curve to the right or left. If the curve is shifted to the left with a long tail on the right (right skew), analysts consider it to suggest there is greater upside reward. If it is shifted to the right with a long tail to the left (left skew), analysts suggest that there is greater downside risk.



The image below demonstrates normally distributed data with a bell curve. The data mean is the line in the middle, and the vertical lines are standard deviations, or how far data falls from the mean.



The first two vertical lines on either side of the mean show that 68.5% of the data fall within +/-1 standard deviation from the mean. So, if this were a curve of normally distributed stock returns, you would see that 68.5% of the time, returns fall between the -1 SD and +1 SD lines and that market risk is neutral (there is no skew).






You should note that investment returns are rarely, if ever, normally distributed, so graphs will likely never be a clean normal distribution curve.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2020


   Calculating PDF  

Computing the PDF and plotting it graphically can involve complex calculations that use differential equations or integral calculus. In practice, graphing calculators or statistical software packages are required to calculate a probability density function.


   Example of a Probability Density Function  

The probability density function measures continuous variables—stock and investment returns are generally not continuous random variables; they are discrete. However, most financial analysts assume that returns and prices are continuous so that they can model performance and analyze risks.



In the image below, the S&P 500 index values from May 20, 2020, to May 19, 2023, were sequenced and plotted. The result was a bell curve with right skew, indicating the possibility of greater upside reward over the previous three years.














What Does a Probability Density Function (PDF) Tell Us?
A probability density function (PDF) describes how likely it is to observe some outcome resulting from a data-generating process. A PDF can tell us which values are most likely to appear vs. the less likely outcomes. This will change depending on the shape and characteristics of the PDF.




What Is the Central Limit Theorem (CLT) and How Does It Relate to PDFs?
The central limit theorem (CLT) states that the distribution of a random variable in a sample will begin to approach a normal distribution as the sample size becomes larger, regardless of the true shape of the distribution. Thus, we know that flipping a coin is a binary process, described by the binomial distribution (heads or tails).However, if we consider several coin tosses, the odds of getting any particular combination of heads and tails begin to differ. For instance, if we were to flip the coin ten times, the odds of getting 5 of each is most likely, but getting ten heads in a row is extremely rare. Imagine 1,000 coin flips, and the distribution approaches the normal bell curve.




What Is a PDF vs. a CDF?
A probability density function (PDF) explains which values are likely to appear in a data-generating process at any given time or for any given draw. A cumulative distribution function (CDF) instead depicts how these marginal probabilities add up, ultimately reaching 100% (or 1.0) of possible outcomes. Using a CDF, we can see how likely it is that a variable's outcome will be less than or equal to some predicted value.


   The Bottom Line  

Probability distribution functions (PDFs) describe the expected values of random variables drawn from a sample. The shape of the PDF explains how likely it is that an observed value might occur.



Stock prices and returns tend to follow a log-normal distribution rather than a normal one, indicating that downside losses are more frequent than very large gains, relative to what the normal distribution would predict.
What Is a Probability Distribution?  

A probability distribution is a statistical function that describes all the possible values and likelihoods that a random variable can take within a given range. This range will be bounded between the minimum and maximum possible values, but precisely where the possible value is likely to be plotted on the probability distribution depends on a number of factors. These factors include the distribution's mean (average), standard deviation, skewness, and kurtosis.





Key Takeaways

A probability distribution depicts the expected outcomes of possible values for a given data-generating process.Probability distributions come in many shapes with different characteristics, as defined by the mean, standard deviation, skewness, and kurtosis.Investors use probability distributions to anticipate returns on assets such as stocks over time and to hedge their risk.


   How Probability Distributions Work  

Perhaps the most common probability distribution is the normal distribution, or "bell curve," although several distributions exist that are commonly used. Typically, the data-generating process of some phenomenon will dictate its probability distribution. This process is called the probability density function.



Probability distributions can also be used to create cumulative distribution functions (CDFs), which add up the probability of occurrences cumulatively and will always start at zero and end at 100%.



Academics, financial analysts, and fund managers alike may determine a particular stock's probability distribution to evaluate the possible expected returns that the stock may yield in the future.



The stock's history of returns, which can be measured from any time interval, will likely be composed of only a fraction of the stock's returns, which will subject the analysis to sampling error. By increasing the sample size, this error can be dramatically reduced.


   Types of Probability Distributions  

There are many different classifications of probability distributions. Some of them include the normal distribution, chi-square distribution, binomial distribution, and Poisson distribution. The different probability distributions serve different purposes and represent different data generation processes.


  Binomial  

The binomial distribution, for example, evaluates the probability of an event occurring several times over a given number of trials and given the event's probability in each trial. It may be generated, for example, by keeping track of how many free throws a basketball player makes in a game, where 1 = a basket and 0 = a miss.



Another typical example would be to use a fair coin and figure out the probability of that coin coming up heads in 10 straight flips. A binomial distribution is discrete, as opposed to continuous, since only 1 or 0 is a valid response.


  Normal  

The most commonly used distribution is the normal distribution, which is used frequently in finance, investing, science, and engineering. The normal distribution is fully characterized by its mean and standard deviation, meaning the distribution is not skewed and does exhibit kurtosis.



This makes the distribution symmetric and it is depicted as a bell-shaped curve when plotted. A normal distribution is defined by a mean (average) of zero and a standard deviation of 1.0, with a skew of zero and kurtosis = 3.



In a normal distribution, approximately 68% of the data collected will fall within +/- one standard deviation of the mean; approximately 95% within +/- two standard deviations; and 99.7% within three standard deviations. Unlike the binomial distribution, the normal distribution is continuous, meaning that all possible values are represented (as opposed to just 0 and 1 with nothing in between).


   Probability Distributions Used in Investing  

Stock returns are often assumed to be normally distributed but in reality, they exhibit kurtosis with large negative and positive returns seeming to occur more than would be predicted by a normal distribution.



In fact, because stock prices are bounded by zero but offer a potentially unlimited upside, the distribution of stock returns has been described as log-normal. This shows up on a plot of stock returns with the tails of the distribution having a greater thickness.



Probability distributions are often used in risk management as well to evaluate the probability and amount of losses that an investment portfolio would incur based on a distribution of historical returns.



One popular risk management metric used in investing is value-at-risk (VaR). VaR yields the minimum loss that can occur given a probability and time frame for a portfolio. Alternatively, an investor can get a probability of loss for an amount of loss and time frame using VaR. Misuse and overreliance on VaR have been implicated as one of the major causes of the 2008 financial crisis.


   Example of a Probability Distribution  

As a simple example of a probability distribution, let us look at the number observed when rolling two standard six-sided dice. Each die has a 1/6 probability of rolling any single number, one through six, but the sum of two dice will form the probability distribution depicted in the image below. Seven is the most common outcome (1+6, 6+1, 5+2, 2+5, 3+4, 4+3). Two and twelve, on the other hand, are far less likely (1+1 and 6+6).












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020




What Makes a Probability Distribution Valid?
There are two steps to determining whether or not a probability distribution is valid. In step 1, the analysis should determine whether or not each probability is greater than or equal to zero and less than or equal to 1. In step 2, determine if the sum of all the probabilities is equal to 1. If both step 1 and step 2 are true, then the probability distribution is valid.




How Are Probability Distributions Used in Finance?
There are two main ways in which probability distributions are used in Finance: (1) to estimate the returns of an investment asset and (2) to determine the possibility of loss events which will allow the investor to hedge their risk.




What Are the Most Commonly Used Probability Distributions?
The most commonly used probability distributions are uniform, binomial, Bernoulli, normal, Poisson, and exponential.


   The Bottom Line  

Probability distributions describe all of the possible values that a random variable can take. It is used in investing, particularly in determining the possible performance of a stock, as well as in the risk management component of investing by helping to determine the maximum loss.
What Is Probate?  

Probate is the process completed when a decedent leaves assets to distribute, such as bank accounts, real estate, and financial investments. Probate is the general administration of a deceased person's will or the estate of a deceased person without a will.



An executor is commonly named in the will or an administrator, if there is no will, to complete the probate process. This involves collecting the deceased's assets to pay any remaining liabilities on their estate and distributing the assets to beneficiaries.





Key Takeaways

Probate is the legal process for reviewing the assets of a deceased person and determining inheritors.Probate proceedings typically focus on the existence, authenticity, and validity of a will.Probate can be initiated with or without a will. A proceeding is usually essential when a deceased person’s remaining estate is of high value even when there is a will.Individuals can avoid exorbitant probate costs and complexities by having an easily authenticated will or using investment vehicles that do not require probate.


   How Probate Works  

Probate is the analysis and transfer administration of estate assets previously owned by a deceased person. When a property owner dies, their assets are commonly reviewed by a probate court. This court provides the final ruling on the division and distribution of assets to beneficiaries. A probate proceeding will typically begin by analyzing whether or not the deceased person has provided a legalized will.



In many cases, the deceased person has established documentation, which contains instructions on how their assets should be distributed after death. However, in some cases, the deceased does not leave a will. There are special circumstances that occur with both situations that we've listed below.


   Probate with a Will  

A deceased person with a will is known as a testator. When a testator dies, the executor is responsible for initiating the probate process. The executor is typically a family member. The will can also provide details on a specified executor.



The executor is responsible for filing the will with the probate court. States can have different rules for the timeframe in which a will must be filed after death. Filing the will initiates the probate process. The probate process is a court-supervised proceeding in which the authenticity of the will left behind is proven to be valid and accepted as the true last testament of the deceased. The court officially appoints the executor named in the will, which gives the executor the legal power to act on behalf of the deceased.


  The Executor  

A will typically designate a legal representative or executor approved by the court. This person is responsible for locating and overseeing all the assets of the deceased. The executor has to estimate the value of the estate by using either the date of death value or the alternate valuation date, as specified by the Internal Revenue Code (IRC).



Most assets that are subject to probate administration come under the supervision of the probate court in the place where the decedent lived at death. The exception is real estate. Probate for real estate may need to be extended to any county in which the real estate is located.



The executor also has to pay off any taxes and debt owed by the deceased from the estate. Creditors usually have a limited amount of time (approximately one year) from the date of death to make any claims against the estate for money owed to them. Claims that are rejected by the executor can be taken to court where a probate judge will have the final say on whether or not the claim is justified.



The executor is also responsible for filing the final, personal income tax returns on behalf of the deceased. Any estate taxes that are pending can also come due within one year from the date of death. After the inventory of the estate has been taken, the value of assets calculated, and debts paid off, the executor will then seek authorization from the court to distribute whatever is left of the estate to the beneficiaries.



If a deceased person’s estate is insolvent, which means that their debts outweigh their assets, an administrator will likely choose not to initiate probate. In general, individual states may have their own rulings on a statute of limitations for the processing of a will through probate. States can also have thresholds for probate filings.






Trust funds can be orchestrated to pass immediately to designated inheritors upon death.


   Probate Without a Will  

When a person dies without a will, he is said to have died intestate. An intestate estate is also one where the will presented to the court has been deemed to be invalid. The probate process for an intestate estate includes distributing the decedent’s assets according to state laws. If a deceased person has no assets, probate may not be necessary.



In general, a probate court proceeding usually begins with the appointment of an administrator to oversee the estate of the deceased. The administrator functions as an executor, receiving all legal claims against the estate and paying off the outstanding debts.



The administrator is tasked with locating any legal heirs of the deceased, including surviving spouses, children, and parents. The probate court will assess what assets need to be distributed among the legal heirs and how to distribute them. The probate laws in most states divide property among the surviving spouse and children of the deceased.



Asset transfer to the government is known as escheatment. States do typically have a timeframe for the claiming of any assets by an heir who may step forward.


  Spouses as Joint Property Owners  

Community property laws can recognize both spouses as joint property owners in an intestate proceeding. In effect, the distribution hierarchy typically starts with the surviving spouse. If unmarried or widowed at the time of death, assets are usually divided among any surviving children. After a spouse and children are considered, other relatives may also be deemed appropriate for distribution.



Close friends of the deceased will not normally be added to the list of beneficiaries under a state’s probate laws for intestate estates. However, If the deceased had a joint account with right of survivorship or owned property jointly with another, the joint asset would automatically be owned by the surviving partner.






If an individual has no will and no heirs, any remaining assets go to the state.


   Is a Probate Always Required?  

It is important to know whether a probate is required following the death of an individual. The probate process can take a long time to finalize. The more complex or contested the estate is, the more time it will take to settle and distribute the assets. The longer the duration, the higher the cost.



Probating an estate without a will is typically costlier than probating one with a valid will. However, the time and cost required of each are still high. Also, since the proceedings of a probate court are publicly recorded, avoiding probate would ensure that all settlements are done privately.



Different states have different laws concerning probate and whether probate is required after the death of a testator. Some states have a specified estate value, which requires probate. For example, probate laws in Texas hold that if the value of the estate is less than $75,000, then probate may be skipped.



If an estate is small enough to bypass the probate process, then the estate’s asset may be claimed using alternative legal actions, such as an affidavit. Typically, if a deceased person’s debts exceed their assets, probate is not necessarily initiated and alternative actions may be taken.



Some assets can bypass probate because beneficiaries have been initiated through contractual terms. Pension plans, life insurance proceeds, 401k plans, medical savings accounts, and individual retirement accounts (IRA) that have designated beneficiaries will not need to be probated. Likewise, assets jointly owned with a right of survivorship can bypass the probate process.



Another popular way to bypass probate is through the use of a trust.



Overall, minimizing costs associated with the probate process can be prudent. Accumulated expenses can include court fees, professional service hours, and administration costs. Having an easily authenticated will is one of the most common ways to quickly move through a probate process and efficiently distribute assets appropriately.
What Is Probate Court?  

Probate court is a segment of the judicial system that oversees the execution of wills as well as the handling of estates, conservatorships, and guardianships. Probate court also handles the commitment of a person with psychiatric disabilities to institutions designed to help them.



Probate court ensures that a will is executed according to the wishes of the individual who has passed away. It makes sure that all debts owed are paid and that assets are distributed properly. The court oversees and usually must approve the activities of the executor appointed to handle these matters.



In addition, when a will is contested, the probate court is responsible for ruling on the authenticity of the document and the cognitive stability of the person who signed it. If no will exists, the court also decides who receives the decedent's assets, based on the laws of the jurisdiction in place.





Key Takeaways

Probate court handles legal matters like estates, guardianships, and wills.Probate lawyers are often hired to manage probate matters and navigate probate courts.In many cases, probate court cases can proceed with or without a will in hand.The probate court process starts when the executor or family member files a petition for probate, the will, and a copy of the death certificate.The probate court process ends when the executor completes all necessary tasks, provides an accounting statement to the court, and the court approves it.


   Understanding Probate Court  

The term "probate" is used to describe the legal process that involves the handling of the estate of a recently deceased person. Broadly, the role of the court is to make sure that their debts are paid and their assets are distributed to the correct beneficiaries, according to the decedent's wishes as detailed in a will.



Probate is multifaceted in that it refers to the overall legal process of dealing with a deceased person's assets and debt, the court that manages the process, and the actual distribution of assets.



Individual states have rules concerning probate and probate courts. Some states do not use the term "probate" but instead refer to a surrogate’s court, orphan’s court, or chancery court. It's important to review the laws regarding probate in the state in which a will is to be probated before death (if you're creating a will) and after death (if you are a beneficiary or executor).



Many local courts offer complete instructions concerning probate. For example, the New York State Unified Court System allows individuals to search by their county and type of court to begin the probate process.


   What Goes Through Probate?  

Probate is usually necessary for property that is titled only in the name of the person who passes away. For example, that might include a car or real estate. It's also usually necessary for an interest in any property that is owned as tenants in common.


  Assets That Don't Require Probate  

Here are some of the assets that don't need to be probated, according to legal information expert, AllLaw.



IRA or 401(k) retirement accounts with designated beneficiaries
Life insurance policies with designated beneficiaries
Pension plan distributions
Assets assigned to a living trust
Funds in a payable-on-death (POD) bank account and payable-on-death U.S. savings bonds
Securities designated as transfer-on-death (TOD)
Wages, salary, or commissions owed to the deceased (up to an allowable limit)
Vehicles intended for immediate family (under state law)
Household goods and other items intended for immediate family (under state law)


   The Probate Court Process  

A formal probate process involves specific, usually straightforward steps. Issues that may arise during the process can lengthen the time it lasts until it is closed by the court.



Probate is initiated when a person files a petition for probate with the state's probate court system. The petition is normally filed by the executor of the deceased's will or by a member of the deceased's family.
The person filing the petition must also file the original will and a copy of the certified death certificate.
In the initial hearing, the probate court appoints the executor for the deceased's estate. The executor (or administrator, if there's no will) is responsible for distributing the deceased's estate to the proper beneficiaries, among other administrative duties. The court provides the executor with Letters of Testamentary (or Letters of Administration). They give the executor the authority to pay bills, sell assets, and perform other tasks. 
Before accepting the Letters and performing their duty, the executor may need to post bond (to protect the estate from any adverse consequences of their actions).
A second hearing may be required if any objections concerning the will are raised.
The executor then proceeds to notify those to whom the deceased owed money (creditors), notify beneficiaries, inventory the deceased's assets, pay outstanding bills, sell assets if necessary to pay what's owed, pay taxes, and file a final tax return.
Once those tasks are completed, the executor distributes the remaining assets to the beneficiaries, according to the will. 
The probate court oversees the executor's activities and handles issues that may arise. For instance, if the executor objects to a claim, the court will hear the evidence and make a ruling. 
The executor normally must provide an accounting of exactly how the estate was handled. Once this is approved by the court, it closes the probate process.



An informal probate process, also called summary probate, that requires less court oversight can be used if the estate is small, the will is simple, all parties are in agreement with it, and no objections are raised. The will and death certificate still must be filed in this instance.


  Probate Court Without a Will  

When a person dies with no will, the probate court distributes that person's assets to their next of kin, according to the relevant state's probate laws. This is known as the law of intestate succession. It outlines the distribution of assets between surviving spouses, children, grandchildren, siblings, parents, aunts, uncles, and other relatives.






With or without a will, going to probate court is likely required to settle a decedent's affairs. However, there are ways to simplify the probate process prior to death, including creating a living trust, naming beneficiaries clearly on all investment, bank, and retirement accounts, and establishing joint ownership for certain assets.


   The Costs of Probate Court  

A probate lawyer is often hired to help deal with the intricacies of probate. Other costs of probate can include court filing fees, costs for publishing a death notice, and an executor's fees.



If the estate is large and complicated, the assistance of an accountant may be needed. The deceased's estate lawyer may also need to be involved.



Costs will mount the longer the probate process takes to complete. In general, the process can take six months to a couple of years.


   How to Avoid Probate Court  

Understandably, people want to avoid or shorten the probate process, if possible. This can be done by setting up a living trust, assigning your assets to it, and designating beneficiaries for those assets. A living trust is an estate planning tool that can help you avoid the usually lengthy, sometimes costly, and always public nature of probate.



You can keep financial assets out of probate court by designating beneficiaries for them in the account paperwork held by, for example, your life insurance company, retirement plan, brokerage, and bank. This way, funds will flow directly to the beneficiaries upon your death.



In addition, to avoid probate of money you'd like to leave to beneficiaries, consider gifts during your lifetime. People can give individuals tax-free money in the form of gifts, as defined by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). In 2022, the maximum allowable amount is $16,000 ($17,000 in 2023) per person before a gift tax return must be filed.


   Frequently Asked Questions  


What Happens at a Probate Court Hearing?
At a probate court hearing, the judge will list the responsibilities of the executor of the will, including contacting any beneficiaries and creditors, appraising the deceased's assets, and paying any outstanding creditors and taxes. Usually, at the second court hearing, the judge will ensure all these items have been done and close out the estate so that the transfers of money and other assets in the estate may begin.




Do You Have to Go to Probate Court When Someone Dies?
Each state has specific probate laws to determine what's required. Unless someone has no assets or descendants when they die, probate is usually still required in order to settle the deceased's remaining affairs, including debts, assets, and paying their final bills and taxes.




How Do You Avoid Probate Court?
While it can be tricky to avoid probate court completely, some ways to avoid probate include creating a living trust, naming beneficiaries clearly on all investment, bank, and retirement accounts, and establishing joint ownership for certain assets.




How Long Does Probate Take?
The length of time varies depending on the deceased person's assets, the complexity of their will, and other factors. For example, the executor may have to liquidate assets to pay creditors. Selling a home or other property for this purpose can take time. Generally speaking, probate can go from a few weeks to a few years.




How Do You File an Objection in Probate Court?
The probate court website usually has forms available to file an objection, whether it's an objection to tampering with the will, forgery, or something else. These forms must be submitted at the beginning of the process.


   The Bottom Line  

After someone passes away, the grief over their loss can be all-consuming for the remaining family and friends. Unfortunately, the probate process can add an additional burden; one that's financial and administrative. With or without a will, the probate process is essential to understand to ensure that all of one's affairs are in order prior to death.
What Is Procurement?  

Procurement is obtaining or purchasing goods or services, typically for business purposes. Procurement is most commonly associated with businesses because companies must solicit services or purchase goods, usually on a relatively large scale. It can also include the overall procurement process, which is critically important for companies leading up to a final purchasing decision. Companies can be on both sides of the procurement process as buyers or sellers though here we mainly focus on the side of the soliciting company.





Key Takeaways

Procurement is the process of purchasing goods or services, usually in reference to business spending.Business procurement requires preparation, solicitation, and payment processing, which usually involves several areas of a company.Procurement expenses can fall into several different categories, depending on the procurement demand.Competitive bidding is usually a part of most large-scale procurement processes involving multiple bidders.The strategic procurement process is different from purchasing, which is transactional.


   How Procurement Works  

Procurement and procurement processes can require a substantial portion of a company's resources to manage. Procurement budgets typically provide managers with a specific value they can spend to procure the goods or services they need. The procurement process is often a vital part of a company's strategy because the ability to purchase specific materials or services can determine if operations will be profitable.



In many cases, procurement processes will be dictated by company standards, often centralized by controls from the accounts payable (AP) division of accounting. The procurement process includes the preparation and processing of a demand and the end receipt and approval of payment.



Comprehensively, this can involve purchase planning, standards, specifications determination, supplier research, selection, financing, price negotiation, and inventory control. As such, many large companies may require support from a few different areas of a company for successful procurement.



There are several steps involved in the procurement process:



Choosing the goods and services required
Fill out a purchase request and request quotes from various suppliers
Work out a price and contract with the vendor, and complete the purchase order
Receive the shipment and submit payment






Procurement can involve support from several areas of a company.


   Competitive Bidding and Procurement  

Competitive bidding is a part of most business deals involving multiple bidders. The competitive bidding process for goods is usually more simplified than for services. Procurement is also the term used for purchasing goods and services on behalf of the government, which has its own bidding processes and requirements.



Competitive bidding for all types of goods generally involves proposals that detail the per-unit price, shipping, and delivery terms. Competitive bidding for the procurement of services can be more complex since it may involve individuals, technology services, operational procedures, client servicing, training, service fees, and more.



In each case, the solicitor of bids chooses the supplier they want to work with based on both operational business aspects as well as costs. The solicitor is responsible for accounting for expenses depending on the goods or services involved. Government agencies and large companies may choose to solicit procurement proposals on an annual or scheduled basis to ensure that they maintain the best relationships for their business.


   Types of Procurement  

There are a few different kinds of procurement that businesses can undertake. These include:



Direct Procurement: This kind of procurement involves any goods and services used during the production process. This includes raw materials, machinery, and other components.Indirect Procurement: Goods and services purchased under this type of procurement are used to meet the operational needs of a business. As such, they don't contribute to the company's revenues. This may include office equipment and supplies, furnishings, and marketing.Goods Procurement: Any physical products that businesses acquire through the procurement process to serve the company's needs. This can be direct, such as raw materials, or indirect, such as office supplies.Services Procurement: Like goods procurement, there are two types of services procurement: direct and indirect. Both rely on services provided by people. Direct services procurement may refer to labor directly involved in the business. Indirect services procurement can include things like on-site security to safeguard the premises.


   Procurement vs. Purchasing  

Procurement and purchasing are both processes that involve the exchange of goods and services, so it isn't uncommon for people to confuse the two. But there are certain distinctions between the two.



For instance, procurement is more of a strategic process involving acquiring goods and services. It emphasizes the value of products and uses a series of steps (as outlined above) to complete the acquisition. Businesses generally take a proactive approach when they submit procurement orders. Doing so allows them to identify and fill future deficiencies before they are needed.



Purchasing, on the other hand, is a transactional process. As such, it involves buying goods and services. When an entity purchases goods and services, it places greater importance on price rather than value. Purchasing is usually a reactive process that satisfies a more immediate need.



The table below highlights the comparison between these two processes.









Procurement vs. Purchasing




Procurement 
Purchasing 


Strategic process 
Transactional process 


Greater emphasis on value  
More importance on price 


Proactive approach 
Reactive approach 


Spot and fill future deficiencies 
Satisfies immediate need(s) 





   Accounting for Procurement  

Procurement costs are generally integrated into the financial accounting of a business, as procurement involves acquiring goods and/or services for the revenue goals of the business. As such, some companies may hire a chief procurement officer (CPO for short) to lead these efforts. The CPO:



Oversees procurement standardsWorks with accounts payable to ensure procurement standard integration and efficient paymentServes on procurement teams making procurement decisions when there are multiple competitive bids



Procurement processing can be divided and analyzed from several angles. Companies and industries have different ways of managing the procurement of direct and indirect costs. Goods companies, as compared with services companies, will also have different ways of managing costs.


  Direct vs. Indirect Procurement Costs  

Direct spending refers to anything related to the cost of goods sold and production, including all items that are part of finished products. For manufacturing companies, this can range from raw materials to components and parts. For merchandising companies, this will include the cost of purchasing merchandise from a wholesaler for sales.



For service-based companies, direct costs will primarily be the hourly labor costs of employees performing services. Procurement for items pertaining to the cost of goods sold directly affects a company’s gross profit.



By contrast, indirect procurement involves non-production-related purchases. These are purchases a company uses to facilitate its operations. Indirect procurement can involve a broad range of purchases, including office supplies, marketing materials, advertising campaigns, consulting services, and more. Companies will generally have different budgets and processes for managing direct costs compared to indirect costs.


  Goods vs. Services Procurement Accounting  

Procurement is part of the expense process for all types of companies, but goods and services companies account for revenues and costs differently. As such, accounting for procured goods will also differ from accounting for procured services.



Companies focused on goods must deal with procuring those goods as inventory. These companies place a lot of importance on supply chain management. Service-based companies provide services as their primary revenue generator, so they do not necessarily rely as heavily on a supply chain for inventory although they may need to purchase goods for technology-based services.



In general, the cost of sales for many service companies is based on the hourly labor cost of employees providing the service, so procurement as a direct expense is not a major factor. However, service-based companies will usually have higher relative indirect costs because they typically deal with their own procurement as an indirect expense through marketing.




What Is Meant By Procurement?
Procurement is the process involved in obtaining or sourcing something that is needed. Businesses procure supplies and raw materials, while governments may procure contractors or service providers.




Is Procurement the Same As Purchasing?
While they are similar, procurement typically deals with finding suppliers and sourcing materials, whereas purchasing involves the costs and transactions related to buying those goods or materials.




How Is Procurement Done?
Procurement can be carried out in several ways. Organizations may submit an open tender to allow competitive bidding among potential suppliers. They may also restrict the number of bidders or establish criteria for who is allowed to bid. As an alternative to an auction process, an organization may solicit a request for proposals (RFP), where applicants compete with one another on price and competencies. Sometimes procurement is done under contract with a single source or small group of exclusive suppliers.


   The Bottom Line  

Procurement is a strategic process that involves the acquisition of goods and services. Unlike purchasing, it consists of a series of steps that are usually taken by businesses to meet certain needs, such as production, inventory, and sales. It often involves a series of documents like demands and receipts for payment. But don't confuse procurement with purchasing. Although the two terms are often used interchangeably, they are very different. Unlike procurement, purchasing is transactional and normally fulfills more immediate needs.
What Is Procyclic?  

Procyclic describes a state where the behavior and actions of a measurable product or service move in tandem with the cyclical condition of the economy.





Key Takeaways

Procyclic refers to a condition of a positive correlation between the value of a good, a service, or an economic indicator and the overall state of the economy.Some examples of procyclic economic indicators are gross domestic product (GDP), labor, and marginal cost.Policies and fiscal behavior typically fall into procyclic patterns in periods of boom and bust.


   Understanding Procyclic  

Economic indicators can have one of three different relationships to the economy: Countercyclic (indicator and economy move in opposite directions), acyclic (indicator has no relevance to the state of the economy), or procyclic.



Procyclic refers to a condition of a positive correlation between the value of a good, a service, or an economic indicator and the overall state of the economy. In other words, the value of the good, service, or indicator tends to move in the same direction as the economy, growing when the economy grows and declining when the economy declines.



Some examples of procyclic economic indicators are gross domestic product (GDP), labor, and marginal cost. Most consumer goods are also considered procyclic because consumers tend to buy more discretionary goods when the economy is in good shape.



Policies and fiscal behavior typically fall into procyclic patterns in periods of boom and bust. When there is economic prosperity, many members of the population will engage in behavior that not only falls in line with that growth but serves to extend the period.


   Procyclic Example  

In the lead up to the housing and financial crisis of the late 2000s, there was a collective expectation for ongoing financial gain. Consumers engaged in more spending, borrowers sought mortgages for homes that might have been outside of their means to repay, financial institutions encouraged such behavior, and government policies did little to deter such trends. As long as the market collectively supported the “boom” nature and fed the economy, this continued until the bad debt and other issues became too great to ignore, and the markets collapsed.



The economic climate changed when the “bust” part of the cycle hit. Consumer spending dropped, banks and loan companies clamped down on their lending practices, foreclosures spread across the market on homes with lapsed mortgages, and federal legislation was quickly drafted to prevent it all from happening again. These were all procyclic responses to the action at hand.



The further the economy moves away from that crisis period, the more spending increases, and certain legislation that was deemed onerous by financial institutions might be questioned. Such behavior is procyclic because, unless there is some motivation to act differently, there is a desire to remove what would be seen as constraints on choice when the market seems prosperous.



The trouble with strictly procyclic reactions to the economy is they do not allow for forward-thinking behavior that would prepare the market for the declines that will eventually return. If preventative legislation is only supported during times of crisis, in all likelihood, the behavior that contributed to the collapse of the market will be repeated.
What Is the Producer Price Index (PPI)?  

The Producer Price Index (PPI) measures the average change over time in the prices domestic producers receive for their output. It is a measure of inflation at the wholesale level that is compiled from thousands of indexes measuring producer prices by industry and product category. The index is published monthly by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). The PPI is different from the consumer price index (CPI), which measures the changes in the price of goods and services paid by consumers.





Key Takeaways

The Producer Price Index measures the change in the prices paid to U.S. producers of goods and services.The PPI is a measure of wholesale inflation, while the Consumer Price Index measures the prices paid by consumers.The index is published monthly by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.PPI indexes are calculated based on products and services, industries, and the buyer's economic identity, which are used to calculate the overall monthly change in final demand PPI.The indexes calculate price changes in private contracts based on suppliers' input prices.







Producer Price Index (PPI) 


   Understanding the Producer Price Index (PPI)  

The PPI measures inflation (or, much less commonly, deflation) from the perspective of the product manufacturer or service supplier. The price trends for producers and consumers are unlikely to diverge for long since producer prices heavily influence those charged to consumers and vice versa. In the short term, inflation at the wholesale and retail levels may differ as a result of distribution costs, as well as government taxes and subsidies.



The BLS releases the PPI along with its constituent industry and product indexes during the second week of the month following the reference date of the survey. It is based on approximately 100,000 monthly price quotes reported voluntarily online by more than 25,000 systematically sampled producer establishments.





0.8%

The PPI reading for the 12-month period ending July 2023 on an unadjusted basis. The index for final demand increased by 0.3% in July 2023 and remained unchanged in June 2023.



The survey covers the entirety of the U.S. output of goods and about 69% by value of services. Its component product and services indexes are weighted based on the value of the category's output to calculate the overall change in producer prices.



The PPI is used to forecast inflation and to calculate escalator clauses in private contracts based on the prices of key inputs. It is also vital for tracking price changes by industry and comparing wholesale and retail price trends.


   Producer Price Index (PPI) vs. Consumer Price Index (CPI)  

Both PPI and CPI are important economic measures because they point to monthly changes in prices. But they reflect prices from different standpoints. As noted above, the PPI measures prices based on the first commercial transaction for a product or service. This is in contrast to the consumer price index, which measures price changes encountered by the consumer.



The CPI's focus is on the final sale. But these two indexes don't just differ based on the type of prices measured. There are also important compositional differences between the PPI and the CPI that can be considered. These distinctions are based on what's included and left out of each.






Until 1978, the PPI was known as the wholesale price index (WPI). In 1982, the BLS reset all Producer Price Index bases to 100.



For example, the PPI does not measure price changes for aggregate housing costs, while the CPI's shelter category including the imputed owners' equivalent of rents accounts for one-third of the overall index. Meanwhile, the PPI incorporates a weighting of nearly 18% for healthcare products and services, not far off the sector's weight of nearly 20% in the U.S. gross domestic product (GDP). In contrast, the CPI's weighting for medical care is below 9%. That's because it doesn't measure third-party healthcare reimbursements.



Another key distinction is that the PPI does not include the price of imported goods, unlike the CPI. Conversely, the PPI includes export prices while the CPI does not.


   How Producer Price Index (PPI) Numbers Are Presented  

The BLS produces more than 10,000 product and industry price indexes each month, which it then uses to calculate the PPI. They're published with and without seasonal adjustments and are divided into three categories: industry-level classification, commodity classification, and first demand-intermediate demand.


  Industry-Level Classification  

The PPI includes indexes for producer prices received in each of more than 500 industry categories based on output sold outside the industry. The categories are compatible with those used in other releases to report industry-level data on production, employment, earnings, and productivity.


  Commodity Classification  

Commodity classification disregards the producer's industry to group output based on the nature of the product or service. The PPI report publishes more than 3,800 commodity price indexes for goods and some 900 for services.


  Final Demand-Intermediate Demand  

The first demand-intermediate demand indexes use the commodity indexes organized by product to measure producer prices based on the economic identity of the buyers and whether the goods sold require further processing.



The PPI report publishes more than 600 FD-ID indexes. The final demand indexes, as distinct from the intermediate demand ones, are then used to arrive at the headline PPI number, which reflects the PPI for final demand.




What Is in the Producer Price Index?
The Producer Price Index "measures the average change over time in the selling prices that domestic producers receive for their output. The prices included in the PPI are from the first commercial transaction for many products and some services."




What's the Difference Between the Producer Price Index and the Consumer Price Index?
Both the CPI and the PPI measure inflation. PPI measures inflation from the viewpoint of the producers; the average selling price they receive for their output over a period of time. The CPI measures inflation from the viewpoint of the consumer; the value of a basket of goods and services that consumers have bought over a period of time.




What Does the Producer Price Index Predict?
The Producer Price Index looks at inflation from the viewpoint of industry and business. This method measures price changes before consumers purchase final goods and services. As a result, many analysts consider it to predict inflation before the CPI.


   The Bottom Line  

The Producer Price Index is a measure of the change in prices that domestic producers receive for their goods and services. The index is a measure of wholesale inflation and an indicator of the health of the economy.
What Is a Producer Surplus?  

Producer surplus is the difference between how much a person would be willing to accept for a given quantity of a good versus how much they can receive by selling the good at the market price. The difference or surplus amount is the benefit the producer receives for selling the good in the market.



A producer surplus is generated by market prices in excess of the lowest price producers would otherwise be willing to accept for their goods. This may relate to Walras' law.





Key Takeaways

Producer surplus is the total amount that a producer benefits from producing and selling a quantity of a good at the market price.The total revenue that a producer receives from selling their goods minus the marginal cost of production equals the producer surplus.Producer surplus plus consumer surplus represents the total economic benefit to everyone in the market from participating in production and trade of the good.












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   Understanding Producer Surplus  

A producer surplus is shown graphically below as the area above the producer's supply curve that it receives at the price point (P(i)), forming a triangular area on the graph. The producer’s sales revenue from selling Q(i) units of the good is represented as the area of the rectangle formed by the axes and the red lines, and is equal to the product of Q(i) times the price of each unit, P(i).



Because the supply curve represents the marginal cost of producing each unit of the good, the producer’s total cost of producing Q(i) units of the good is the sum of the marginal cost of each unit from 0 to Q(i) and is represented by the area of the triangle under the supply curve from 0 to Q(i).



Subtracting the producer’s total cost (the triangle under the supply curve) from his total revenue (the rectangle) shows the producer’s total benefit (or producer surplus) as the area of the triangle between P(i) and the supply curve.


  The Formula for Producer Surplus Is:  

Total revenue - marginal cost = producer surplus



The size of the producer surplus and its triangular depiction on the graph increases as the market price for the good increases, and decreases as the market price for the good decreases.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019


   Special Considerations  

Producers would not sell products if they could not get at least the marginal cost to produce those products. The supply curve as depicted in the graph above represents the marginal cost curve for the producer.



From an economics standpoint, marginal cost includes opportunity cost. In essence, an opportunity cost is a cost of not doing something different, such as producing a separate item. The producer surplus is the difference between the price received for a product and the marginal cost to produce it.



Because marginal cost is low for the first units of the good produced, the producer gains the most from producing these units to sell at the market price. Each additional unit costs more to produce because more and more resources must be withdrawn from alternative uses, so the marginal cost increases and the net producer surplus for each additional unit is lower and lower.





Producer Surplus vs. Profit

Profit is a closely-related concept to producer surplus; however, they differ slightly. Economic profit takes revenues and subtracts both fixed and variable costs. Producer surplus, on the other hand, only takes off variable (marginal) costs.


   Consumer Surplus and Producer Surplus  

A producer surplus combined with a consumer surplus equals overall economic surplus or the benefit provided by producers and consumers interacting in a free market as opposed to one with price controls or quotas. If a producer could price discriminate correctly, or charge every consumer the maximum price the consumer is willing to pay, then the producer could capture the entire economic surplus. In other words, producer surplus would equal overall economic surplus.



However, the existence of producer surplus does not mean there is an absence of a consumer surplus. The idea behind a free market that sets a price for a good is that both consumers and producers can benefit, with consumer surplus and producer surplus generating greater overall economic welfare. Market prices can change materially due to consumers, producers, a combination of the two, or other outside forces. As a result, profits and producer surplus may change materially due to market prices.


   Producer Surplus Example  

Say that there are 20 companies that make widgets, each producing them at slightly different costs. ranging from $2.50 to $3.50 per widget. In the market, there is an equilibrium point where the amount of widgets supplied meets demand at $3.00.



The producer surplus would define those producers who can make widgets for less than $3.00 (down to $2.50), while those whose costs are up to $3.50 will experience a loss instead. For the lowest-cost producer, they would enjoy a surplus of $0.50 per widget.




How Do You Measure Producer Surplus?
With supply and demand graphs used by economists, the producer surplus would be equal to the triangular area formed above the supply line over to the market price. It can be calculated as the total revenue less the marginal cost of production.




What Is Producer Surplus Simply Put?
Put simply, the producer surplus is the difference between the price that companies are willing to sell products for and the prices that they actually get for them. 




What Is Total Surplus?
Total economic surplus is equal to the producer surplus plus the consumer surplus.
What Is Product Differentiation?  

Product differentiation is the key aspect or aspects that distinguish a company's products or services from the competition. Successful product differentiation leads to brand loyalty and an increase in sales.



A product differentiation strategy involves identifying and communicating the unique qualities of a product or company while highlighting the distinct differences between that product or company and its competitors. Product differentiation goes hand in hand with developing a strong value proposition so that a product or service is attractive to a target market or audience.



If successful, product differentiation can create a competitive advantage for the product's seller and ultimately build brand awareness. Examples of differentiated products might include the fastest high-speed Internet service or the most gas-efficient electric vehicle on the market.





Key Takeaways

Product differentiation depends on consumers' attention to one or more key benefits of a product or brand that make it a better choice than similar products or brands.The elements of differentiation include product design, marketing, packaging, and pricing.A product differentiation strategy should demonstrate that a product has all the features of competing choices but with additional exclusive benefits no one else offers.Companies gain a competitive advantage and market share through product differentiation.Product differentiation increases market competition and controls prices for consumers.












Investopedia / Sydney Burns


   How Product Differentiation Works  

Product differentiation is fundamentally a marketing strategy to encourage the consumer to choose one brand or product over another in a crowded field of competitors. It identifies the qualities that set one product apart from other similar products and uses those differences to drive consumer choice.



Differentiation marketing can also involve focusing on a niche market. For example, a small company might find it challenging to compete with a much larger competitor in the same industry. As a result, the smaller company might highlight exceptional service or a money-back guarantee.


  Promoting Product Differentiation  

The references to a product's differentiating qualities are reflected in the product's packaging and promotion and, often, even in its name. The cat food brand name Fancy Feast implies a high-quality cat food that cats love, and the advertising reinforces that claim. The FreshPet cat food brand highlights its use of natural ingredients. Hill's Science Diet conveys the message that the cat food was developed by animal nutrition experts.



A product differentiation strategy may require adding new functional features or might be as simple as redesigning packaging. Sometimes, differentiation marketing does not require any changes to the product but a new advertising campaign or other promotions.


  Measuring Product Differentiation  

As stated earlier, the differences between the products can be physical in nature or measurable, such as the lowest-price gym in a region. However, the differences between the products could be more abstract, for example, a car company that claims their cars are the most luxurious on the market.



Retailers and designers often spend a significant amount of advertising dollars showing their clothes on young, hip models to emphasize that their clothing is on-trend. In actuality, no company can measure or quantify the level of style their product offers.



As a result, product differentiation is often subjective since it's aimed at altering customers' evaluation of the benefits of one item compared to another. The advertising slogan, "Gets out the toughest stains" implies that a certain detergent brand is more effective than others, but the actual difference in the product compared with competing products might be minuscule or nonexistent.





Nonfunctional Attributes Matter Too

When the functional aspects of two products are identical, as in bottled water, non-functional features can be a differentiator—the packaging or bottle design, for example.


   Types of Product Differentiation  

Ideally, a product differentiation strategy should demonstrate that the product can do everything the competing choices can but with an additional benefit that is exclusive to that product. Below are a few of the most common strategies employed to differentiate a product or service.


  Price  

Price can be used to differentiate a product in two ways. Companies can charge the lowest price compared to competitors to attract cost-conscious buyers—the retailer Costco is an example. However, companies can also charge high prices to imply quality and that a product is a luxury or high-end item, such as a Bugatti sports car.


  Performance and Reliability  

Products can be differentiated based on their reliability and durability. Some batteries, for example, are reputed to have a longer life than other batteries, and consumers will buy them based on this factor.


  Location and Service  

Local businesses can differentiate themselves from their larger national competitors by emphasizing that they support the local community. A local restaurant, for example, will hire locally and may source its food and ingredients from local farmers and purveyors.


   Vertical Product Differentiation vs. Horizontal Product Differentiation  

There are two strict forms of product differentiation: horizontal and vertical. In some cases, however, a consumer's choice in a purchase may be a mix of the two.


  Vertical Differentiation  

An example of vertical differentiation is when customers rank products based on a measurable factor, such as price or quality, and then choose the most highly ranked item.



Although the measurements are objective, each customer chooses to measure a different factor. For example, a restaurant might top one customer's list because their meals are lower in calories. Another customer might choose a different restaurant because the meals are cheaper, and price is the most important factor for them.


  Horizontal Differentiation  

An example of horizontal differentiation is when customers choose between products based on personal preference rather than an objective measurement.



For example, whether someone chooses a vanilla, chocolate, or strawberry milkshake comes down to personal taste. If most of the products on the market cost about the same and have many of the same features or qualities, the purchase decision is based on subjective preference.


  Mixed Differentiation  

More complex purchases tend to consider a mix of vertical and horizontal differentiation. When buying a car, for example, a consumer may consider safety metrics and gas mileage, both of which are objective measures and examples of vertical integration. However, the consumer may also consider what colors the car is available in or the brand image. Each consumer will place a different weight of importance on each of the criteria.


   Benefits of Product Differentiation  

A differentiated product can increase brand loyalty and even survive a higher price point. If a product is perceived to be better in some way than its competitors, consumers will consider it worth the higher price.



Differentiation marketing can help companies stand out when a product isn't perceived to be much different from a competitor's, such as bottled water. The strategy might be to focus on a lower price point or that it's a locally owned business. When functional aspects of the two products are identical, nonfunctional features can be highlighted. The strategy can be an appealing change in design or styling.






A successful product differentiation campaign raises consumer interest and gives the consumer a reason to believe they need one product rather than another.


   Examples of Product Differentiation  

Companies introducing a new product often cite its cost advantages. If Company X produces a coffee maker virtually identical to that of Company Y, Company X may offer a version at a lower cost. If it comes with a reusable filter, the savings on paper filters are highlighted in packaging and advertising.



For example, product differentiation is vividly on display among the many coffee maker brands on today's market. KitchenAid coffee makers have a hefty, substantial feel and a premium price to match. Keurig differentiates itself with the ease of use of coffee pods. Amazon Basics, as always, sets an unbeatably low price point.




What Is an Example of Product Differentiation?
An example of product differentiation is when a company emphasizes a characteristic of a new product to market that sets it apart from others already on the market. For example, Tesla differentiates itself from other auto brands because their cars are innovative, high-end, and battery-operated. Also, their customer service is convenient and fast.




What Are the Elements of Product Differentiation?
Any aspect of a product can differentiate it in the mind of a consumer. Therefore, a producer or manufacturer should consider opportunities for differentiation in all of its production areas: marketing, product management, engineering, sales, customer support. For example, how can the product be marketed so that it stands out from its competitors? How can the product be engineered in a unique way? How can a brand provide superior customer support?




What Are the 3 Types of Product Differentiation?
The three types of product differentiation are vertical, horizontal, and mixed. A common example of vertical integration is when two products are similar but priced differently. However, if the price of both products was the same, one would be considered "the best" because of its perceived quality. For example, a Hanes T-shirt vs. a Gucci T-shirt.Horizontal differentiation occurs regardless of a product’s quality or price point. The customer chooses a product or brand according to personal preference, for example, Coca-Cola or Pepsi.Mixed differentiation is complex and involves factors of both vertical and horizontal differentiation. For example, a consumer may choose a new car from the same class of vehicle and consider the price points of the different brands (vertical differentiation) but also the colors of the interior (horizontal differentiation).




Why Is Product Differentiation Important?
Product differentiation is important because it allows different brands or companies to gain a competitive advantage in the market. If differentiation were unachievable, the bigger companies with economies of scale would always dominate the market because they can undercut smaller producers in terms of price. Product differentiation is also a way to control costs for the consumer by maintaining a competitive market.




What Is Apple's Differentiation Strategy?
Apple differentiates its products by pricing them higher than its competitors implying that the products are better quality and incorporate the latest technology. The company also stimulates consumer interest by introducing hype before product launches through clever marketing and distribution strategies.


   The Bottom Line  

Product differentiation is a way for products and brands to command market share based on consumer preferences. Customers choose products for various reasons whether it be price, brand image, quality or durability, taste, color, or a temporary trend.



If a product can differentiate itself from its competitors in some unique way and appeal to consumers, it will have a competitive advantage and gain market share. Therefore, product differentiation is also a way for market forces to do their work and keep prices down for the consumer.
What Is the Product Life Cycle?  

The term product life cycle refers to the length of time from when a product is introduced to consumers into the market until it's removed from the shelves. This concept is used by management and by marketing professionals as a factor in deciding when it is appropriate to increase advertising, reduce prices, expand to new markets, or redesign packaging. The process of strategizing ways to continuously support and maintain a product is called product life cycle management.





Key Takeaways

A product life cycle is the amount of time a product goes from being introduced into the market until it's taken off the shelves.There are four stages in a product's life cycle—introduction, growth, maturity, and decline.A company often incurs higher marketing costs when introducing a product to the market but experiences higher sales as product adoption grows. Sales stabilize and peak when the product's adoption matures, though competition and obsolescence may cause its decline. The concept of product life cycle helps inform business decision-making, from pricing and promotion to expansion or cost-cutting.












Investopedia / Xiaojie Liu


   How the Product Life Cycle Works  

Products, like people, have life cycles. The life cycle of a product is broken into four stages—introduction, growth, maturity, and decline.



A product begins with an idea, and within the confines of modern business, it isn't likely to go further until it undergoes research and development (R&D) and is found to be feasible and potentially profitable. At that point, the product is produced, marketed, and rolled out. Some product life cycle models include product development as a stage, though at this point, the product has not yet been brought to customers.



As mentioned above, there are four generally accepted stages in the life cycle of a product. Here are details about each one.


  Introduction Stage  

The introduction phase is the first time customers are introduced to the new product. A company must generally includes a substantial investment in advertising and a marketing campaign focused on making consumers aware of the product and its benefits, especially if it is broadly unknown what the item will do.



During the introduction stage, there is often little-to-no competition for a product, as competitors may just be getting a first look at the new offering. However, companies still often experience negative financial results at this stage as sales tend to be lower, promotional pricing may be low to drive customer engagement, and the sales strategy is still being evaluated.


  Growth Stage  

If the product is successful, it then moves to the growth stage. This is characterized by growing demand, an increase in production, and expansion in its availability. The amount of time spent in the introduction phase before a company's product experiences strong growth will vary from between industries and products.



During the growth phase, the product becomes more popular and recognizable. A company may still choose to invest heavily in advertising if the product faces heavy competition. However, marketing campaigns will likely be geared towards differentiating its product from others as opposed to introducing the goods to the market. A company may also refine its product by improving functionality based on customer feedback.



Financially, the growth period of the product life cycle results in increased sales and higher revenue. As competition begins to offer rival products, competition increases, potentially forcing the company to decrease prices and experience lower margins.


  Maturity Stage  

The maturity stage of the product life cycle is the most profitable stage, the time when the costs of producing and marketing decline. With the market saturated with the product, competition now higher than at other stages, and profit margins starting to shrink, some analysts refer to the maturity stage as when sales volume is "maxed out".



Depending on the good, a company may begin deciding how to innovate its product or introduce new ways to capture a larger market presence. This includes getting more feedback from customers, and researching their demographics and their needs.



During the maturity stage, competition is at the highest level. Rival companies have had enough time to introduce competing and improved products, and competition for customers is usually highest. Sales levels stabilize, and a company strives to have its product exist in this maturity stage for as long as possible.






A new product needs to be explained, while a mature product needs to be differentiated.


  Decline Stage  

As the product takes on increased competition as other companies emulate its success, the product may lose market share and begin its decline. Product sales begin to drop due to market saturation and alternative products, and the company may choose to not pursue additional marketing efforts as customers may already have determined whether they are loyal to the company's products or not.



Should a product be entirely retired, the company will stop generating support for it and will entirely phase out marketing endeavors. Alternatively, the company may decide to revamp the product or introduce a next-generation, completely overhauled model. If the upgrade is substantial enough, the company may choose to re-enter the product life cycle by introducing the new version to the market.



The stage of a product's life cycle impacts the way in which it is marketed to consumers. A new product needs to be explained, while a mature product needs to be differentiated from its competitors.


   Advantages of Using the Product Life Cycle  

The product life cycle better allows marketers and business developers to better understand how each product or brand sits with a company's portfolio. This enables the company to internally shift resources to specific products based on those products' positioning within the product life cycle.



For example, a company may decide to reallocate market staff time to products entering the introduction or growth stages. Alternatively, it may need to invest more cost of labor in engineers or customer service technicians as the product matures.



The product life cycle naturally tends to have a positive impact on economic growth, as it promotes innovation and discourages supporting outdated products. As products move through the life cycle stages, companies that use the product life cycle can realize the need to make their products more effective, safer, efficient, faster, cheaper, or better suited to client needs.


   Limitations of Using the Product Life Cycle  

Despite its utility for planning and analysis, the product life cycle doesn't pertain to every industry and doesn't work consistently across all products. Consider popular beverage lines whose primary products have been in the maturity stage for decades, while spin-offs or variations of these drinks from the same company have failed.



The product life cycle also may be artificial in industries with legal or trademark restrictions. Consider the new patent term of 20 years from which the application for the patent was filed in the United States. Though a drug may be just entering their growth stage, it may be adversely impacted by competition when its patent ends regardless of which stage it is in.



Another unfortunate side effect of the product life cycle is prospective planned obsolescence. When a product enters the maturity stage, a company may be tempted to begin planning its replacement. This may be the case even if the existing product still holds many benefits for customers and still has a long shelf life. For producers who tend to introduce new products every few years, this may lead to product waste and inefficient use of product development resources.






Notification messages such as Microsoft's alert that Windows 8.1 will sunset on January 2023 is an example of decline. Due to obsolescence of the operating system, Microsoft is choosing to no longer support the product and instead focus resources on newer technologies.


   Product Life Cycle vs. BCG Matrix  

A similar analytical tool to determine the market positioning of a product is the Boston Consulting Group (BCG) Matrix. This four-square table defines products based on their market growth and market share:



"Stars" are products with high market growth and high market share."Cash cows" are products with low market growth and high market share."Question marks," also known as "problem children," are products with high market growth and low market share."Dogs" are products with low market growth and low market share.



Although there is no direct relationship between the matrix and the product life cycle concept, both analyze a product's market growth and saturation. However, the BCG Matrix does not traditionally communicate the direction in which a product will move. For example, a product that has entered the maturity stage of the product life cycle will likely experience decline next; the BCG Matrix does not communicate this product flow in its visual depiction.


   Introduction and Maturity: Special Considerations  

Companies that have a good handle on all four stages can increase profitability and maximize their returns. Those that aren't able to may experience an increase in their marketing and production costs, ultimately leading to the limited shelf life for their product(s).



Back in 1965, Theodore Levitt, a marketing professor, wrote in the Harvard Business Review that the innovator is the one with the most to lose because so many truly new products fail at the first phase of their life cycle—the introductory stage. The failure comes only after the investment of substantial money and time into research, development, and production. This fact prevents many companies from even trying anything really new. Instead, he said, they wait for someone else to succeed and then clone the success.



To cite an established and still-thriving industry, television program distribution has related products in all stages of the product life cycle. OLED TVs are in the mature phase, programming-on-demand is in the growth stage, DVDs are in decline, and the videocassette is extinct.



Many of the most successful products on earth are suspended in the mature stage for as long as possible, undergoing minor updates and redesigns to keep them differentiated. Examples include Apple computers and iPhones, Ford's best-selling trucks, and Starbucks' coffee—all of which undergo minor changes accompanied by marketing efforts—are designed to keep them feeling unique and special in the eyes of consumers.


   Examples of Product Life Cycles  

Many brands that were American icons have dwindled and died. Better management of product life cycles might have saved some of them—or perhaps their time had just come.


  Oldsmobile  

Oldsmobile began producing cars in 1897. After merging with General Motors in 1908, the company used the first V-8 engine in 1916. By 1935, the one millionth Oldsmobile had been built. In 1984, Oldsmobile sales peaked, selling more cars in that year than any other year. By 2000, General Motors announced it would phase out the automobile and, on April 29th, 2004, the last Oldsmobile was built.


  Woolworth Co.  

In 1905, Frank Winfield Woolworth incorporated F.W. Woolworth Co., a general merchandise retail store. By 1929, Woolworth had about 2,250 outlet stores across the United States and Britain, Decades later, due to increased competition from other discount retailors, Woolworth closed the last of its variety stores in the United States in 1997 to increasingly focus on sporting goods.


  Coca-Cola  

On April 23, 1985, Coca-Cola announced a new formula for its popular beverage, referred to as "new Coke." Coca-Cola's market-share lead had been decreasing over the past 15 years, and the company decided to launch a new recipe in hopes of reinvigorating product interest. After its launch, Coca-Cola's phone line began receiving 1,500 calls per day, many of which were to complain about the change. Protest groups recruited 100,000 individuals to support their cause of bringing "old" Coke back.



A stunning 79 days after its launch, "new Coke's" full product life cycle was complete. Though the product didn't experience much growth or maturity, its introduction to the market was met with heavy protest. Less than three months after it announced its new recipe, Coca-Cola announced it would revert its product back to the original recipe.




What Are the Stages of the Product Life Cycle?
The product life cycle is defined as four distinct stages: product introduction, growth, maturity, and decline. The amount of time spent in each stage will vary from product to product, and different companies have different strategic approaches to transitioning from one phase to the next.




What Are Product Life Cycle Strategies?
Depending on the stage a product is in, a company may adopt different strategies along the product life cycle. For example, a company is more likely to incur heavy marketing and R&D costs in the introduction stage. As the product becomes more mature, companies may then turn to improving product quality, entering new segments, or increasing distribution channels. Companies also strategically approach divesting from product lines including the sale of divisions or discontinuation of goods.




What Is Product Life Cycle Management?
Product life cycle management is the act of overseeing a product's performance over the course of its life. Throughout the different stages of product life cycle, a company enacts strategies and changes based on how the market is receiving a good.




Why Is Product Life Cycle Important?
Product life cycle is important because it informs management of how its product is performing and what strategic approaches it may take. By being informed of which stage its product(s) are in, a company can change how it spends resources, which products to push, how to allocate staff time, and what innovations they want to research next.




Which Factors Impact a Product's Life Cycle?
Countless factors can affect how a product performs and where it lies within the product life cycle. In general, the product life cycle is heavily impacted by market adoption, ease of competitive entry, rate of industry innovation, and changes to consumer preferences. If it is easier for competitors to enter markets, consumers change their mind frequently about the goods they consume or the market becomes quickly saturated. Then, products are more likely to have shorter lives throughout a product life cycle.


   The Bottom Line  

Broadly speaking, almost every product sold undergoes the product life cycle. This cycle of market introduction, growth, maturity, and decline may vary from product to product—or industry to industry. However, this cycle informs a company of how to best utilize its resources, what the future outlook of their product is, and how to strategically plan for bringing new products to market.
What Is a Product Line?  

A product line is a group of related products all marketed under a single brand name that is sold by the same company. Companies sell multiple product lines under their various brand names, seeking to distinguish them from each other for better usability for consumers.



Companies often expand their offerings by adding to existing product lines because consumers are more likely to purchase products from brands with which they are already familiar. A company's blend of product lines is known as its product mix or product portfolio.





Key Takeaways

A product line is a group of connected products marketed under a single brand name by the same company.Firms sell multiple product lines under their various brand names, often differentiating by price, quality, country, or targeted demographic.Businesses often expand their offerings by adding to existing product lines because consumers are more likely to buy products from brands they already know.Product lines should be abandoned if they prove unprofitable, except in the case of a loss leader.The full portfolio of product lines is a company's product mix.












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   How Product Lines Work  

Product lines are created by companies as a marketing strategy to capture the sales of consumers who are already buying the brand. The operating principle is that consumers are more likely to respond positively to brands they know and love and will be willing to buy the new products based on their positive experiences with the brand in the past.



For example, a cosmetic company that's already selling a high-priced product line of makeup (that might include foundation, eyeliner, mascara, and lipstick) under one of its well-known brands might launch a product line under the same brand name but at a lower price point. Product lines can vary in quality, price, and target market. Companies use product lines to gauge trends, which helps them to determine which markets to target.


   The Evolution of Product Lines  

Companies add new items to their product lines, sometimes referred to as a product-line extension, to introduce brands to new customers. Consumers who have no interest in a company's sporting goods, for example, might be more interested in buying its product line of energy bars or sports beverages. Extending product lines allows companies to maximize their reach.



The way that companies use product lines is evident in the auto industry. Auto manufacturers famously produce various product lines of vehicles to reach the widest possible range of consumers.



For this reason, they produce lines of economy vehicles, environmentally-friendly vehicles, and luxury vehicles all under their leading brands. Some are marketed to families, some to individuals, and others to the young.






Expanding product lines enables a company to target consumers who are either already buying the brand or are likely to buy the brand.


   Product Line vs. Product Mix  

A product line refers to a particular good or service that a company makes and markets to customers. A food company may extend a product line by adding various similar or related products (e.g., adding mesquite BBQ flavor to its existing potato chips line), and create a more diversified product family. The product family supplies various products under the same brand name that are similar but meet slightly different needs or tastes, potentially attracting more and different customers. 



If the company branches out and starts producing pretzels, this would be a different product line altogether, involving different ingredients, processes, and knowledge to make. It would also attract many of the same, but also different customers as its potato chips line. Pretzels, however, would not be in the same product line or family. Thus, adding pretzels expands the firm's product portfolio, also known as its product mix.



The product mix is important to analyze since it can identify which market segments are experiencing what trends. Companies may thus re-brand or restructure underperforming and unprofitable products, while profitable lines may be tagged to include innovative or riskier new additions to that product family.



Mature companies often have diversified product mixes. Internal product development and acquisitions contribute to its product portfolio size over time, and larger enterprises have the infrastructure to support the marketing of a broader offering. Geographic expansion can also augment a product portfolio, with products varying in popularity among cities or countries. Apple, Inc., for example, now has a product mix that includes its wildly popular iPhone devices (within which are various generations, versions, sizes, all at different price points), the iOS app store, its line of laptop & desktop computers, software development, music streaming service, Apple TV, and so on.


   Special Considerations  

Product lines allow companies to reach regions and socioeconomic groups, sometimes even worldwide. In some cases, such as the cosmetic industry, companies also launch product lines under their best-selling brands to capture sales from consumers of various ethnic or age groups. Multinational corporations, such as restaurants, often launch product lines specifically for the countries in which they operate, as is the case with fast-food restaurants operating in Asia.






Unprofitable product lines may still be useful for a company. A loss leader strategy, for example, introduces new customers to a service or product in the hopes of building a customer base and securing future recurring revenue. The product loses money but is sold to attract new customers or sell additional products and services to those customers that are profitable in the future.


   Examples of Product Lines  

Microsoft Corporation (MSFT) as a brand sells several highly recognized product lines including Windows, MS Office, and the Xbox.
Nike Inc. (NKE) has product lines for various sports, such as track and field, basketball, and soccer. The company's product lines include footwear, clothing, and equipment.
PepsiCo (PEP) owns, among many other lines globally, Frito Lay, Gatorade, Quaker Oats, and Tropicana.
The various product lines for Starbucks Corporation (SBUX) include coffee, ice cream, and drinkware.



Note that some companies never diversify beyond a single product line. Instead, they focus their efforts on becoming a market leader in just one thing. Michelin, for instance, only produces tires. Crocs only makes rubber-based footwear. Gorilla glue only makes adhesives.


   Frequently Asked Questions  
  What Are the Main Types of Product Lines?  

While a company's product lines will depend on the particular business segment or industry that it operates in, marketing and organizational scholars have identified four different classifications of product line based on what is needed to bring that line to market. These include:



New to world: A brand new product or invention, often after research & development investment. These can be highly risky but also highly rewarding if they take off.New additions: These are new product lines added by a company to their production, but which are not necessarily new to the world. These arise as competitors enter the market.Product revision: Replacements or upgrades to existing products are the third category. An iPhone X is a wholly different product from an iPhone 4S.Reposition: Repositioning takes an existing product and begins marketing to a different audience for a completely different use-case.


  What Is Product Line Filling?  

Filling refers to adding more items to a product line family in order to address any perceived gaps in the potential customer base. For instance, adding larger sizes to a clothing line can accommodate people with bigger bodies. Having sizes that fit the vast majority of individuals would fill that product line along that dimension.


  What Is Product Line Pricing?  

Offering different versions of an otherwise same product or service at different price points can help fill a product line based on consumer spending preferences and affluence. Car manufacturers typically offer the same base model for a given year in different trim, ranging from a no-frills economy version to a decked-out luxury version with all the expensive add-ons. These price points will attract different consumers with different budgets.


  How Do You Create a Product Line?  

A company will develop a product line based on the type of business it is, its particular expertise, and its marketing strategy. Market testing, R&D, and advertising campaigns are all important to bring a product line to market. Unsuccessful product lines that are unprofitable should be abandoned in favor of viable ones.
What Is a Product Portfolio?  

A product portfolio is the collection of all the products or services offered by a company, each with a different growth rate and market share. Product portfolio analysis can provide nuanced views on a stock type, company growth prospects, profit margin drivers, income contributions, market leadership, and operational risk. This is essential for investors conducting equity research or analysts supporting internal corporate financial planning.





Key Takeaways

A product portfolio is the menu of goods or services that a firm produces and offers for sale.Analysis of product portfolios can give deep and nuanced insight into the workings of a company and its earnings potential.Product portfolios will tend to be different for mature vs. younger growth companies.


   Understanding Product Portfolios  

Product portfolios are an important element of financial analysis because they provide context and granularity to a firm and its primary operations. Investors can distinguish between long-term value stocks and short-term asset growth opportunities. Portfolio analysis of a firm’s product offerings also allows investors to nail down specific drivers of financial performance, which is necessary for effective modeling.



The various components of a portfolio also face different market dynamics and can contribute inconsistently to the bottom line. A firm’s market share can vary among the parts of its offering, with more-dominant products generally requiring different strategies from high-growth portions of the portfolio. A shifting sales mix can have significant consequences for the bottom line when margins vary across the portfolio.



Companies often rebrand or restructure underperforming and unprofitable products, a strategy that requires portfolio analysis. Products that contribute the most income are generally the most important for short-term financial analysis, and alterations to these flagship elements of the portfolio impact performance more substantially.



Apple Inc. is known for offering a variety of electronic devices, but the iPhone is the most important driver of top-line and bottom-line results. This smartphone contributed nearly 48% of total company sales as of the fourth quarter of 2022, meaning its performance is more meaningful than that of Apple’s laptops, iPad, or App Store.


   Product Portfolios and Mature Companies  

Mature companies often have diversified product portfolios, because internal product development and acquisitions contribute to portfolio size over time, and larger enterprises have the infrastructure to support the marketing of a broader offering. Geographic expansion can also augment a product portfolio, with products varying in popularity among cities or countries.



Diversification tends to limit growth potential while reducing downside risk, so mature firms tend to exhibit less operational volatility. This reduces the amount of speculation in equity valuation. The Procter & Gamble Co. is an example of such a company, with 65 different, well-known personal and household goods brands, including Bounty, Charmin, Crest, Gillette, and Tide.


   Product Portfolios and Growth Companies  

Younger firms with small portfolios are more exposed to the performance of their main products, which can lead to greater operational volatility. More risk and higher growth potential lead to more speculative equity valuation. The various components in a product portfolio often have disparate margins, because they have different price dynamics, production costs, or marketing demands.




What is a product portfolio?
A product portfolio contains every product or service that a company provides, each of which will differ with regard to growth rate and market share. Products with high profit margins will often subsidize those with low ones.




What is product portfolio analysis?
Analyzing a profit portfolio is de rigueur for the successful operation of a company. Knowing which products are making the most money, which have low profits but growth potential, and which are underperforming is crucial to economic success.




How do product portfolios differ among companies?
Each product portfolio will, of course, be specific to the company in question, meaning no two portfolios are exactly alike, though they may be similar. Older companies generally have portfolios that are more greatly diversified than younger companies, having been in business longer with more opportunity to expand. As a result, they have less operational volatility than younger companies, which may rely upon the performance of fewer products, opening them up to greater risk.


   The Bottom Line  

All the products and services offered by a company constitute its product portfolio. Analyzing a company’s product portfolio allows investors and internal analysts to assess its strengths and growth potential, as well as the risks that investing in it could entail. There are significant differences between the portfolios of mature companies and younger firms.
What Are Production Costs?  

Production costs refer to all of the direct and indirect costs businesses face from manufacturing a product or providing a service. Production costs can include a variety of expenses, such as labor, raw materials, consumable manufacturing supplies, and general overhead.





Key Takeaways


Production costs refer to the costs a company incurs from manufacturing a product or providing a service that generates revenue for the company.
Production costs can include a variety of expenses, such as labor, raw materials, consumable manufacturing supplies, and general overhead. 
Total product costs can be determined by adding together the total direct materials and labor costs as well as the total manufacturing overhead costs. 













Investopedia / Crea Taylor


   Understanding Production Costs  

Production costs, which are also known as product costs, are incurred by a business when it manufactures a product or provides a service. These costs include a variety of expenses. For example, manufacturers have production costs related to the raw materials and labor needed to create the product. Service industries incur production costs related to the labor required to implement the service and any costs of materials involved in delivering the service.



Taxes levied by the government or royalties owed by natural resource-extraction companies are also treated as production costs. Once a product is finished, the company records the product's value as an asset in its financial statements until the product is sold. Recording a finished product as an asset serves to fulfill the company's reporting requirements and inform shareholders.






To qualify as a production cost, an expense must be directly connected to generating revenue for the company.



Total product costs can be determined by adding together the total direct materials and labor costs as well as the total manufacturing overhead costs. Data like the cost of production per unit can help a business set an appropriate sales price for the finished item.



To arrive at the cost of production per unit, production costs are divided by the number of units manufactured in the period covered by those costs. To break even, the sales price must cover the cost per unit. Prices that are greater than the cost per unit result in profits, whereas prices that are less than the cost per unit result in losses.


   Types of Production Costs  

Production incurs both fixed costs and variable costs. For example, fixed costs for manufacturing an automobile would include equipment as well as workers' salaries. As the rate of production increases, fixed costs remain steady.



Variable costs increase or decrease as production volume changes. Utility expenses are a prime example of a variable cost, as more energy is generally needed as production scales up.



The marginal cost of production refers to the total cost to produce one additional unit. In economic theory, a firm will continue to expand the production of a good until its marginal cost of production is equal to its marginal product (marginal revenue). This, in turn, will tend to equal its selling price.


   Special Considerations  

There may be options available to producers if the cost of production exceeds a product's sale price. The first thing they may consider doing is lowering their production costs. If this isn't feasible, they may need to reconsider their pricing structure and marketing strategy to determine if they can justify a price increase or if they can market the product to a new demographic. If neither of these options works, producers may have to suspend their operations or shut down permanently.



Here's a hypothetical example to show how this works using the price of oil. Let's say oil prices dropped to $45 a barrel. If production costs varied between $20 and $50 per barrel, then a cash-negative situation would occur for producers with steep production costs. These companies could choose to stop production until sale prices returned to profitable levels. 




How Are Production Costs Determined?
For an expense to qualify as a production cost it must be directly connected to generating revenue for the company. Manufacturers carry production costs related to the raw materials and labor needed to create their products. Service industries carry production costs related to the labor required to implement and deliver their service. Royalties owed by natural resource-extraction companies also are treated as production costs, as are taxes levied by the government.




How Are Production Costs Calculated?
Production incurs both direct costs and indirect costs. Direct costs for manufacturing an automobile, for example, would be materials like plastic and metal, as well as workers' salaries. Indirect costs would include overhead such as rent and utility expenses. Total product costs can be determined by adding together the total direct materials and labor costs as well as the total manufacturing overhead costs. To determine the product cost per unit of product, divide this sum by the number of units manufactured in the period covered by those costs.




How Does Production Costs Differ From Manufacturing Costs?
Production cost refers to all of the expenses associated with a company conducting its business while manufacturing cost represents only the expenses necessary to make the product. Whereas production costs include both direct and indirect costs of operating a business, manufacturing costs reflect only direct costs.
What Is Production Efficiency?  

Production efficiency is an economic term describing a level at which an economy or entity can no longer produce additional amounts of a good without lowering the production level of another product. This happens when production is reportedly occurring along a production possibility frontier (PPF).



Production efficiency may also be referred to as productive efficiency. Productive efficiency similarly means that an entity is operating at maximum capacity.





Key Takeaways

Economic production efficiency refers to a level at which an entity has reached maximum capacity.The concept of economic production efficiency centers around the charting of a production possibility frontier.Analysts can also measure various types of production efficiency by using the equation: Output Rate ÷ Standard Output Rate x 100.


   Understanding Production Efficiency  

In economics, the concept of production efficiency centers around the charting of a production possibility frontier. Economists and operational analysts will typically also consider some other financial factors, such as capacity utilization and cost-return efficiency, when studying economic operational efficiency.



In general, economic production efficiency refers to a level of maximum capacity in which all resources are being fully utilized to generate the most cost-efficient product possible. At maximum production efficiency, an entity cannot produce any additional units without drastically altering its production process. The company will seek to gain added capacity capabilities by lowering the production of another product.



The Federal Reserve provides a monthly report on industrial production and capacity utilization, which can be helpful in understanding production efficiency for the manufacturing, mining, electric, and gas utilities sectors. Analysis of production efficiency also involves a close look at costs. Generally, economic production efficiency simultaneously suggests that products within scope are being created at their lowest average total cost. From this perspective, economies of scale and cost-return efficiency measures are also analyzed.



Overall, maximum production efficiency can be difficult to attain. As such, economies and many individual entities aim to find a good balance between the use of resources, the rate of production, and the quality of the goods being produced without necessarily maxing out production at full capacity. Operational managers must keep in mind that when maximum production efficiency has been reached, it is not possible to produce more goods without drastically altering portfolio production.


   Production Possibility Frontier  

The production possibility frontier is central to the economic concept of production efficiency. Theoretically, variables are charted along the x- and y-axis showing maximum production levels that can be achieved through simultaneous production. Maximum economic production efficiency, therefore, includes all of the points along the production possibility frontier curve.



The PPF curve shows the maximum production level for each good. If an economy or entity cannot make more of a good without lowering the production of another good, then a maximum level of production has been reached.






   Measuring Efficiency  

In addition to operating based on a PPF, analysis of production efficiency can also take other forms. Analysts can measure efficiency by dividing output over a standard output rate and multiplying by 100 to get a percentage. This calculation can be used to analyze the efficiency of a single employee, groups of employees, or sections of an economy at large.



The formula looks like this: 



﻿




Efficiency


=


Output Rate


÷


Standard Output Rate


×


1


0


0



\text{Efficiency}=\text{Output Rate}\div\text{Standard Output Rate}\times100


Efficiency=Output Rate÷Standard Output Rate×100﻿



The standard output rate is a rate of maximum performance or the maximum volume of work produced per unit of time using a standard method. When maximum production efficiency is achieved for any sample under analysis then production efficiency will be at 100%. If an economy is producing efficiently, then it will have a production efficiency of 100%.


   Productivity vs. Efficiency  

Productivity serves as a measurement of output, normally expressed as some units per amount of time, such as 100 units per hour. Efficiency in production most often relates to the costs per unit of production rather than just the number of units produced. Productivity vs. efficiency can also involve analysis of economies of scale. Entities seek to optimize production levels to achieve efficient economies of scale which helps to lower per-unit costs and increase per-unit returns.


   Production Efficiency and the Service Industry  

The concepts of production efficiency typically apply to manufacturing but can also be used within the service industry. To perform a service, resources are required, such as the use of human capital and time, even if no other supplies are required. In these cases, efficiency can be measured by the ability to complete a particular task or goal in the shortest amount of time with an optimized level of quality output.
What Is the Production Possibility Frontier (PPF)?  

The production possibility frontier (PPF) is a curve on a graph that illustrates the possible quantities that can be produced of two products if both depend upon the same finite resource for their manufacture. The PPF is also referred to as the production possibility curve.



PPF also plays a crucial role in economics. For example, it can demonstrate that a nation's economy has reached the highest level of efficiency possible.





Key Takeaways

When producing goods, opportunity cost is what is given up when you take resources from one product to produce another. The maximum amount that can be produced is illustrated by a curve on a graph.The production possibility frontier (PPF) is above the curve, illustrating impossible scenarios given the available resources.The PPF demonstrates that the production of one commodity may increase only if the production of the other commodity decreases.The PPF is a decision-making tool for managers deciding on the optimum product mix for the company.












Joules Garcia / Investopedia


   Understanding the Production Possibility Frontier (PPF)  

The PPF is the area on a graph representing production levels that cannot be obtained given the available resources; the curve represents optimal levels. Here are the assumptions involved:



A company/economy wants to produce two productsThere are limited resourcesTechnology and techniques remain constantAll resources are fully and efficiently used



If a company is deciding how much of each product to produce, it can plot points on a graph representing the number of products made using variables based on amounts of available resources. Keeping in mind that resources are limited, if the desire is to produce more of one product, resources must be taken away from the other.


  For a Business  

As resources are taken from one product and allocated to the other, another point can be plotted on the curve. When you plot the points where more of X will be produced by taking resources from Y or vice versa, a curve is generated representing the maximum amount of each product that can be produced as resources are reallocated.



For example, if a non-profit agency provides a mix of textbooks and computers, the curve may show that it can provide either 48 textbooks and six computers or 72 textbooks and two computers. This results in a ratio of about six textbooks to one computer.



The agency's leadership must determine which item is more urgently needed. In this example, the opportunity cost of providing an additional 30 textbooks equals five more computers, so it would only be able to give out one computer with 78 textbooks. If it wanted more computers, it would need to reduce the number of textbooks by six for every computer.









 Textbooks
Computers 




18
11


24
10


30
9


36
8


42
7


48
6


54
5


60
4


66
3


72
2


78
1


84
0






When this is plotted, the area below the curve represents computers and textbooks that are not being used, and the area above the curve represents donations that cannot happen with the available resources. The area above the curve is called the production possibility frontier, and the curve (the line itself) is sometimes called the opportunity cost curve. The entire graph is sometimes referred to as the production possibility curve.



The non-profit could provide 10 textbooks and 10 computers, but this is not using all of its resources. This would be represented by a plot beneath the curve. A plot would be placed above the curve in the frontier area if the company wanted to give more than its resources provided, such as 85 textbooks and no computers or 42 textbooks and 10 computers—it simply can't do it based on available resources.


  For an Economy  

This technique can be used by economists to determine the set of points at which a country’s economy is most efficiently allocating its resources to produce as many goods as possible. If the production level is on the curve, the country can only produce more of one good if it produces less of some other good.



If the economy is producing less than the quantities indicated by the curve, this signifies that resources are not being used to their full potential. In this case, it is possible to increase the production of some goods without cutting production in other areas.



The production possibility frontier demonstrates that there are limits on production, given that the assumptions hold. Therefore, each economy must decide what combination of goods and services should be produced to attain maximum resource efficiency.


   PPF on a National Scale  

Imagine a national economy that can produce only two things: wine and cotton. If points A, B, and C are plotted on a curve, it represents the economy's most efficient use of resources.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



For instance, producing five units of wine and five units of cotton (point B) is just as attainable as producing three units of wine and seven units of cotton. Point X represents an inefficient use of resources, while point Y represents a goal that the economy simply cannot attain with its present levels of resources.



As we can see, for this economy to produce more wine, it must give up some of the resources it is currently using to produce cotton (point A). If the economy starts producing more cotton (represented by points B and C), it would need to divert resources from making wine and, consequently, it will produce less wine than it is producing at point A.



Moreover, by moving production from point A to B, the economy must decrease wine production by a small amount in comparison to the increase in cotton output. But if the economy moves from point B to C, wine output will be reduced by about 50%, while the cotton output only increases by about 75%.



Keep in mind that A, B, and C all represent the most efficient allocation of resources for the economy. The nation must decide how to achieve the PPF and which combination to use. For example, if more wine is in demand, the cost of increasing its output is proportional to the cost of decreasing cotton production. Markets play an important role in telling the economy what the PPF should look like.


  How the Curve Can Change  

Consider point X in the figure above. If a country is producing at point X, it means its resources are not being used efficiently—that is, the country is not producing enough cotton or wine, given the potential of its resources. On the other hand, point Y, as we mentioned above, represents an unattainable output level.






An economy can only be produced on the PPF curve in theory. Economies constantly struggle to reach an optimal production capacity. Scarcity always forces an economy to forgo some choice in favor of another.



The only way for the curve to move outward to point Y is if there were an improvement in cotton and grape harvesting technology because the available resources—land, labor, and capital—generally remain constant. As output increased, the PPF curve would be pushed outwards. A new curve, represented in the figure on which Y would fall, would show the new optimal allocation of resources.



When the PPF shifts outwards, it implies growth in an economy. When it shifts inwards, the economy is shrinking due to a failure to allocate resources and optimal production capability. A shrinking economy could result from a decrease in supplies or a deficiency in technology.


   PPF and the Pareto Efficiency  

The Pareto Efficiency, a concept named after Italian economist Vilfredo Pareto, measures the efficiency of the commodity allocation on the PPF. The Pareto Efficiency states that any point within the PPF curve is inefficient because the total output of commodities is below the output capacity.



Conversely, any point outside the PPF curve is impossible because it represents a mix of commodities that will require more resources to produce than are currently obtainable.



Therefore, in situations with limited resources, the only efficient commodity mixes lie along the PPF curve, with one commodity on the X-axis and the other on the Y-axis.



An economy may be able to produce all of the goods and services it needs to function using the PPF as a guide. However, this may lead to an overall inefficient allocation of resources and hinder future growth when the benefits of trading with other countries are considered.




What Are the 3 Assumptions of the Production Possiblity Frontier?
There are four common assumptions in the model:The economy is assumed to have only two goods that represent the marketThe supply of resources is fixed or constantTechnology and techniques remain constantAll resources are efficiently and fully used




What Is the Importance of the Production Possibilities Frontier?
The PPF demonstrates whether resources are being used efficiently and fully when everything else remains constant. Thus, the variables can be changed to see how the curve reacts, letting you observe different outcomes.




How Do You Calculate the Production Possibility Frontier?
The simplest method is to use Excel or Google Sheets. Fill two columns with two variable values, highlight the data, and use the chart wizard. Create an XY scatter plot chart and label the X and Y axes.




What Is the Purpose of the Production Possibilities Frontier in Economics?
Because the PPF is a curve based on the data of two variables representing resources between two goods, the data can be manipulated to observe how scarcity, growth, inefficiency, efficiency, and other factors can affect production.




Why Is the Production Possibility Frontier Called the Opportunity Cost Curve?
The PPF identifies the options when making a decision. When you decide on one action, you lose the opportunity the other action provides. Thus, there is an opportunity cost; the PPF curve plots this.


   The Bottom Line  

The production possibilities curve illustrates the maximum possible output for two products when there are limited resources. It also illustrates the opportunity cost of making decisions about allocating resources.



Businesses and economists use the PPF to consider possible production scenarios by changing resource variables. The PPF allows businesses to learn how variables influence production or decide which products to manufacture. Economists can use it to learn how much of a specific good can be produced in a country while not producing another good to analyze economic efficiency levels and growth.
What Is Productivity?  

Productivity, in economics, measures output per unit of input, such as labor, capital, or any other resource. It is often calculated for the economy as a ratio of gross domestic product (GDP) to hours worked.



Labor productivity may be further broken down by sector to examine trends in labor growth, wage levels, and technological improvement. Corporate profits and shareholder returns are directly linked to productivity growth.



At the corporate level, productivity is a measure of the efficiency of a company's production process, it is calculated by measuring the number of units produced relative to employee labor hours or by measuring a company's net sales relative to employee labor hours.





Key Takeaways

Productivity, in economics, measures output per unit of input.When productivity fails to grow significantly, it limits potential gains in wages, corporate profits, and living standards.The calculation for productivity is output by a company divided by the units used to generate that output. Auto giant Toyota and online marketplace king Amazon are prime examples of businesses with an impressive level of productivity.Productivity in the workplace refers simply to how much "work" is done over a specific period of time. 












Investopedia / Danie Drankwater


   Understanding Productivity  

Productivity is the key source of economic growth and competitiveness.



A country’s ability to improve its standard of living depends almost entirely on its ability to raise its output per worker (i.e., producing more goods and services for a given number of hours of work). Economists use productivity growth to model the productive capacity of economies and determine their capacity utilization rates. This, in turn, is used to forecast business cycles and predict future levels of GDP growth.



In addition, production capacity and utilization are used to assess demand and inflationary pressures.


   4 Types of Productivity Measures  
  Labor Productivity  

The most commonly reported productivity measure is labor productivity published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. This is based on the ratio of GDP to total hours worked in the economy. Labor productivity growth comes from increases in the amount of capital available to each worker (capital deepening), the education and experience of the workforce (labor composition), and improvements in technology (multi-factor productivity growth).



However, productivity is not necessarily an indicator of the health of an economy at a given point in time. For example, in the 2009 recession in the United States, output and hours worked were both falling while productivity was growing (hours worked were falling faster than output).



Gains in productivity can occur both in recessions and in expansions—as it did in the late 1990s—so one needs to take economic context into account when analyzing productivity data.


  Total Factor Productivity  

There are many factors that impact a country’s productivity. Such things include investment in plant and equipment, innovation, improvements in supply chain logistics, education, enterprise, and competition.



The Solow residual, which is usually referred to as total factor productivity, measures the portion of an economy’s output growth that cannot be attributed to the accumulation of capital and labor.



It is interpreted as the contribution to economic growth made by managerial, technological, strategic, and financial innovations.



Also known as multi-factor productivity (MFP), this measure of economic performance compares the number of goods and services produced to the number of combined inputs used to produce those goods and services. Inputs can include labor, capital, energy, materials, and purchased services.


  Capital Productivity  

Capital as a productivity measure looks at how efficiently physical capital is being used to create goods or services. Physical capital includes tangible items, such as office equipment, labor materials, warehouse supplies, and transportation equipment (cars and trucks).



Capital productivity is calculated by subtracting liabilities from physical capital. You then divide the sales number by the difference. A higher capital productivity number shows that physical capital is being used efficiently in the creation of goods and services while a lower capital productivity number shows the opposite.


  Material Productivity  

Measuring productivity by materials looks to measure output by the materials consumed. Materials consumed can be heat, fuel, or chemicals in the process to create a good or service. It analyzes the output generated per unit of material consumed.


   Productivity and Investment  

When productivity fails to grow significantly, it limits potential gains in wages, corporate profits, and living standards. Investment in an economy is equal to the level of savings because investment has to be financed from savings. Low savings rates can lead to lower investment rates and lower growth rates for labor productivity and real wages. This is why it is feared that when savings rates in the U.S. are low, it could hurt productivity growth in the future.



A big question is what role quantitative easing and zero interest rate policies (ZIRP) have played in encouraging consumption at the expense of saving and investment. For instance, during periods of lax monetary policy where credit is accessible and affordable, consumers are more likely to incur debt and decrease savings in pursuit of mortgages, loans, or other major purchases. It is only when monetary policy is tightened and rates rise that the economy encourages saving and ultimately future investment.





Important

Productivity is largely determined by the technologies available and management's willingness and know-how to make process improvements.



Companies can also choose to spend money on short-term investments and share buybacks rather than investing in long-term capital. Some economists call for corporate tax reform to better incentivize investment in manufacturing, infrastructure, or long-term assets. For now, entities may still pursue long-term investment endeavors to maximize efficiency and productivity; however, for some, it may be easier and worth more to pursue short-term capital strategies.



Last, some economists may argue the pre-pandemic society will continue to bolster productivity growth in the future. The reasoning behind this theory is workers can now focus more on "higher-value" tasks relying on technology, mobility, and scalability. As more entities shift away from strictly on-premises operations, greater infrastructure investments are needed to handle a hybrid or fully-remote entity.


   How to Calculate Productivity  

The calculation for productivity is straightforward: divide the outputs of a company by the inputs used to produce that output. The most regularly used input is labor hours, while the output can be measured in units produced or sales.



For instance, if a factory produced 10,000 widgets last month while being billed for 5,000 hours worth of labor, productivity would simply be two widgets per hour (10,000 / 5,000).



Sales can also be used as a measure of output. For that factory, let's say 10,000 widgets translates into $1 million dollars in sales. One simply needs to divide the $1 million figure by 5,000 labor hours in order to get the productivity number: $200 in sales for each hour of labor.


   Real-World Example  

Auto manufacturing giant Toyota offers a prime example of high-end productivity in real life. The company has very humble beginnings but has grown to become one of the largest and most productive car manufacturers in the world. Its "Toyota Production System" (TPS) is one of the main reasons for that.



TPS includes a few of the following principles:



An environment of constant learning and improvementStandardizing systems for consistent qualityThe elimination (not just reduction) of waste



By enacting TPS practices into its manufacturing every day, Toyota ensures the company is continually improving, operating at a high standard, and resources are not being lost.




What Are the 4 Essential Components of Productivity?
Productivity can be looked at in a variety of ways, particularly if one is referring to the productivity of an individual or of a corporation. For an individual, the four essential components of productivity include (1) strategy, or the ability to plan, (2) focus, or the ability to pay attention to one task at a time, (3) productive choosing, or the ability to choose the most important tasks and make the right choices, and (4) consistency, the ability to work at a consistent pace and incorporate all of the above in your tasks.




What Is Productivity in the Workplace?
Productivity in the workplace refers simply to how much "work" is done over a specific period of time. Depending on the nature of the company, the output can be measured by things like customers acquired, phone calls made, and, of course, sales gained. An overarching goal of a company should be to maximize productivity without sacrificing product quality and being efficient with company resources.




How Can You Improve Personal Productivity?
Some basic ways to increase personal productivity on a daily basis include:Listing tasks in order of importance and tackling them one by oneCompleting your most hated tasks before all the othersTaking well-calculated breaks to boost overall productionExercising regularlyEating a healthy diet




What Factors Affect Productivity?
In the workplace, factors that affect productivity include compensation (salary/wage), work environment, training, career development opportunities, wellness, diversity, increased responsibility, and management quality.




How Do You Show Productivity at Work?
Ways to show productivity at work are setting goals, focusing on one task at a time, meeting deadlines, being on time, taking breaks, focusing on the largest tasks first, blocking out your calendar, having productive meetings, and delegating tasks.


   The Bottom Line  

The concept of productivity is simple: at a given level of input, there is a given level of output. More productive societies and processes will yield more output at the same level of input.



Whether it is viewed from an economic standpoint, company standpoint, or personal standpoint, being able to measure and track productivity can be crucial to long-term success.
What Is Profit?  

Profit describes the financial benefit realized when revenue generated from a business activity exceeds the expenses, costs, and taxes involved in sustaining the activity in question.



Any profits earned funnel back to business owners, who choose to either pocket the cash, distribute it to shareholders as dividends, or reinvest it back into the business.





Key Takeaways

Profit is calculated as total revenue less total expenses.For accounting purposes, companies report gross profit, operating profit, and net profit (the "bottom line").Profitable companies are attractive to investors as profits are either returned to shareholders as dividends or reinvested in the company, increasing stock value.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   What Does Profit Tell You?  

Profit is the money a business pulls in after accounting for all expenses. Whether it's a lemonade stand or a publicly-traded multinational company, the primary goal of any business is to earn money, therefore a business performance is based on profitability, in its various forms.



Some analysts are interested in top-line profitability, whereas others are interested in profitability before taxes and other expenses. Still others are only concerned with profitability after all expenses have been paid.



The three major types of profit are gross profit, operating profit, and net profit--all of which can be found on the income statement. Each profit type gives analysts more information about a company's performance, especially when it's compared to other competitors and time periods.






The word “profit” comes from the Latin noun profectus, meaning “progress,” and the verb proficere, meaning “to advance.”


   Gross, Operating, and Net Profit  

The first level of profitability is gross profit, which is sales minus the cost of goods sold. Sales are the first line item on the income statement, and the cost of goods sold (COGS) is generally listed just below it:



Gross Profit = Revenues - COGS



For example, if Company A has $100,000 in sales and a COGS of $60,000, it means the gross profit is $40,000, or $100,000 minus $60,000. Divide gross profit by sales for the gross profit margin, which is 40%, or $40,000 divided by $100,000.



Operating profit removes operating expenses like overhead and other indirect costs as well as accounting costs like depreciation and amortization. It is sometimes referred to as earnings before interest and taxes, or EBIT.



Operating Profit = Revenue - Cost of Goods Sold (COGS) - Operating Expenses - Depreciation & Amortization



Net profit furthermore removes the costs of interest and taxes paid by the business. Because it falls at the bottom of the income statement, it is sometimes referred to as the firm's "bottom line."



Net Profit = EBIT - Interest Expense - Taxes



The bottom line tells a company how profitable it was during a period and how much it has available for dividends and retained earnings. What's retained can be used to pay off debts, fund projects, or reinvest in the company.




Where Does Profit Come From?
In a capitalist system where firms compete with one another to sell their goods, the question of where profits come from has been one of interest among economists. Karl Marx, for instance, argued that profits arise from surplus labor extracted from workers by business owners. Modern thinkers suggest that profits compensate for the risk that entrepreneurs take on when starting a business. Others argue that profits arise from inefficient markets and imperfect competition.




What Is the Corporate Tax Rate on Profits?
In the U.S., the corporate tax rate on profits is currently 21% (reduced from 35% since the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act).




What Does a Company's Bottom Line Tell You?
The bottom line tells a company how profitable it was during a period and how much it has available for dividends and retained earnings. What's retained can be used to pay off debts, fund projects, or reinvest in the company. An increasing bottom line is a sign that a company is growing, while a shrinking bottom line could be a red flag.
What Is a Profit and Loss (P&L) Statement?  

Profit and loss (P&L) statement refers to a financial statement that summarizes the revenues, costs, and expenses incurred during a specified period, usually a quarter or fiscal year. These records provide information about a company’s ability or inability to generate profit by increasing revenue, reducing costs, or both. P&L statements are often presented on a cash or accrual basis. Company managers and investors use P&L statements to analyze the financial health of a company.





Key Takeaways

The profit and loss (P&L) statement is a financial statement that summarizes the revenues, costs, and expenses incurred during a specified period.The P&L statement is one of three financial statements that every public company issues quarterly and annually, along with the balance sheet and the cash flow statement.When used together, the P&L statement, balance sheet, and cash flow statement provide an in-depth look at a company’s overall financial performance.Statements are prepared using the cash method or accrual method of accounting.It is important to compare P&L statements from different accounting periods, as any changes over time become more meaningful than the numbers themselves.


   How Profit and Loss (P&L) Statements Work  

The P&L statement is one of three financial statements that every public company issues on a quarterly and annual basis, along with the balance sheet and the cash flow statement. It is often the most popular and common financial statement in a business plan, as it shows how much profit or loss was generated by a business.



P&L statements are also referred to as a(n):



Statement of profit and loss
Statement of operations
Statement of financial results or income
Earnings statement
Expense statement
Income statement



The P&L or income statement, like the cash flow statement, shows changes in accounts over a set period of time. The balance sheet, on the other hand, is a snapshot, showing what the company owns and owes at a single moment. It is important to compare the income statement with the cash flow statement since, under the accrual method of accounting, a company can log revenues and expenses before cash changes hands.



This document follows a general form as seen in the example below. It begins with an entry for revenue, known as the top line, and subtracts the costs of doing business, including the cost of goods sold, operating expenses, tax expenses, and interest expenses. The difference, known as the bottom line, is net income, also referred to as profit or earnings.






P&L management refers to how a company handles its P&L statement through revenue and cost management.












Grace Kim / Investopedia


   Comparing P&L Statements  

It is important to compare income statements from different accounting periods. The reason behind this is that any changes in revenues, operating costs, research and development (R&D) spending, and net earnings over time are more meaningful than the numbers themselves. For example, a company’s revenues may grow on a steady basis, but its expenses might grow at a much faster rate.



Comparing one company’s P&L statement with another in the same industry that is similar in size can further help investors evaluate the financial well-being of a company. For example, doing so might reveal that one company is more efficient at managing expenses and has better growth potential than the other.  






Revenues and expenses for nonprofit organizations are generally tracked in a financial report called the statement of activities. As such, this report is sometimes called a statement of financial activities or a statement of support.


   Types of Profit and Loss (P&L) Statements  

As noted above, a P&L statement may be prepared in one of two ways. These are the cash method and the accrual method.


  Cash method  

The cash method, which is also called the cash accounting method, is only used when cash goes in and out of the business. This is a very simple method that only accounts for cash received or paid. A business records transactions as revenue whenever cash is received and as liabilities whenever cash is used to pay any bills or liabilities. This method is commonly used by smaller companies as well as people who want to manage their personal finances.


  Accrual method  

The accrual accounting method records revenue as it is earned. This means that a company using the accrual method accounts for money that it expects to receive in the future. For instance, a company that delivers a product or service to its customer records the revenue on its P&L statement, even though it hasn’t yet received payment. Similarly, liabilities are accounted for even when the company hasn’t yet paid for any expenses.






You can find many templates to create a personal or business P&L statement online for free.


   Example of a Profit and Loss (P&L) Statement  

Below is the income or P&L statement for 2020 and 2021 for hypothetical company Butterfly Industries. All of the figures are in U.S. dollar (USD) millions except per-share data:



You can use the income statement to calculate several metrics, including the gross profit margin, the operating profit margin, the net profit margin, and the operating ratio. Together with the balance sheet and the cash flow statement, the income statement provides an in-depth look at a company’s financial performance.










Butterfly Industries P&L
2021
2020




Sales and revenues
 
 


Sales of Machinery, Energy & Transportation
52,142
52,694


Revenues of Financial Products  
3,042
2,962


Total sales and revenues
55,184
55,656


Operating costs
 
 


Cost of goods sold
39,767
40,727


Selling, general, and administrative expenses
5,697
5,547


Research and development expenses
2,135
2,046


Interest expense of Financial Products
624
727


Other operating (income) expenses
1,633
981


Total operating costs
49,856
50,028


Operating profit
5,328
5,628


Interest expense excluding Financial Products
484
465


Other income (expense)
239
(35)


Consolidated profit before taxes
5,083
5,128


Provision (benefit) for income taxes
1,380
1,319


Profit of consolidated companies
3,703
3,809


Equity in profit (loss) of unconsolidated affiliated companies
8
(6)


Profit of consolidated and affiliated companies
3,711
3,803


Less: Profit (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests
16
14


Profit [footnote 1: Profit attributable to common shareholders]
3,695
3,789


Profit per common share
5.99
5.87


Profit per common share — diluted [footnote 2: Diluted by assumed exercise of stock-based compensation awards using the treasury stock method]
5.88
5.75


Weighted-average common shares outstanding (millions)
 
 


- Basic
617.2
645.2


- Diluted [see footnote 2]
628.9
658.6


Cash dividends declared per common share
2.70
2.32







Why are profit and loss (P&L) statements important?
A profit and loss (P&L) statement is one of the three types of financial statements prepared by companies. The other two are the balance sheet and the cash flow statement. The purpose of the P&L statement is to show a company’s revenues and expenditures over a specified period of time, usually over one fiscal year.Investors and analysts can use this information to assess the profitability of the company, often combining this information with insights from the other two financial statements. For instance, an investor might calculate a company’s return on equity (ROE) by comparing its net income (as shown on the P&L) to its level of shareholder equity (as shown on the balance sheet).




What is the difference between a P&L statement and a balance sheet?
A company’s P&L statement shows its income, expenditures, and profitability over a period of time. The balance sheet, on the other hand, provides a snapshot of its assets and liabilities on a certain date. The balance sheet is typically presented as of the last day of the company’s fiscal year. Investors use the balance sheet to understand the financial strength of the company, comparing the amount and quality of its assets against its liabilities.




Are all companies required to prepare P&L statements?
Publicly traded companies are required to prepare P&L statements and must file their financial statements with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) so that they can be scrutinized by investors, analysts, and regulators. Companies must comply with a set of rules and guidelines known as generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) when they prepare these statements.Private companies, on the other hand, are not necessarily required to comply with GAAP. Some smaller companies, though, may even not prepare formal financial statements at all.


   The Bottom Line  

A P&L statement summarizes the revenues, costs, and expenses of a company during a specific period. It is one of three financial statements that public companies issue quarterly and annually—the other two are a balance sheet and a cash flow statement. Investors and analysts use financial statements to assess the financial health of a company and its growth potential.
What Is Profit before Tax (PBT)?  

Profit before tax is a measure that looks at a company's profits before the company has to pay corporate income tax. It essentially is all of a company’s profits without the consideration of any taxes.



Profit before tax can be found on the income statement as operating profit minus interest. Profit before tax is the value used to calculate a company’s tax obligation.


   Understanding Profit before Tax  

Profit before tax may also be referred to as earnings before tax (EBT) or pre-tax profit. The measure shows all of a company's profits before tax. A run through of the income statement shows the different kinds of expenses a company must pay leading up to the operating profit calculation. Gross profit deducts costs of goods sold (COGS). Operating profit factors in both COGS and all operational expenses. Operating profit is also known as earnings before interest and tax (EBIT). After EBIT only interest and taxes remain for deduction before arriving at net income.





Key Takeaways

Profit before tax is the same as earnings before tax.Profit before tax is used to identify how much tax a company owes.Profit before tax can also be a profitability measure that provides for greater comparability among companies that pay a varying amount of taxes.


   Calculation of Profit before Tax  

Understanding the income statement can help an analyst to have a better understanding of PBT, its calculation, and its uses. The third section of the income statement focuses in on interest and tax. These deductions are taken from the summation of the second section, which results in operating profit (EBIT). Interest is an important metric that includes both a company’s interest from investments as well as interest paid out for leverage.



Following the implementation of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), all C-Corporations have a federal tax rate of 21%.﻿﻿ All other companies are pass-throughs, which means they are taxed at the individual taxpayer’s rate.﻿﻿ Any kind of entity will also have to pay state taxes. State tax rates can vary widely by state and entity type.



The basics of calculating PBT are simple. Take the operating profit from the income statement and subtract any interest payments, then add any interest earned. PBT is generally the first step in calculating net profit but it excludes the subtraction of taxes. To calculate it in reverse you can also add taxes back into the net income.



As mentioned above, different types of companies will have different tax obligations at the federal and state level. Calculating the actual amount of taxes owed will come from the PBT.


   Usefulness of PBT  

PBT is not typically a key performance indicator on the income statement. These are usually focused on gross profit, operating profit, and net profit. However, like interest, the isolation of a company’s tax payments can be an interesting and important metric for cost efficiency management.



The pre-tax profit also determines the amount of tax a company will pay. Any credits would be taken from the tax obligation rather than deducted from the pre-tax profit.



Further, excluding the tax provides managers and stakeholders with another measure for which to analyze margins. A PBT margin will be higher than the net income margin because tax is not included. The difference in PBT margin vs. net margin will depend on the amount of taxes paid.



Also, excluding income tax isolates one variable that may have a substantial impact for a variety of reasons. For instance, C-Corps pay a federal tax rate of 21%. However, different industries may receive certain tax breaks, often in the form of credits, which can influence the tax impact overall. Renewable energy is one example. Wind, solar, and other renewables can be subject to an investment tax credit and a production tax credit.﻿﻿ Thus, comparing the PBT of companies when renewables are involved can help to provide a more reasonable assessment of profitability.


   EBIT, EBT, and EBITDA  

Working down the income statement provides a view of profitability with different types of expenses involved. Operating profit, also known as EBIT, is a measure of a company’s full operational capabilities. This includes the direct, COGS involved with manufacturing a product and the indirect operating expenses that are associated with the core business but not directly tied to it.



PBT is a part of the final steps in calculating net profit. It deducts interest from EBIT. This arrives at the taxable net income for a company.



Interest itself is often an indicator of a company’s capitalization structure. If a company has been financed with a high amount of debt, it will have higher interest payments to make. EBIT is often the best measure of full operational capabilities, while the differences in a company’s EBIT vs. PBT will show its debt sensitivity.



Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) is an extension of the well-known usefulness of EBIT as an operational profitability and efficiency measure. EBITDA adds the non-cash activities of depreciation and amortization to EBIT. Many analysts find EBITDA is a very quick way to assess a company’s cash flow and free cash flow without going through detailed calculations. EBITDA, like EBIT, is before interest and tax, so it is readily comparable. Many types of multiples comparisons will use EBITDA because of its universal usefulness. Enterprise value to EBITDA is one example.
What Is a Profit Center?  

A profit center is a branch or division of a company that directly adds or is expected to add to the entire organization's bottom line. It is treated as a separate, standalone business, responsible for generating its revenues and earnings. Its profits and losses are calculated separately from other areas of the business. Peter Drucker coined the term "profit center" in 1945.





Key Takeaways:

A profit center is a branch or division of a company that directly adds to the corporation's bottom line profitability.A profit center is treated as a separate business, with revenues accounted for on a stand alone basis.The opposite of a profit center is a cost center, a corporate division, or department that does not generate revenue.


   Understanding Profit Centers  

Profit centers are crucial to determining which units are the most and the least profitable within an organization. They function by differentiating between certain revenue-generating activities. This facilitates a more accurate analysis and cross-comparison among divisions. A profit center analysis determines the future allocation of available resources and whether certain activities should be cut entirely. As an example, they may investigate the customer financing arm of the business to see if it is creating the necessary profit.



The managers or executives in charge of profit centers have decision-making authority related to product pricing and operating expenses. They also face considerable pressure as they must ensure that their division's sales from products or services outweigh the costs—that their profit center produces profits year after year, either by increasing revenue, decreasing expenses, or both.


  Profit Centers vs. Cost Centers  

Not all units within an organization can be tracked as profit centers. This is particularly the case for many departments that provide an essential service within an organization: the research department within a broker-dealer, the auditing/compliance human resources department of a law firm, the inventory control department of a clothing retailer, human resources, and customer service. These divisions have their own costs but do not generate their own revenues. As a result, they are known as cost centers.



While profit centers are operated with a focus on bringing in revenue, cost centers are not associated with the direct generation of profits. Cost centers also include various support departments, such as IT support, human resources, or customer services, which are critical to business functions but do not have a specific responsibility to make money.


   Real World Examples of Profit Centers  

At the retailer Walmart, different departments selling different products could be divided into profit centers for analysis. For example, clothing could be considered one profit center while home goods could be a second profit center. In addition, departments that rotate on a seasonal basis, such as the garden center or sections relating to holiday decor, can be examined as profit centers to separate these departments' seasonal contribution from those with a year-round contribution.



The computer giant Microsoft has a wide variety of profit centers ranging from hardware to software to digital services. In analyzing these large revenue sources, the company may choose to separate the funds produced from the sale of its Windows operating system from that of other software suites, such as Microsoft Office, or other hardware sectors, such as the Xbox gaming console. This allows the profitability of different products to be examined and correlated based on associated cost and revenue comparisons.



The concept of a profit center is a framework to facilitate optimal resource allocation and profitability. To optimize profits, management may decide to allocate more resources to highly profitable areas while reducing allocations to less profitable or loss-inducing units.
What Is Profit Margin?  

Profit margin is a common measure of the degree to which a company or a particular business activity makes money. Expressed as a percentage, it represents the portion of a company’s sales revenue that it gets to keep as a profit, after subtracting all of its costs. For example, if a company reports that it achieved a 35% profit margin during the last quarter, it means that it netted $0.35 from each dollar of sales generated.





Key Takeaways

Profit margin gauges the degree to which a company or a business activity makes money.Expressed as a percentage, profit margin indicates how many cents of profit has been generated for each dollar of sales.While there are several types of profit margin, the most significant and commonly used is net profit margin, which is based on a company's bottom line after all other expenses, including taxes, have been accounted for.Profit margins are used by lenders, investors, and businesses themselves as indicators of a company's financial health, its management's skill, and its growth potential.Because typical profit margins vary by industry sector, investors should be cautious in comparing the figures for different types of businesses.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   How Profit Margin Works  

Businesses and individuals across the globe perform economic activities with the aim of making a profit. Numbers like $X million in gross sales or $Y million in earnings are useful but don't address a business's profitability and comparative performance. Several different quantitative measures are used to compute the gains (or losses) a business generates, which makes it easier to assess the performance of a business over different time periods or compare it against competitors. These measures are called profit margins.



While privately owned businesses, like local shops, may compute profit margins at their own desired frequency (like weekly or monthly), large businesses, such as publicly traded companies, are required to report them in accordance with the standard reporting timeframes (typically quarterly and/or annually). Businesses that are running on borrowed money may be required to compute and report their profit margins to lenders (like a bank) on a monthly basis.






There are other key profitability ratios that analysts and investors often use to determine the financial health of a company. For example, return on assets (ROA) analyzes how well a company deploys its assets to generate a profit after factoring in expenses. A company's return on equity (ROE) determines a company's return on shareholder equity, meaning its assets minus its debts.


   Types of Profit Margins  

While net profit margin is the most familiar and commonly used measure, there are actually four levels or types of profit margins, based on four kinds of profits:



Gross profit margin
Operating profit margin
Pre-tax profit margin
Net profit margin



These profits are reflected on a company's income statement in the following sequence:



A company reports its sales revenue, then accounts for the direct costs of producing its products or services. What's left is the gross profit. 
Then it accounts for indirect costs, like those associated with maintaining company headquarters, advertising, and R&D. What's left is the operating profit.
Next it factors in interest on debt and adds or subtracts any unusual charges or inflows unrelated to the company's main business. The result is its pre-tax profit.
Finally it accounts for taxes, leaving the net profit, also known as net income, which is the very bottom line.



Here are the mathematical formulas for calculating the four types of profit margins.


   Uses of Profit Margin in Business and Investing  

From a billion-dollar corporation to an average Joe’s sidewalk hot dog stand, profit margin is widely used by businesses across the globe. It is also used to indicate the profitability potential of larger sectors and of overall national or regional markets. It is common to see headlines like "ABC Research warns on declining profit margins of American auto sector," or "European corporate profit margins are breaking out."



In essence, the profit margin has become the globally adopted standard measure of the profit-generating capacity of a business and considered a top-level indicator of its potential. It is one of the first few key figures to be quoted in the quarterly results reports that companies issue.



Business owners, company management, and external consultants use it internally for addressing operational issues and to study seasonal patterns and corporate performance during different time frames. A zero or negative profit margin translates to a business that's either struggling to manage its expenses or failing to achieve good sales. Drilling it down further helps to identify the leaking areas—like high unsold inventory, excess or underutilized employees and resources, or high rentals—and then to devise appropriate action plans.



Enterprises operating multiple business divisions, product lines, stores, or geographically spread-out facilities may use profit margin for assessing the performance of each unit and compare them against one another.



Profit margin often comes into play when a company seeks funding. Smaller businesses, like a local retail store, may need to provide it for seeking (or restructuring) a loan from banks or other lenders.



Large corporations issuing debt to raise money are required to reveal their intended use of the capital, which can provide insights to investors about the profit margin that might be achieved either by cost cutting, increasing sales, or a combination of the two. The number has become an integral part of equity valuations in the primary market for initial public offerings (IPOs).



Finally, profit margins are a significant consideration for investors. Investors looking at funding a particular startup may want to assess the profit margin of the potential product/service being developed. While comparing two or more ventures to identify the better one, investors often hone in on their respective profit margins.


   Comparing Profit Margins  

Profit margin has its limitations, however, in terms of comparing companies. Businesses with low-profit margins, like retail and transportation, will usually have high turnaround and revenue, which can mean overall high profits despite the relatively low profit margin figure. High-end luxury goods, by comparison, may have low sales volume, but high profits per unit sold.



Below is a comparison of the profit margins of four long-running and successful companies in the technology and retail space:












Image by Sabrina Jiang Â© Investopedia 2021



Technology companies like Microsoft and Alphabet have high double-digit quarterly profit margins compared to the single-digit margins achieved by Walmart and Target. However, that does not mean Walmart and Target did not generate profits or were less successful businesses compared to Microsoft and Alphabet.












Image by Sabrina Jiang Â© Investopedia 2021



A look at stock returns between 2006 and 2012 shows similar performances across the four stocks, although Microsoft and Alphabet's profit margins were way ahead of Walmart and Target's during that period. Since they belong to different sectors, a blind comparison based solely on profit margins would be inappropriate. Profit margin comparisons between Microsoft and Alphabet, and between Walmart and Target are more appropriate.


   Examples of High Profit Margin Industries  

Producers of luxury goods and high-end accessories can have a high profit potential despite low sales volume, compared with the makers of lower-end goods. A very costly item, like a high-end car, may not even be manufactured until the customer has ordered it, making it a low-expense process for the maker, without much operational overhead.



Software or gaming companies may make a substantial investment initially in developing a new software product or video game but cash in big later by selling millions of copies with very little additional expense. Similarly, patent-secured businesses like pharmaceutical companies may incur high research costs initially, but reap high profit margins when they bring a new drug to market.


   Examples of Low Profit Margin Industries  

Operation-intensive businesses like transportation that may have to deal with fluctuating fuel prices, drivers’ perks and retention, and vehicle maintenance usually have lower profit margins.



Agriculture-based ventures usually have low profit margins owing to weather uncertainty, high inventory, operational overheads, need for farming and storage space, and resource-intensive activities.



Automobiles also have low profit margins, as profits and sales are limited by intense competition, uncertain consumer demand, and high operational expenses involved in developing dealership networks and logistics.




How Do You Define Profit Margin?
Profit margin is a measure of how much money a company is making on its products or services after subtracting all of the direct and indirect costs involved. It is expressed as a percentage.




What Are the Different Types of Profit Margins?
There are four ways of looking at a company's profit margin: gross profit margin, operating profit margin, pretax profit margin, and net profit margin.




What Is the Difference Between Gross Profit and Net Profit?
Gross profit measures a company's total sales revenue minus the total cost of goods sold (or services performed). Net profit margin also subtracts other expenses, including overhead, debt repayment, and taxes. Net profit is considered a company's bottom line.


   The Bottom Line  

There are many different metrics that analysts and investors can use to help them determine whether a company is financially sound. One of these is the profit margin, which measures the company's profit as a percentage of its sales. In simple terms, a company's profit margin is the total number of cents per dollar a company receives from a sale that it can keep as a profit.



The most common and widely used type of profit margin is net profit margin, which accounts for all of a company's costs, both direct and indirect.
What Is a Profit-Sharing Plan?  

A profit-sharing plan is a retirement plan that gives employees a share in the profits of a company. Under this type of plan, also known as a deferred profit-sharing plan (DPSP), an employee receives a percentage of a company’s profits based on its quarterly or annual earnings. A profit-sharing plan is a great way for a business to give its employees a sense of ownership in the company, but there are typically restrictions as to when and how a person can withdraw these funds without penalties.





Key Takeaways

A profit-sharing plan gives employees a share in their company’s profits based on its quarterly or annual earnings.It is up to the company to decide how much of its profits it wishes to share.Contributions to a profit-sharing plan are made by the company only; employees cannot make them, too.


   Understanding Profit-Sharing Plans  

So how does profit sharing work? Well, to start, a profit-sharing plan is any retirement plan that accepts discretionary employer contributions. This means a retirement plan with employee contributions, such as a 401(k) or something similar, is not a profit-sharing plan, because of the personal contributions.



Because employers set up profit-sharing plans, businesses decide how much they want to allocate to each employee. A company that offers a profit-sharing plan adjusts it as needed, sometimes making zero contributions in some years. In the years when it makes contributions, however, the company must come up with a set formula for profit allocation.



The most common way for a business to determine the allocation of a profit-sharing plan is through the comp-to-comp method. Using this calculation, an employer first calculates the sum total of all of its employees’ compensation. Then, to determine what percentage of the profit-sharing plan, an employee is entitled to, the company divides each employee’s annual compensation by that total. To arrive at the amount due to the employee, that percentage is multiplied by the amount of total profits being shared.






The most frequently used formula for a company to determine a profit-sharing allocation is called the “comp-to-comp method.”


   Example of a Profit-Sharing Plan  

Let’s assume a business with only two employees uses a comp-to-comp method for profit sharing. In this case, employee A earns $50,000 a year, and employee B earns $100,000 a year. If the business owner shares 10% of the annual profits and the business earns $100,000 in a fiscal year, the company would allocate profit share as follows:



Employee A = ($100,000 X 0.10) X ($50,000 / $150,000), or $3,333.33Employee B = ($100,000 X 0.10) X ($100,000 / $150,000), or $6,666.67





$61,000

The contribution limit for a company sharing profits with an employee for 2022 and $67,500 including catch-up contributions for those 50 or over during the year.


   Requirements for a Profit-Sharing Plan  

A profit-sharing plan is available for a business of any size, and a company can establish one even if it already has other retirement plans. Further, a company has a lot of flexibility in how it can implement a profit-sharing plan. As with a 401(k) plan, an employer has full discretion over how and when it makes contributions. However, all companies have to prove that a profit-sharing plan does not discriminate in favor of highly compensated employees.



As of 2022, the contribution limit for a company sharing its profits may not exceed the lesser of 100% of your compensation or $61,000. This limit increases to $67,500 for 2022 if you include catch-up contributions. In addition, the amount of an employee’s salary that can be considered for a profit-sharing plan is limited, in 2022 to $305,000.



To implement a profit-sharing plan, all businesses must fill out an Internal Revenue Service Form 5500 and disclose all participants of the plan. Early withdrawals, just as with other retirement plans, are subject to penalties, though with certain exceptions.




Is a Profit-Sharing Plan the Same As a 401(k)?
No, a profit-sharing plan is not the same thing as a 401(k). With a profit-sharing plan, a company gives employees a portion of the profit based on quarterly or annual earnings. With a 401(k), employees are making personal contributions. In some cases, a company will partially match an employee's 401(k) contribution.




What Are the Different Types of Profit-Sharing Plans?
With a cash plan, employees are given either cash or stock on a regular basis, such as quarterly or annually. The payouts are quick, relative to a retirement plan, but they are also taxed as regular income. A deferred plan sees profits set aside for a later date, usually when the employee retires. The employee is also not taxed until retirement. Some plans combine elements of both a cash and a deferred plan.




How Do Employers Determine Contribution Amounts to a Profit-Sharing Plan?
Employers typically use one of two methods to determine contribution amounts. With a comp-to-comp method, the total amount of compensation given to all employees is calculated. Next, each employee's compensation is divided by the total compensation, yielding a percentage that establishes each employee's portion of the profit. The higher an employee's salary, the greater the percentage of the profits that the person receives. Less commonly, a company may give the same percentage of profits to every employee, regardless of that employee's salary. 


   The Bottom Line  

A profit-sharing plan is a way for employers to provide employees with a portion of the business's profits, based on quarterly or annual earnings. Contributions are given out on a regular basis, or are put into a fund that is made available at a later time, such as when the employee retires.



A profit-sharing plan is funded entirely by the employer, and is therefore different from a 401(k), which is primarily funded by the employee. Profit-sharing plans are generally seen as a meaningful way to motivate employees, by directly connecting the company's success to the employees' increased compensation.
What Is a Profits Interest?  

Profits interest refers to an equity right based on the future value of a partnership awarded to an individual for their service to the partnership. The award consists of receiving a percentage of profits from a partnership without having to contribute capital.



In effect, it is a form of equity compensation and is used as a means of incentivizing workers when monetary compensation may be difficult due to limited funds, such as with a start-up limited liability company (LLC).





Key Takeaways

Profits interest is a way for partnerships to reward and retain employees in lieu of having equity to grant.Profits interest gives key employees a share in the future growth in value of the partnership in return for their efforts in making that happen.Profits interest makes an employee a partner in the practice and will trigger some other changes in terms of tax filing and some benefit programs.


   Understanding Profits Interest  

When starting a business, many entrepreneurs choose to structure their entity as an LLC taxed as a partnership, because such a structure allows them to use pass-through tax treatment and provides for the personal use of losses. But one option not available to entrepreneurs using this structure is the ability to issue equity stock options to motivate, reward, and retain key employees. That's where the profits interest comes in.  



A profits interest represents an actual interest in the ownership of a partnership. As such, it differs from a stock option (another form of awarding an ownership stake), which grants to the holder a right to buy into a company at a time in the future.



A profits interest may be tax-free to its recipient if structured to be compliant with Internal Revenue Service (IRS) safe-harbor rules for partnership profits interest, as it represents an ownership interest in future growth of an LLC or partnership, rather than an interest based on its current value.



A profits interest serves as an incentive for partners to become more proactive in pursuing greater profitability, thus contributing to the companies' growth. It also provides a tax benefit to recipients, as all appreciation in value is taxed as long-term capital gains rather than as ordinary income.


   Profits Interest Versus Capital Interest  

Equity in an LLC that is taxed as a partnership may be treated either as a capital interest or profits interest. A capital interest is an interest based on the current value of a company. For example, if the company were to liquidate soon after the grant of capital interest was made, then the grantee would be entitled to a share of the proceeds from the liquidation.



Meanwhile, a profits interest is treated as a right to share in the future growth of a company or, put another way, value created after the profits interest was granted. This differs from existing LLC equity holders whose stake is based on the current value of the entity. If the entity were to shut down, the existing LLC equity holders would share in the value of the LLC while the profits interest holder would get nothing.


   Profits Interest in Practice  

Profit interest stakes may be subject to vesting rules in the same way stock options are treated. Vesting may also be based on time of service so that the profit interest holder's continued service is required for them to be able to earn their interest. It also may be based on meeting a certain predetermined performance goal or threshold.



Once an employee accepts a profits interest offer they become a partner. This means they have to convert their salary to self-employment income and pay quarterly estimated income taxes, as well as leave some employee benefits programs.
What Is the Profitability Index (PI)?  

The profitability index (PI), alternatively referred to as value investment ratio (VIR) or profit investment ratio (PIR), describes an index that represents the relationship between the costs and benefits of a proposed project.



The profitability index is calculated as the ratio between the present value of future expected cash flows and the initial amount invested in the project. A higher PI means that a project will be considered more attractive.





Key Takeaways

The profitability index (PI) is a measure of a project's or investment's attractiveness.The PI is calculated by dividing the present value of future expected cash flows by the initial investment amount in the project.A PI greater than 1.0 is deemed as a good investment, with higher values corresponding to more attractive projects.Under capital constraints and mutually exclusive projects, only those with the highest PIs should be undertaken.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Understanding the Profitability Index (PI)  

The profitability index is helpful in ranking various projects because it lets investors quantify the value created per each investment unit. A profitability index of 1.0 is logically the lowest acceptable measure on the index, as any value lower than that number would indicate that the project's present value (PV) is less than the initial investment. As the value of the profitability index increases, so does the financial attractiveness of the proposed project.



The profitability index is an appraisal technique applied to potential capital outlays. The method divides the projected capital inflow by the projected capital outflow to determine the profitability of a project. As indicated by the aforementioned formula, the profitability index uses the present value of future cash flows and the initial investment to represent the aforementioned variables.



When using the profitability index to compare the desirability of projects, it's essential to consider how the technique disregards project size. Therefore, projects with larger cash inflows may result in lower profitability index calculations because their profit margins are not as high.


   Formula for the Profitability Index  

The profitability index can be computed using the following ratio:












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


  PV of Future Cash Flows (Numerator)  

The present value of future cash flows requires the implementation of time value of money calculations. Cash flows are discounted the appropriate number of periods to equate future cash flows to current monetary levels. Discounting accounts for the idea that the value of $1 today does not equal the value of $1 received in one year because money in the present offers more earning potential via interest-bearing savings accounts, than money yet unavailable. Cash flows received further in the future are therefore considered to have a lower present value than money received closer to the present.


  Investment Required (Denominator)  

The discounted projected cash outflows represent the initial capital outlay of a project. The initial investment required is only the cash flow required at the start of the project. All other outlays may occur at any point in the project's life, and these are factored into the calculation through the use of discounting in the numerator. These additional capital outlays may factor in benefits relating to taxation or depreciation.


   Interpreting the Profitability Index  

Because profitability index calculations cannot be negative, they consequently must be converted to positive figures before they are deemed useful. Calculations greater than 1.0 indicate the future anticipated discounted cash inflows of the project are greater than the anticipated discounted cash outflows. Calculations less than 1.0 indicate the deficit of the outflows is greater than the discounted inflows, and the project should not be accepted. Calculations that equal 1.0 bring about situations of indifference where any gains or losses from a project are minimal.



When using the profitability index exclusively, calculations greater than 1.0 are ranked based on the highest calculation. When limited capital is available, and projects are mutually exclusive, the project with the highest profitability index is to be accepted as it indicates the project with the most productive use of limited capital.



The profitability index is also called the benefit-cost ratio for this reason. Although some projects result in higher net present values, those projects may be passed over because they do not have the highest profitability index and do not represent the most beneficial usage of company assets.


   Example of the Profitability Index  

Imagine that a company is considering two potential projects: building a new factory, or expanding an existing one. The factory expansion project is expected to cost $1 million and generate cash flows of $200,000 per year for the next 5 years, with a discount rate of 10%. The new factory project is expected to cost $2 million and generate cash flows of $300,000 per year for the next 5 years, also with a discount rate of 10%.



To calculate the profitability index for the factory expansion project, the present value of the future cash flows would be calculated using the following formula:



PV = CF1 / (1 + r)^1 + CF2 / (1 + r)^2 + ... + CFn / (1 + r)^n



Where PV is the present value, CF is the cash flow in a given year, r is the discount rate, and n is the number of years.



Plugging in the values for this example, we get:



PV = $200,000 / (1 + 0.10)^1 + $200,000 / (1 + 0.10)^2 + ... + $200,000 / (1 + 0.10)^5PV = $750,319



The profitability index for the factory expansion project is then calculated as:



PI = PV / Initial InvestmentPI = $750,319 / $1,000,000PI = 0.75



To calculate the profitability index for the new factory project, the present value of the future cash flows would be calculated using the same formula:



PV = $300,000 / (1 + 0.10)^1 + $300,000 / (1 + 0.10)^2 + ... + $300,000 / (1 + 0.10)^5PV = $1,125,479



The profitability index for the new factory project is then calculated as:



PI = PV / Initial InvestmentPI = $1,125,479/ $2,000,000PI = 0.56



In this example, the factory expansion project has a higher profitability index, meaning it is a more attractive investment. The company might decide to pursue this project instead of the new factory project because it is expected to generate more value per unit of investment.



However, since both PIs are less than 1.0, the company may end up forgoing either project in favor of a better opportunity elsewhere.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of the Profitability Index  

Here are some advantages of the profitability index:



It considers the time value of money: The profitability index takes into account the fact that money today is worth more than the same amount of money in the future, due to the potential for earning interest. This makes it a more accurate measure of investment attractiveness than simply looking at the total expected cash flows.It allows for comparison of projects with different lifespans: The profitability index can be used to compare projects with different lifespans, because it takes into account the present value of future cash flows rather than just the total expected cash flows.It helps with decision-making under capital constraints: When a company has limited resources and can't pursue all potential projects, the profitability index can be used to prioritize which projects to pursue first.



Here are some disadvantages of the profitability index:



It only considers the initial investment: The profitability index only looks at the initial investment required for a project and ignores ongoing or future investments that may be necessary. This can make it difficult to accurately compare projects with different investment requirements.It doesn't consider the size of the project: The profitability index does not take into account the size of the project, so a large project with lower profit margins may have a lower profitability index than a smaller project with higher profit margins.It relies on accurate forecasting: The profitability index relies on accurate forecasting of future cash flows and discount rates, which can be difficult to predict with certainty. If the assumptions used in the calculation are incorrect, the resulting profitability index may not accurately reflect the attractiveness of the project.




Profitability Index Pros and Cons

Pros

Accounts for the time value of money
Allows comparisons across different projects



Cons

Does not consider ongoing future costs
Ignores project size
Bad forecasts or assumptions can make the analysis unreliable







How Is the Profitability Index Computed?
The profitability index is a calculation determined by dividing the present value of futures cash flows by the initial investment in the project. The present value of the future cash flows is calculated using the time value of money, which takes into account the fact that money today is worth more than the same amount of money in the future due to the potential for earning interest. The initial investment is the amount of capital required to start the project.




What Is the Profitability Index Used for?
The profitability index is used for comparison and contrast when a company has several investments and projects it is considering undertaking. The PI is especially useful when a company has limited resources and can't pursue all potential projects, as it can be used to prioritize which projects to pursue first. The index can be used alongside other metrics to determine which is the best investment.




What Is a Good Profitability Index?
Generally, the higher the PI the better. A profitability index greater than 1.0 is often considered to be a good investment, as it means that the expected return is higher than the initial investment. When making comparisons, the project with the highest PI may be the best option.




What Are Other Names for the Profitability Index?
The profitability index is also called the profit investment ratio (PIR), cost-benefit ratio, or the value investment ratio (VIR).


   The Bottom Line  

The profitability index (PI) is a measure of the attractiveness of a project or investment. It is calculated by dividing the present value of future expected cash flows by the initial investment amount in the project. A PI greater than 1.0 is considered to be a good investment, with higher values corresponding to more attractive projects. The PI is useful for ranking and comparing different projects, but it is important to consider how this technique disregards project size and only looks at the present value of future cash flows and the initial investment. Under capital constraints and when comparing mutually exclusive projects, only those with the highest PIs should be undertaken.
What Are Profitability Ratios?  

Profitability ratios are a class of financial metrics that are used to assess a business's ability to generate earnings relative to its revenue, operating costs, balance sheet assets, or shareholders' equity over time, using data from a specific point in time. They are among the most popular metrics used in financial analysis.



Profitability ratios can be a window into the financial performance and health of a business. Ratios are best used as comparison tools rather than as metrics in isolation.



Profitability ratios can be used along with efficiency ratios, which consider how well a company uses its assets internally to generate income (as opposed to after-cost profits).





Key Takeaways

Profitability ratios assess a company's ability to earn profits from its sales or operations, balance sheet assets, or shareholders' equity.They indicate how efficiently a company generates profit and value for shareholders.Profitability ratios include margin ratios and return ratios.Higher ratios are often more favorable than lower ratios, indicating success at converting revenue to profit.These ratios are used to assess a company's current performance compared to its past performance, the performance of other companies in its industry, or the industry average.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   What Can Profitability Ratios Tell You?  

Profitability ratios can shed light on how well a company's management is operating a business. Investors can use them, along with other research, to determine whether or not a company might be a good investment.



Broadly speaking, higher profitability ratios can point to strengths and advantages that a company has, such as the ability to charge more (or less) for products and to maintain lower costs.



A company's profitability ratios are most useful when compared to those of similar companies, the company's own performance history, or average ratios for the company's industry. Normally, a higher value relative to previous value indicates that the company is doing well.






Return ratios are metrics that compare returns received to investments made by bondholders and shareholders. They reflect how well a business manages the investments to produce value for investors.


   Types of Profitability Ratios  

Profitability ratios generally fall into two categories—margin ratios and return ratios.



Margin ratios give insight, from several different angles, into a company's ability to turn sales into a profit. Return ratios offer several different ways to examine how well a company generates a return for its shareholders using the money they've invested.



Some common examples of the two types of profitability ratios are:



Gross margin
Operating margin
Pretax margin
Net profit margin
Cash flow margin
Return on assets (ROA)
Return on equity (ROE)
Return on invested capital (ROIC)


   Margin Ratios  

Different profit margins are used to measure a company's profitability at various cost levels of inquiry. These profit margins include gross margin, operating margin, pretax margin, and net profit margin. The margins between profit and costs expand when costs are low and shrink as layers of additional costs (e.g., cost of goods sold (COGS), operating expenses, and taxes) are taken into consideration.


  Gross Margin  

Gross profit margin, also known as gross margin, is one of the most widely used profitability ratios. Gross profit is the difference between sales revenue and the costs related to the products sold, the aforementioned COGS. Gross margin compares gross profit to revenue.



A company with a high gross margin compared to its peers likely has the ability to charge a premium for its products. It may indicate the company has an important competitive advantage. On the other hand, a pattern of declining gross margins may point to increased competition.



Some industries experience seasonality in their operations. For example, retailers typically experience significantly higher revenues and earnings during the year-end holiday season. Thus, it would be most informative and useful to compare a retailer's fourth-quarter profit margin with its (or its peers') fourth-quarter profit margin from the previous year.


  Operating Margin  

Operating margin is the percentage of sales left after accounting for COGS as well as normal operating expenses (e.g., sales and marketing, general expenses, administrative expenses). It compares operating profit to revenue.



Operating margin can indicate how efficiently a company manages its operations. That can provide insight into how well those in management keep costs down and maximize profitability.



A company with a higher operating margin than its peers can be considered to have more ability to handle its fixed costs and interest on obligations. It most likely can charge less than its competitors. And it's better positioned to weather the effects of a slowing economy.


  Pretax Margin  

The pretax margin shows a company's profitability after accounting for all expenses including non-operating expenses (e.g., interest payments and inventory write-offs), except taxes.



As with other margin ratios, pretax margin compares revenue to costs. It can signal management's ability to run a business efficiently and effectively by boosting sales as it lowers costs.



A company with a high pretax profit margin compared to its peers can be considered a financially healthy company with the ability to price its products and/or services most appropriately.


  Net Profit Margin  

The net profit margin, or net margin, reflects a company's ability to generate earnings after all expenses and taxes are accounted for. It's obtained by dividing net income into total revenue.



Net profit margin is seen as a bellwether of the overall financial well-being of a business. It can indicate whether company management is generating enough profit from its sales and keeping all costs under control.



Its drawback as a peer comparison tool is that, because it accounts for all expenses, it may reflect one-time expenses or an asset sale that would increase profits for just that period. Other companies won't have the same one-off transactions. That's why it's a good idea to look at other ratios, such as gross margin and operating margin, along with net profit margin.


  Cash Flow Margin  

The cash flow margin measures how well a company converts sales revenue to cash. It reflects the relationship between cash flows from operating activities and sales.



Cash flow margin is a significant ratio for companies because cash is used to buy assets and pay expenses. That makes the management of cash flow very important. A greater cash flow margin indicates a greater amount of cash that can be used to pay, for example, shareholder dividends, vendors, and debt payments, or to purchase capital assets.



A company with negative cash flow is losing money despite the fact that it's producing revenue from sales. That can mean that it might need to borrow funds to keep operating.



A limited period of negative cash flow can result from cash being used to invest in, e.g., a major project to support the growth of the company. One could expect that that would have a beneficial effect on cash flow and cash flow margin in the long run.


   Return Ratios  

Return ratios provide information that can be used to evaluate how well a company generates returns and creates wealth for its shareholders. These profitability ratios compare investments in assets or equity to net income. Those measurements can indicate a company's capability to manage these investments.


  Return on Assets (ROA)  

Profitability is assessed relative to costs and expenses. It's analyzed in comparison to assets to see how effective a company is at deploying assets to generate sales and profits. The use of the term "return" in the ROA measure customarily refers to net profit or net income—the value of earnings from sales after all costs, expenses, and taxes. ROA is net income divided by total assets.



The more assets that a company has amassed, the greater the sales and potential profits the company may generate. As economies of scale help lower costs and improve margins, returns may grow at a faster rate than assets, ultimately increasing ROA.


  Return on Equity (ROE)  

ROE is a key ratio for shareholders as it measures a company's ability to earn a return on its equity investments. ROE, calculated as net income divided by shareholders' equity, may increase without additional equity investments. The ratio can rise due to higher net income being generated from a larger asset base funded with debt.



A high ROE can be a sign to investors that a company may be an attractive investment. It can indicate that a company has the ability to generate cash and not have to rely on debt.


  Return on Invested Capital (ROIC)  

This return ratio reflects how well a company puts its capital from all sources (including bondholders and shareholders) to work to generate a return for those investors. It's considered a more advanced metric than ROE because it involves more than just shareholder equity.



ROIC compares after-tax operating profit to total invested capital (again, from debt and equity). It's used internally to assess appropriate use of capital. ROIC is also used by investors for valuation purposes. ROIC that exceeds the company's weighted average cost of capital (WACC) can indicate value creation and a company that can trade at a premium.




What Are the Most Important Profitability Ratios?
The profitability ratios often considered most important for a business are gross margin, operating margin, and net profit margin.




Why Are Profitability Ratios Significant?
They're significant because they can indicate the ability to make regular profits (after accounting for costs), and how well a company manages investments for a return for shareholders. They can reflect management's ability to achieve these two goals, as well as the company's overall financial well-being.




How Is Business Profitability Best Measured?
The gross profit margin and net profit margin ratios are two commonly used measurements of business profitability. Net profit margin reflects the amount of profit a business gets from its total revenue after all expenses are accounted for. Gross profit margin indicates profit that exceeds the cost of goods sold.


   The Bottom Line  

Profitability ratios offer companies, investors, and analysts a way to assess various aspects of a company's financial health. There are two main types of profitability ratios: margin ratios and return ratios.



Margin ratios measure a company's ability to generate income relative to costs. Return ratios measure how well a company uses investments to generate returns—and wealth—for the company and its shareholders.
What Is a Program Evaluation Review Technique (PERT) Chart?  

A program evaluation review technique (PERT) chart is a graphical representation of a project's timeline that displays all of the individual tasks necessary to complete the project. 



As a project management tool, the PERT chart is often preferred to the Gantt chart because it identifies task dependencies. However, a PERT chart can be more difficult to interpret.





Key Takeaways

PERT charts were first created by the U.S. Navy's Special Projects Office in 1950s to guide the Polaris nuclear submarine project.A PERT chart uses circles or rectangles called nodes to represent project events or milestones. These nodes are linked by vectors, or lines, that represent various tasks and their dependencies.A PERT chart allows managers to evaluate the time and resources necessary to manage a project.


   How Does a PERT Chart Work?  

A project manager creates a PERT chart in order to analyze all of a project's tasks while estimating the amount of time required to complete each one. Using this information, the project manager can estimate the minimum amount of time required to complete the entire project.



This information also helps the manager develop a project budget and determine the resources needed to accomplish the project.



A PERT chart uses circles or rectangles, called nodes, to represent project events or milestones. The nodes are linked by vectors or lines that represent various tasks.



Dependent tasks are items that must be performed in a specific manner. For example, if an arrow is drawn from Task No. 1 to Task No. 2 on a PERT chart, Task No. 1 must be completed before work on Task No. 2 begins.



Items at the same stage of production but on different task lines within a project are referred to as parallel tasks. They're independent of each other, and occur at the same time.



A well-constructed PERT chart looks like this:












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020 


   How Is a PERT Chart Interpreted?  

A PERT chart is a visual representation of a series of events that must occur within the scope of a project’s lifetime. The direction of arrows indicates the flow and sequence of events required.



Dotted activity lines represent dummy activities—items that are located on another PERT path. Numbers and time allotments are assigned and shown inside each vector.



These charts have their distinct definitions and terms, the most important of which anticipate how long it will take to finalize a project. "Optimistic time" refers to the shortest duration. "Pessimistic time" is the longest it might take. The "most likely time" indicates a reasonable estimate of the best-case scenario, whereas "expected time" accounts for problems and obstacles.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of PERT Charts  

A PERT chart is similar to a critical path analysis (CPA), another method that project managers use to chart tasks in a project. The main difference between the two is that a PERT chart uses various time frames and probability terms when estimating each project stage.



As a project management tool, PERT charts have distinct advantages and disadvantages.


  Advantages  

A PERT chart allows a manager to evaluate the time and resources necessary to complete a project. It also allows the manager to track required assets during any stage of production in the course of the project.



PERT analysis incorporates data and information supplied by a number of departments. This combining of information encourages department responsibility and identifies all responsible parties across the organization.



It also improves communication during the project and it allows an organization to commit to projects that are relevant to its strategic positioning.



Finally, PERT charts are useful input for what-if analyses. Understanding the possibilities concerning the flow of project resources and milestones allows management to achieve the most efficient and useful project path.


  Disadvantages  

The information that goes into a PERT chart can be highly subjective. They may include unreliable data or unreasonable estimates for cost or time.



PERT charts are deadline-focused and might not fully communicate the financial positioning of a project.



Creating a PERT chart is labor-intensive, and maintaining and updating the information requires additional time and resources. Continual review of the information provided, as well as the prospective positioning of the project, is required for a PERT chart to be of value.


   Example of PERT Charts  

PERT charts were first created by the U.S. Navy's Special Projects Office in 1950s to guide the Polaris Fleet Ballistic Missile project. Using the PERT model, Navy project managers were able to evaluate the progress of their project, determine the validity of their schedules, and estimate the effects of proposed changes to the established plans.



The success of this initial use of PERT charts has caused them to be used ever since in many industries.


   PERT Chart vs. Gantt Chart  

The Gantt chart goes back even further than the PERT chart. American mechanical engineer Henry Gantt designed it sometime around 1910 to 1915 and it remains the most widely used project management chart.



Like the PERT chart, the Gantt chart is a graphical depiction of a project timeline. Presented as a horizontal bar chart, it records the start and completion dates of each element of a project and indicates their interdependencies.



The two charts are used in similar ways. Both are used to define all of the key tasks that must occur to get a project completed. Both are useful in determining the time, money, and resources needed. And both can be used to monitor a project's progress to completion.


  Key Differences  

Early versions of the Gantt chart did not show dependencies. That is, it didn't indicate where a delay in completion of one task could hold up the start of another task, potentially throwing a whole project off schedule. Later versions of Gantt corrected this.



Some say that a PERT chart makes it easier to see and track a project's critical path. The critical path is the minimum time it will take to complete a project, based on the longest path from start to finish.



Some project managers prefer to use a PERT chart as part of the planning stage of a project and a Gantt chart to monitor its exercution.




What Are the Main Components of a PERT Chart?
A PERT chart displays all of the key deliverables necessary to complete a project.It indicates the amount of time and resources needed to perform each task and the person or department responsible for each.The key deliverables or tasks are displayed with arrows that indicate the order in which each must be completed, and the dependencies among them.




How Can I Create a PERT Chart?
Microsoft Excel can be used to create a PERT chart. Custom software with ready-made templates, such as Lucidchart, also are available.




Why Would I Use a PERT Chart Instead of a Gantt Chart?
A PERT chart requires a project manager to think through three possible timelines: "Optimistic time" is the shortest possible route to completion. "Pessimistic time" is the longest it might take if everything goes wrong. The "most likely time" is a reasonable estimate of the best-case scenario.From the outset, the project manager has defined the ideal outcome of a project but also identified the possible barriers to achieving that outcome.
What Are Progress Billings?  

Progress billings are invoices requesting payment for work completed to date. Progress billings are prepared and submitted for payment at different stages in the process of a major project.



This type of billing is common in projects that last a long time. It allows the person billing—usually a contractor—to fund the project and themselves as the project continues.



The progress billings invoice can include the original contract amount, the amount client has paid to date as well as what percentage of the job has been completed. However, progress billings can include other items that owners and contractors should understand and work out before work begins.





Key Takeaways

Progress billings are invoices that are submitted for work completed to date on a lengthy project.Progress billings are primarily used for long-term projects that often come with large budgets.Progress billings are common for large-scale construction projects, and the aerospace and defense industries.


   Understanding Progress Billings  

Progress billings allow contractors to bill their clients incrementally as the project is in progress. For progress billings to work, the client and contractor must agree to a payment schedule when invoices will be submitted for payment.



They are useful for long-term projects that often come with large budgets. Progress billings prevent the client from having to fund the project upfront. The contractor also benefits by getting paid at regular intervals and can also pay for expenses such as raw materials during the project by invoicing at various stages.



Payments are based on a verified percentage of project completion. In other words, the payments might be divided up as the project progresses based on specific milestones set by one or both parties. The final, remaining balance is usually remitted to the contractor once the project has been completed, and the client is satisfied with the work.


   What's Included in Progress Billings  

The information included in progress billings is different from the typical invoicing practices of many companies. Some of the financial details might include:



The total amount of the contract that's due for the projectAny approved changes as well as the adjusted amount owedThe total amount billed up to that pointThe current completion percentage for the projectThe remaining balance owed at the completion of the project


  Schedule of Values  

Progress billings include a technique called the schedule of values, which outlines the different costs or values for each of the project's tasks. A schedule of values is common in the construction industry whereby owners and contractors work together to determine how much will be spent on each phase of the project. During the progress billings process, a value is assigned to each phase as part of the schedule. Also, the completion percentage can be established for each phase as progress is made on the overall project.



The schedule of values also helps to determine whether there were cost overruns or the project came under budget. For example, the schedule of values would show what was paid for each task as well as the initial estimate. As a result, it can be determined at what point in the construction phase did the project exceed the estimated project cost. 



Having a schedule of values included in the progress billings process helps contractors and owners develop a transparent process where all of the financial details are known upfront. It also protects construction companies legally and financially by having the estimates in writing so that there are no surprises at the completion of the project. 


  Percentage Retained  

In some projects, a specific amount or percentage might be withheld by the owner until the completion of the project. The retention amount or retainage can be 5% to 10% of the total project or for each progress value. Essentially, the money is held in reserve in the event there are any issues during the project.



A retainage also helps protect the owner in case the project isn't completed, the contract is followed properly, or if there are any issues with the contractor and the subcontractors. However, the retainage amount can create cash flow issues for the construction company. As a result, both the owner and contractor must come up with an agreed-upon retainage amount early in the process. 


   Who Uses Progress Billings?  

Progress billings are fairly common in a number of different industries including construction projects. Many roofers, plumbers, general contractors, painters, electricians, and plumbers will use progress billings as part of their businesses. The cost of raw materials, labor, and delays in construction are some reasons why the industry uses progress billings.



They are also used in aerospace and defense since these projects typically have tremendous budgets and can take years to complete. As a result, progress billing is a natural solution.






Both the client and contractor should sign a document each time a payment is remitted.


   Special Considerations: Factoring in Cost Changes  

It is common for a project’s cost to change, given the total dollars involved and the complexity of the project. The building contract states how clients approve cost changes, and typically, a customer must initial or sign a document that indicates the specific changes. However, some cost overruns are unavoidable while others are due to a lack of planning. Some common cost overruns can include:



The owner changes the scope of the project task or asks for additional workUnexpected damage to a project or building such as termites, mold, or water damageDesign errors or poor project planningPrice changes to labor or materials particularly if it's an extended project



Many contractors factor in a price allowance, such as a small percentage that provides the ability to increase the price of the project. Owners should discuss with the contractor the extent of any price allowances.


   Example of Progress Billings  

Once a client chooses the contractor, the two will negotiate the terms of the contract. This process includes establishing a payment schedule or frequency of payment according to certain milestones agreed upon by both parties. Once the work begins, and the milestones are reached, the contractor can then start submitting invoices to the client.



Assume ABC Construction signs an agreement to build an office building for $1.6 million over a two-year period and that ABC’s profit is $600,000.



The total project costs and profit would be broken down as follows:



$1,000,000 costs$600,000 in profits


  Year One  

In year one, 40% of the project is completeThe company bills the client $640,000 (40% x $1,600,000)The company records a profit of $240,000 in year one (40% x $600,000 in total profit).


  Year Two  

In year two, 100% of the project is completeThe company bills the client the remaining 60% owed or $960,000 (60% x $1,600,000)The company records a profit of $360,000 in year two (60% x $600,000 in total profit).
What Is a Progressive Tax?  

A progressive tax involves a tax rate that increases (or progresses) as taxable income increases. It imposes a lower tax rate on low-income earners and a higher tax rate on those with a higher income. This is usually achieved by creating tax brackets that group taxpayers by income range.



The income tax system in the U.S. is considered a progressive system, although it has been growing flatter in recent decades. For 2022 and 2023, there are seven tax brackets with rates of 10%, 12%, 22%, 24%, 32%, 35%, and 37%. There were 16 tax brackets in 1985.





Key Takeaways

A progressive tax imposes a higher tax rate on higher taxable incomes than lower ones.A regressive tax takes a larger percentage of income from low-income individuals than from those with high income.A sales tax is an example of a regressive tax.A flat tax is a single income tax rate that applies to all taxable income, no matter how much or how little.The U.S. Social Security payroll tax is considered a flat tax (with an income cap).












Investopedia / Dennis Madamba


   Understanding the Progressive Tax  

The rationale for a progressive tax is that a flat percentage tax would be a disproportionate burden for people with low incomes. The dollar amount owed may be smaller, but the effect on their real spending power is greater.



The degree to how progressive a tax structure is depends upon how much of the tax burden is transferred to higher incomes. If one tax code has a low rate of 10% and a high rate of 30%, and another tax code has tax rates ranging from 10% to 80%, the latter is more progressive.


   Advantages of a Progressive Tax  

On the pro side, a progressive tax system reduces the tax burden on the people who can least afford to pay. That leaves more money in the pockets of low-wage earners, who are likely to spend more of it on essential goods and stimulate the economy in the process.



A progressive tax system also tends to collect more taxes than flat taxes or regressive taxes, as the highest percentage of taxes is collected from those with the highest amounts of money.



A progressive tax also results in those with the greatest amount of resources funding a greater portion of the services that all citizens and businesses rely on, such as road maintenance and public safety.


   Disadvantages of a Progressive Tax  

Critics of progressive taxes consider them to be a disincentive to success. They also oppose the system as a means of income redistribution, which they believe punishes the wealthy, upper class, and even the middle class, unfairly.



Opponents of the progressive tax generally are supporters of low taxes and correspondingly minimal government services.


   Progressive Tax vs. Regressive Tax  

The opposite of a progressive tax, a regressive tax takes a larger chunk of disposable income from low-wage earners than from high-wage earners.



A sales tax is an example of a regressive tax. If two individuals, one rich and one poor, both buy an identical bag of groceries, both pay the same amount of sales tax. But the poorer person has shelled out a greater percentage of their income in order to purchase those groceries.


   Progressive Tax vs. Flat Tax  

A flat income tax system imposes the same percentage tax rate on everyone, regardless of income. In the U.S., the payroll tax that funds Social Security and Medicare is often considered a flat tax because all wage earners pay the same percentage. However, for Social Security, this tax has a cap.



For 2022, the Social Security payroll tax was applied only to earnings up to $147,000. For 2023, that figure is $160,200. That makes it a flat tax on everyone, up to those levels.



The Medicare tax applies to all covered wages (there's no wage cap as there is for the Social Security tax).




Do I Pay the Same Percentage of Tax on All My Income?
No. With a progressive tax, you only pay your highest percentage on the portion of income that exceeds the minimum threshold. For example, if a single person makes $100,000 in 2022, they fall into the 24% bracket (as well as lower brackets). However, only the portion of their income that exceeds the bracket's minimum threshold of over $89,075 is taxed at that rate. Thus, income is taxed at 10% on the first $10,275, then 12% on income up to $41,775, and 22% on income up to $89,075. In this scenario, only $10,925 ($100,000 - $89,075) would be taxed at 24%.




How Often Do the Tax Brackets Change?
Tax brackets are set by Congress and enforced by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Changes typically come in the form of legislation like the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, which kept seven brackets but lowered the rates that applied to almost every one.




What Is the Purpose of a Progressive Tax?
Progressive taxes exist so that the burden of paying for government services, oversight, and infrastructure doesn't fall disproportionately on those earning lower incomes. With a progressive tax system, those who earn less are taxed less. Those who earn more are taxed more. Since the top earners are taxed more and on larger sums of money, a progressive tax also increases the amount of tax revenue coming in.


   The Bottom Line  

A progressive tax is a tax that progresses to higher tax rates as taxable income increases. It means that those individuals with low incomes are taxed at lower rates than individuals with higher incomes.



The U.S. progressive income tax involves tax brackets, each with its own tax rate. For tax years 2022 and 2023, those tax rates are 10%, 12%, 22%, 24%, 32%, 35%, and 37%. While the tax rates didn't change from 2022 to 2023, the range of income covered by each bracket increased to reflect inflation.
What Is Project Finance?  

Project finance is the funding (financing) of long-term infrastructure, industrial projects, and public services using a non-recourse or limited recourse financial structure. The debt and equity used to finance the project are paid back from the cash flow generated by the project.



Project financing is a loan structure that relies primarily on the project's cash flow for repayment, with the project's assets, rights, and interests held as secondary collateral. Project finance is especially attractive to the private sector because companies can fund major projects off-balance sheet (OBS).





Key Takeaways

Project finance involves the public funding of infrastructure and other long-term, capital-intensive projects.This often utilizes a non-recourse or limited recourse financial structure.A debtor with a non-recourse loan cannot be pursued for any additional payment beyond the seizure of the asset.Project debt is typically held in a sufficient minority subsidiary not consolidated on the balance sheet of the respective shareholders (i.e., it is an off-balance sheet item).


   Understanding Project Finance  

The project finance structure for a build, operate, and transfer (BOT) project includes multiple key elements.



Project finance for BOT projects generally includes a special purpose vehicle (SPV). The company’s sole activity is carrying out the project by subcontracting most aspects through construction and operations contracts. Because there is no revenue stream during the construction phase of new-build projects, debt service only occurs during the operations phase.



For this reason, parties take significant risks during the construction phase. The sole revenue stream during this phase is generally under an offtake agreement or power purchase agreement. Because there is limited or no recourse to the project’s sponsors, company shareholders are typically liable up to the extent of their shareholdings. The project remains off-balance-sheet for the sponsors and for the government.






Not all infrastructure investments are funded with project finance. Many companies issue traditional debt or equity in order to undertake such projects.


   Off-Balance Sheet Projects  

Project debt is typically held in a sufficient minority subsidiary not consolidated on the balance sheet of the respective shareholders. This reduces the project’s impact on the cost of the shareholders’ existing debt and debt capacity. The shareholders are free to use their debt capacity for other investments.



To some extent, the government may use project financing to keep project debt and liabilities off-balance-sheet so they take up less fiscal space. Fiscal space is the amount of money the government may spend beyond what it is already investing in public services such as health, welfare, and education. The theory is that strong economic growth will bring the government more money through extra tax revenue from more people working and paying more taxes, allowing the government to increase spending on public services.


   Non-Recourse Financing  

When a company defaults on a loan, recourse financing gives lenders full claim to shareholders’ assets or cash flow. In contrast, project financing designates the project company as a limited-liability SPV. The lenders’ recourse is thus limited primarily or entirely to the project’s assets, including completion and performance guarantees and bonds, in case the project company defaults.



A key issue in non-recourse financing is whether circumstances may arise in which the lenders have recourse to some or all of the shareholders’ assets. A deliberate breach on the part of the shareholders may give the lender recourse to assets.



Applicable law may restrict the extent to which shareholder liability may be limited. For example, liability for personal injury or death is typically not subject to elimination. Non-recourse debt is characterized by high capital expenditures (CapEx), long loan periods, and uncertain revenue streams. Underwriting these loans requires financial modeling skills and sound knowledge of the underlying technical domain.



To preempt deficiency balances, loan-to-value (LTV) ratios are usually limited to 60% in non-recourse loans. Lenders impose higher credit standards on borrowers to minimize the chance of default. Non-recourse loans, on account of their greater risk, carry higher interest rates than recourse loans.


   Recourse vs. Non-Recourse Loans  

If two people are looking to purchase large assets, such as a home, and one receives a recourse loan and the other a non-recourse loan, the actions the financial institution can take against each borrower are different.



In both cases, the homes may be used as collateral, meaning they can be seized should either borrower default. To recoup costs when the borrowers default, the financial institutions can attempt to sell the homes and use the sale price to pay down the associated debt. If the properties sell for less than the amount owed, the financial institution can pursue only the debtor with the recourse loan. The debtor with the non-recourse loan cannot be pursued for any additional payment beyond the seizure of the asset.
Project management involves the planning and organization of a company's resources to move a specific task, event, or duty toward completion. It can involve a one-time project or an ongoing activity, and resources managed include personnel, finances, technology, and intellectual property.



Project management often is associated with fields in engineering and construction and, more lately, healthcare and information technology (IT), which typically have a complex set of components that have to be completed and assembled in a set fashion to create a functioning product.



No matter the industry, project managers tend to have roughly the same job: to help define the goals and objectives of the project and determine when the various project components are to be completed and by whom. They also create quality control checks to ensure completed components meet a certain standard.





Key Takeaways

On a very basic level, project management includes the planning, initiation, execution, monitoring, and closing of a project.Many different types of project management methodologies and techniques exist, including traditional, waterfall, agile, and lean.Project management is used across industries and is an important part of the success of construction, engineering, and IT companies.


   Understanding Project Management  

Generally speaking, the project management process includes the following stages: planning, initiation, execution, monitoring, and closing.






From start to finish, every project needs a plan that outlines how things will get off the ground, how they will be built, and how they will finish.



For example, in architecture, the plan starts with an idea, progresses to drawings, and moves on to blueprint drafting, with numerous little pieces coming together between each step. The architect is just one person providing one piece of the puzzle. The project manager puts it all together.



Every project usually has a budget and a time frame. Project management uses a type of triage process to keep everything moving smoothly, on time, and on budget. That means when the planned time frame is coming to an end, the project manager may keep all the team members working on the project to finish on schedule.



Many types of project management have been developed to meet the specific needs of certain industries or types of projects. Three of those types are waterfall, agile, and lean.


   Waterfall Project Management  

This is similar to traditional project management but includes the caveat that each task needs to be completed before the next one starts. Steps are linear and progress flows in one direction—like a waterfall. Because of this, attention to task sequences and timelines is very important in this type of project management. Often, the size of the team working on the project will grow as smaller tasks are completed and larger tasks begin.


   Agile Project Management  

The computer software industry was one of the first to use this methodology. With the basis originating in the 12 core principles of the Agile Manifesto, agile project management is an iterative process focused on the continuous monitoring and improvement of deliverables. At its core, high-quality deliverables are a result of providing customer value, team interactions, and adapting to current business circumstances.



Agile project management does not follow a sequential stage-by-stage approach. Instead, phases of the project are completed in parallel to each other by various team members in an organization. This approach can find and rectify errors without having to restart the entire procedure.


   Lean Project Management  

This methodology is all about avoiding waste, both of time and of resources. The main idea is to create more value for customers with fewer resources. When managing a project with this approach, the goal is similar to that of the lean enterprise production principle. The only resources that will be used on the project are those that directly contribute to its successful completion.



There are many more methodologies and types of project management than listed here, but these are some of the most common. The type used depends on the preference of the project manager or the company whose project is being managed.


   Example of Project Management  

Let's say a project manager is tasked with leading a team to develop software products. They begin by identifying the scope of the project. They then assign tasks to the project team, which can include developers, engineers, technical writers, and quality assurance specialists. The project manager creates a schedule and sets deadlines.



Often, a project manager will use visual representations of workflow, such as Gantt charts or PERT charts, to determine which tasks are to be completed by which departments. They set a budget that includes sufficient funds to keep the project within budget even in the face of unexpected contingencies. The project manager also makes sure the team has the resources it needs to build, test, and deploy a software product.



When a large IT company acquires smaller companies, a key part of the project manager's job is to integrate project team members from various backgrounds and instill a sense of group purpose about meeting the end goal. Project managers may have some technical know-how but also have the important task of taking high-level corporate visions and delivering tangible results on time and within budget.




What Are the Key Steps in Project Management?
Project management can be broken down into five steps: initiation, planning, execution, monitoring, and closing. These obviously are broad steps, and a project manager's job is to apply them specifically to the project at hand in a way that is most efficient. How those steps are executed can vary depending on the type of project management being used.




What Are Examples of Project Types?
A common example of a project would be product development. Multiple departments are involved in creating the product, marketing it, selling it, and more. The team that designs a project is different from the teams that manufacture, market, or sell the product. As part of a project, each of these teams would be working with a project manager who helps move the product development from one stage to the next.




What Makes a Good Project Plan?
Communication is key to a good project plan. Each team's responsibilities should be detailed with a goal, a time frame, and resources available, for example. Visual explanations such as Gantt charts also are helpful. These are bar graphs that can show each stage of a project and, for example, the time when that stage will take place. This is just one example as the best way to outline a plan for those involved depends on the scope and details of the plan.


   The Bottom Line  

Project management is an important part of bringing different teams or different departments together to achieve a singular goal. If creating a product, for example, someone needs to design it, someone needs to build it, someone needs to test it, someone needs to market it, etc. The project manager helps define the ultimate goal of the project and set forth a timeline for how and when that project will be achieved. That way, for example, product testers and product marketers can know what to expect and when to expect it—as well as what they are expected to achieve when the project reaches their respective stages.
What Is a Projected Benefit Obligation (PBO)?  

A projected benefit obligation (PBO) is an actuarial measurement of what a company will need at the present time to cover future pension liabilities. This measurement is used to determine how much must be paid into a defined benefit pension plan to satisfy all pension entitlements that have been earned by employees up to that date, adjusted for expected future salary increases.





Key Takeaways

A projected benefit obligation (PBO) is an actuarial measurement of what a company will need at the present time to cover future pension liabilities.Projected benefit obligation (PBO) assumes that the plan will not terminate in the foreseeable future and is adjusted to reflect expected compensation in the years ahead.Actuaries are responsible for using the projected benefit obligation (PBO) in order to calculate whether or not pension plans are underfunded.


   How a Projected Benefit Obligation (PBO) Works  

Companies can provide employees with a number of benefits, including a salary, when they retire from work. The Financial Accounting Standards Board's (FASB) Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87 states that companies must measure and disclose their pension obligations, together with the performance of their plans, at the end of each accounting period.  



A projected benefit obligation (PBO) is one of three ways to calculate expenses or liabilities of traditional defined benefit pensions—plans that take into account employee years of service and salary to calculate retirement benefits.



PBO assumes that the pension plan will not terminate in the foreseeable future and is adjusted to reflect expected compensation in the years ahead. As a result, it takes into account a number of factors, including the following:



The estimated remaining service life of employees Assumed salary risesA forecast of employee mortality rates



Actuaries are responsible for establishing whether pension plans are underfunded. These qualified professionals, who specialize in the measurement and management of risk and uncertainty, determine the benefits needed through a present value calculation.



Actuaries are responsible for comparing the pension plan’s liabilities to its assets. In general, they provide a breakdown of the following:



Service costs: The increase in the present value of the defined benefit obligation, resulting from current employees getting another year's credit for their service.Interest costs: The annual interest accumulated on the unpaid balance of the PBO as an employee's service time increases.Actuarial gains or losses: The difference between the pension payments made by an employer and the anticipated amount. A gain occurs if the amount paid is less than expected. A loss occurs if the amount paid is higher than expected.Benefits paid: Obligations are reduced when benefits are paid out.



Establishing whether a company has an underfunded pension plan can be achieved by comparing pension plan assets—the investment fund referred to as the fair value of plan assets,—to the PBO. If the fair value of the plan assets is less than the benefit obligation, there is a pension shortfall. The company is required to disclose this information in a footnote in its 10-K annual financial statement. 



PBO is one of the three approaches firms use to measure and disclose pension obligations. The other measures are:



Accumulated benefit obligations (ABO): Unlike PBO, accumulated benefit obligations (ABO) refers to the present value of retirement benefits earned by employees using current compensation levels.  
Vested benefit obligations (VBO): The portion of the accumulated benefit obligation that employees will receive, irrespective of their continued participation in the company's pension plan.


   Example of Projected Benefit Obligations (PBO)  

In December 2018, General Motors’ U.S. pension plan had a PBO of $61.2 billion, with fair value of plan assets at $56.1 billion. In other words, this means its plan was 92% funded at that time. 















Source: U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.



Meanwhile, Ford's U.S. benefit obligation in December 2018 was $42.3 billion, while its plan assets had a fair value of $39.8 billion. That means Ford's plan was 94% funded, which is slightly better than General Motors.















Source: U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.


   Special Considerations  

Although a PBO is classified as a liability on the balance sheet, there is considerable criticism about whether it meets the predefined criteria to be defined as such. These criteria are the responsibility to surrender an asset from the result of the transactions taking place at a specified future date, the obligation for a company to surrender assets for the liability at some future point in time, and that the transaction resulting in the liability has already taken place.



Actuarial losses are treated differently by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the FASB.
What Is Promissory Estoppel?  

Promissory estoppel is the legal principle that a promise is enforceable by law, even if made without formal consideration when a promisor has made a promise to a promisee who then relies on that promise to his subsequent detriment. Promissory estoppel is intended to stop the promisor from arguing that an underlying promise should not be legally upheld or enforced.



The doctrine of promissory estoppel is part of the law in the United States and other countries, although the precise legal requirements for promissory estoppel vary not only between countries, but also between different jurisdictions, such as states, within the same country.





Key Takeaways

Estoppel is a legal principle that keeps people and businesses from, essentially, going back on their word or promise.Promissory estoppel helps injured parties to recover on promises made that have led to economic loss when not met.Promissory estoppel helps injured parties recover damages they suffer due to broken promises by another party. Promissory estoppel has different applications in different jurisdictions, so it is important to consult a lawyer before considering a case.


   Understanding Promissory Estoppel  

Promissory estoppel serves to enable an injured party to recover on a promise. There are common legally required elements for a person to make a claim for promissory estoppel: a promisor, a promisee, and a detriment that the promisee has suffered. An additional requirement is that the person making the claim—the promisee—must have reasonably relied on the promise. In other words, the promise was one that a reasonable person would ordinarily rely on.



Another requirement further qualifies the required detriment component; the promisee must have suffered an actual substantial detriment in the form of an economic loss that results from the promisor failing to deliver on their promise. Finally, promissory estoppel is usually only granted if a court determines that enforcing the promise is essentially the only means by which injustice to the promisee can be rectified.



An example of promissory estoppel might be applied in a case where an employer makes an oral promise to an employee to pay the employee a specified monthly or annual amount of money throughout the full duration of the employee's retirement. If the employee then subsequently retires based on a reliance on the employer's promise, the employer could be legally estopped from not delivering on his promise to make the specified retirement payments.


   Requirements of Promissory Estoppel  

There are three key ingredients for a legal case involving promissory estoppel: the promisor, the promisee, and promise that was not kept. In order to seek damages based on promissory estoppel, a plaintiff must show that:



The promisor made a promise, with the intention that a reasonable person would act on it;The promisee believed the promisor, and acted on that promise in good faith;The promisor later reneged on that promise causing financial harm to the promisee; and The nature of the promise is such that the only way to avoid injustice is by enforcing the promise.


   Promissory Estoppel as a Part of Contract Law  

Contract law generally requires that a person receive consideration for making a promise or agreement. Legal consideration is a valuable asset that is exchanged between two parties to a contract at the time of a promise or agreement.



Ordinarily, some form of consideration, either an exchange of money or a promise to refrain from some action, is required for a contract to be legally enforceable. However, in attempting to ensure justice or fairness, a court may enforce a promise even in the absence of any consideration, provided that the promise was reasonably relied on and that reliance on the promise resulted in a detriment to the promisee.


   Example of Promissory Estoppel  

As a hypothetical example, imagine a person working in New York who seeks a new job. After a certain number of interviews, they receive a job offer from an employer in California offering a high salary and relocation expenses. The prospective employee immediately quits their job, ends their tenancy, and begins to relocate to California.



Upon arrival in California, they learn that the job is no longer available, or has a greatly reduced salary. Because the employee relied on the employer's promise, they may be able to seek judicial relief for the expenses they incurred due to the employer's promise. As with other aspects of contract law, promissory estoppel is state-specific, so the employee would do best to consult a California attorney before pursuing legal action.




What Is the Difference Between a Contract and Promissory Estoppel?
In contract law, the doctrine of consideration states that there must be an exchange of consideration in order for a contract to be enforced. If one party fails to uphold their end of a contract, the other party can withdraw from that contract.Promissory estoppel is the exception to this rule. Under the doctrine of promissory estoppel, even the existence of a promise may be sufficient to enforce an agreement, if the other party has suffered damage as a result of acting on that promise.




What Is Equitable Estoppel?
Equitable estoppel is a legal doctrine that prevents a party from taking a position that is contrary to their previous position, if doing so harms the other party. This rule prevents someone from going back on their word in a court of law.




What Damages Can Be Recovered in Promissory Estoppel?
The rules for promissory estoppel vary by jurisdiction. Generally speaking, a successful case of promissory estoppel may result in the award of either reliance damages or expectation damages. Reliance damages are based on what it would cost to restore the promisee to their economic position before they relied on the broken promise, while expectation damages are based on the cost of putting the injured party in the same position as if the promise had been fulfilled.


   The Bottom Line  

Promissory estoppel is a legal doctrine that says parties may be liable for broken promises that result in financial harm. As with other legal issues, promissory estoppel cases are highly specific, meaning that it is worth consulting an attorney before pursuing legal action.
What Is a Promissory Note?  

A promissory note is a written and signed promise to repay a sum of money in exchange for a loan or other financing. A promissory note typically contains all the terms involved, such as the principal debt amount, interest rate, maturity date, payment schedule, the date and place of issuance, and the issuer's signature.



Although financial institutions may issue them—for instance, you might be required to sign a promissory note to take out a small personal loan—promissory notes also allow companies and individuals to get financing from a non-bank source. This source can be an individual or a company willing to carry the note (and provide the financing) under the agreed-upon terms. In effect, promissory notes can enable anyone to be a lender.





Key Takeaways

A promissory note is a financial instrument that contains a written promise by one party (the note's issuer or maker) to pay another party (the note's payee) a definite sum of money, either on demand or at a specified future date. A promissory note typically contains all the terms pertaining to the indebtedness, such as the principal amount, interest rate, maturity date, date and place of issuance, and issuer's signature.In terms of their legal enforceability, promissory notes lie somewhere between the informality of an IOU and the rigidity of a loan contract. 












Investopedia / Tara Anand


   How Promissory Notes Work  

Promissory notes can lie between an IOU's informality and a loan contract's rigidity. An IOU merely acknowledges a debt and the amount one party owes another. A promissory note includes a promise to pay on demand or at a specified future date, and steps required for repayment (like the repayment schedule).



In its simplest form, a promissory note might be a written promise to repay a family member. State or federal securities entities may regulate more complicated promissory notes.





Note

Typically, there are two parties to a promissory note: The promisor, also called the note's maker or issuer, promises to repay the amount borrowed. The promisee or payee is the person who gave the loan.


  Secured vs. Unsecured Promissory Notes  

A promissory note can be secured or unsecured. A secured promissory note describes the collateral—typically property—that secures the debt or amount borrowed. For example, if the borrower owns property, the lender can use the car as collateral until the debt is repaid. If the borrower doesn't repay the loan, the lender can take possession of the property.



An unsecured promissory note doesn't involve collateral. In this case, if the borrower doesn't repay the loan, the lender can try to use standard debt-collection procedures.



In either case, the lender holds the promissory note until the debt is repaid. Typically, those drafting a promissory note will consult with an attorney to make sure the note follows any state or federal laws around loans or investments.


   A Brief History of Promissory Notes  

Promissory notes have had an interesting history. At times, they have circulated as a form of alternate currency, free of government control. In some places, the official currency is in fact a form of promissory note called a demand note (one with no stated maturity date or fixed term, allowing the lender to decide when to demand payment).



Promissory notes and bills of exchange are governed by the 1930 Geneva Convention of Uniform Law on Bills of Exchange and Promissory Notes. Its rules also stipulate that the term "promissory note" should be inserted in the instrument's body and contain an unconditional promise to pay.



In the United States, promissory notes are often used in when getting a mortgage, student loan, or a loan from a friend or family member. They're also sometimes issued to corporate clients.






A promissory note is usually held by the party owed money; once the debt has been fully paid, the note must be canceled by the payee and returned to the issuer.


   What's Included in a Promissory Note?  

A promissory note should include all the details about a loan and the repayment terms. In addition to the names of the borrower and the lender, it may also include:



Name and address of borrower and lenderMaturity dateSum borrowedPayment scheduleInterest rate and how interest is calculatedPrepayments processOverdue payment interest chargedDefaultWaivers, amendments, and governing law for the promissory note


   Promissory Note Repayment  

There are several different structures for repayment of a promissory note, but most involve repaying the principal plus interest. The interest rate can be fixed or variable and calculated daily, monthly, annually, or another way. In some states, interest rates may be capped by state law. A certified accountant and attorney can advise you on the tax or legal implications of the promissory note's repayment schedule.



Here are various repayment approaches for a promissory note:



Installment note: The most familiar repayment approach is through installments, with the borrower making regular payments; the repayment schedule and interest payments can vary.
Simple note: For smaller loans, borrowers might arrange a lump-sum repayment on a specified date, meaning that's when you'll repay the whole amount in the promissory note.
Open-ended note: This promissory note allows you to draw on an operating or other loan over time and repay your draw plus interest by a specific date.
Demand note: Sometimes, a promissory note may specify "on demand" repayment, meaning that the note must be repaid at the lender's request at any time.


   Types of Promissory Notes  
  Student Loan Promissory Notes  

Many people sign their first promissory notes as part of getting a student loan. Private lenders typically require students to sign promissory notes for each loan taken out.



Some schools allow federal student loan borrowers to sign a one-time master promissory note, allowing receipt of multiple loans for up to 10 years if the school certifies the student's continued eligibility.



Student loan promissory notes outline the student borrower's rights and responsibilities and the loan's conditions and terms. By signing a master promissory note for federal student loans, the student promises to repay the loan amounts plus interest and fees to the U.S. Department of Education.



The master promissory note also includes the student's personal contact and employment information and the names and contact info for the student's references.


  Mortgage Promissory Notes  

Homeowners usually consider their mortgage an obligation to repay the money they borrowed to buy their residence. But actually, the signed promissory note represents a promise to repay the mortgage or loan, along with the repayment terms.



Typically, the Note includes:



Amount you oweMortgage loan's interest rateWays your interest rate can change, if you have an Adjustable Rate Mortgage (ARM)Payment datesRepayment length of timeWhere you send paymentsConsequences of not making monthly mortgage payments



The promissory note describes the debt's amount, interest rate, and late fees. A lender holds the promissory note until the mortgage loan is paid off. Unlike the mortgage or deed of trust, the promissory note is not entered into county land records.


  Corporate Credit Promissory Notes  

Promissory notes are commonly used in business as a means of short-term financing. For example, when a company sells products but hasn't yet collected payments, cash may run low, leaving the company unable to pay creditors. The company may ask creditors to accept a promissory note to be exchanged for cash after the company collects its accounts receivables.



Or the company may ask the bank for cash in exchange for a promissory note. Promissory notes offer companies a credit source after exhausting other options, like corporate loans or bond issues. A note issued by a company in this situation is at a higher risk of default than, say, a corporate bond. The corporate promissory note's interest rate will likely provide a greater return than a bond from the same company, as high risk means higher potential returns.



These notes must be registered with the government in the state where sold and with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).



If the note is not registered, the investor has to analyze whether the company is capable of servicing the debt. Companies in dire straits may hire high-commission brokers to push unregistered notes on the public. If the company defaults, the investors' legal avenues may be somewhat limited.


   Investing in Promissory Notes  

Company or corporate promissory notes are rarely sold to the public. When they are, it is usually at the behest of a struggling company working through unscrupulous brokers who are willing to sell promissory notes that the company may not be able to honor.



Or the note may be part of a scam sold by life insurance agents or online or out-of-state investment advisors. Some sellers may know nothing about the investments' true origins—the notes may be for companies that don't exist. Notes promising "low risk, high yield" investments may lead to a type of fraud, according to the SEC.



Before investing in promissory notes, ensure all of the following are true:



The person selling the "promissory notes" is licensed to sell securities The company offering promissory notes is legitimate and can repay debtsPromissory notes are properly registered the SEC, state securities regulator or legally exempt from registrationIf guaranteed or insured by a foreign insurance company, contact your state department of insurance to make sure the company can do business in the U.S.



Investing in promissory notes involves risk. These notes are only offered to corporate or sophisticated investors who can handle the risks and have the money needed to buy the note. To help minimize these risks, an investor must register the note or have it notarized so that the obligation is publicly recorded and legal.




What Does a Promissory Note Contain?
A form of debt instrument, a promissory note represents a written promise on the part of the issuer to pay back another party. A promissory note will include the agreed-upon terms between the two parties, such as the maturity date, principal, interest, and issuer’s signature. Essentially, a promissory note allows entities aside from financial institutions the ability to provide lending mechanisms to other entities.




What Is an Example of a Promissory Note?
One example of a promissory note is a corporate credit promissory note. For this type of promissory note, a company will be typically seeking a short-term loan. In the case of a growing startup that is low on cash as it expands its operations, terms of the agreement could state that the company pays back the loan once its accounts receivable are collected.There are a number of other different types of promissory notes, including investment promissory notes, take-back mortgages, and student loan promissory notes. 




What Are the Pros and Cons of a Promissory Note?
A promissory note can be advantageous when an entity is unable to find a loan from a traditional lender, such as a bank. However, promissory notes can be much riskier because the lender does not have the means and scale of resources found within financial institutions. At the same time, legal issues could arise for both the issuer and payee in the event of default. Because of this, getting a promissory note notarized can be important.


   The Bottom Line  

A promissory note is a written promise by one party to make a payment of money at a date in the future. Although potentially issued by financial institutions, other organizations or individuals can use promissory notes to confirm the agreed terms of a loan. In short, a promissory note allows anyone to act as a lender. However, the average investor should be wary of and heavily research any sales pitches for promissory notes as an investment.
What Is a Promoter?  

A stock promoter is an individual or organization that helps raise money for some investment activity. Stock promoters may raise money for a company by offering investment vehicles other than traditional stocks and bonds, such as limited partnerships and direct investment activities. Often, promoters are paid in company stock, or they receive a percentage of the capital raised.





Key Takeaways

A promoter is an individual or organization that helps raise money for some investment activity.Promoters often tout penny stocks, an area where false promises and misrepresentation of the company or its prospects have become commonplace.Promoters can also be writers who review or write about a company for compensation, which can lead to skewed analyses.Promoters do not need to be licensed or have any particular qualifications.Stock promoting is not illegal as long as the compensation information is disclosed.


   How a Promoter Works  

Investment promoters bring information about a specified investment to the attention of potential investors. They may target domestic or foreign investors depending on the investment in question. The goal is to locate capital that may have otherwise been invested elsewhere based on the limited knowledge available about the promoted investment opportunity.






The goal of stock promoters is to locate capital. Information is distributed to attract potential investors to the stock. However, that information is often misleading.


   Types of Promoters  
  Penny Stock Promoter  

The use of stock promoters is fairly common in the penny stock market. Promoting activity can include positive testimonials or other information provided for free via a website or newsletter, as well as more personal sales attempts.



By increasing excitement surrounding the particular investment, the demand for the shares is likely to increase, pushing up the share price. This generates additional revenue for the business by allowing certain shareholders an opportunity to sell their shares at a higher price.


  Government-Based Trade Promoter  

Certain government entities, such as the International Trade Administration (ITA)—part of the U.S. Department of Commerce—assist U.S. companies with issues regarding foreign markets. This can include assistance with promotional activities and issues surrounding the exportation of goods.


  Casual Promoters  

A business's customers can become casual promoters. If a customer has a good experience with a product or service, that customer may share that information with other potential customers or investors.






The investments promoted by individual promoters or promotion firms are not formally registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and many are linked to investment scams.


   Criticism of Promoters  

Promoters may give the false impression that investing in the represented opportunity is more likely to succeed than others, even to the point of suggesting that it cannot fail. The same risks exist with promoted investment opportunities as with any similar style of investment. Because the investments promoted by individual promoters or promotion firms are not formally registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), some promoters have been linked to an inordinately high number of investment scams and litigation.



Thus, not all stock promotion activities are considered legal. For example, in 2015, a stock promoter, Jason Wynn, and the chief executive officer (CEO) of the promoted company, Martin Cantu of Connect-a-Jet, were found guilty of securities fraud. This was related to the willful deceit of potential investors through the use of false information in a variety of advertising that led to increased interest in the company’s shares.



Further risks exist where certain writers are compensated for promoting a particular investment. In situations where a person is compensated to review a particular stock, there are concerns that the information provided is skewed and is more positive about the investment than may be appropriate.


   Stock Promoter vs. Stockbroker  

Stock promoters are not required to have licensing or educational credentials. Stockbrokers, on the other hand, require at least a bachelor's degree and must be licensed. To obtain a license, stockbrokers must pass a series of exams administered by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA).



Penny stock companies are less tightly regulated than big companies, and they are traded less often, which encourages market manipulation. The SEC and Department of Justice investigate and prosecute stock promoters for criminal and civil violations every year.


   Promoter FAQs  
  What Defines a Promoter?  

A promoter is an individual or organization that helps raise money for some investment activity, such as penny stocks.


  What Is the Role of the Promoter?  

Stock promoters are individuals or companies hired to create media buzz and increase the demand for a stock. Investment promoters bring information about a specified investment to the attention of potential investors. This artificially inflates the share price, and the company gains capital.


  What Is an Example of a Promoter?  

An example of a promoter is a penny stock promoter. This type of promoter may engage in "pump and dump" activities. Here, a promoter might spur a buying spree for a stock by procuring a huge equity stake themselves implying that the stock is expected to grow. Then, as share prices peak, the stock promoter will dump or resell their shares, which drives down the market. Buyers of the penny stock stand to lose huge amounts through resale in the secondary market.


  Is Stock Promoting Illegal?  

Promoting a stock is not illegal as long as the required disclosures are made. Section 17(b) of the Securities Act requires that promoters disclose the fact that they’re compensated and state the kind and amount of that compensation. However, promoters are often untruthful about the amount of the compensation.


  How Do Stock Promoters Get Paid?  

Promoters are paid in company stock, or they receive a percentage of the capital raised.


   The Bottom Line  

Unlike stockbrokers who must be licensed by FINRA, stock promoters are not required to have licensing or educational credentials. Therefore, the information provided by promoters may serve simply to raise money for some investment activity and is unlikely to reflect a balanced perspective. Investors should pay attention to who is paying the promoter for their efforts and conduct their own research and due diligence before investing.
What Is a Promotion?  

Promotion refers to a variety of actions intended to raise greater awareness or advancement of an item. In terms of a career, promotion refers to advancing an employee's rank or position in a hierarchical structure. In marketing, promotion refers to increasing intention on a product through advertising or a discounted price.





Key Takeaways

A promotion can refer to the advancement of an employee's position, creating awareness around certain product deals, or creating buzz around little-known stocks.Promotions are applied frequently in the marketing sector.The term is used differently in different contexts, the most popular being a job promotion.In investments, a promotion creates awareness of little-known stocks in the hope of increasing demand and the price of the stock.Promotion marketing materials can include t-shirts, postcards, and keychains. These items are often called "swag" in the marketing world.


   Understanding Promotions  

A promotion can occur in a variety of ways in business, marketing, and careers. The dictionary definition of promotion is the act or fact of being raised in rank or position. This may occur in relation to people, products, or financial instruments.



An alternative definition is an act of furthering the growth or development of something. In many different types of promotions, a company often contributes additional resources to promote the growth of an item. For example, a company often promotes an employee to a new role by giving them higher pay; alternatively, a company can promote a product by paying marketing costs.



All types of promotions are discretionary spending. This means that promotions are not required to happen. However, a company will often perform an evaluation prior to a promotion to analyze the benefits of the promotion compared to the costs. For example, the incremental salary cost for an employee may not outweigh the benefits that promoted employee will contribute.


   Job Promotions  

A job promotion is usually handed to an employee who has displayed exceptional performance or has developed the appropriate skills and knowledge necessary to take on additional job responsibilities. In the latter case, the employee may need to work for a company for a required amount of time or have management tenure to be eligible for a promotion.



According to Indeed, an employee that has been promoted and switches jobs may expect an average pay raise between 10% and 20%. However, employees may receive an assortment of other benefits instead. For example, an employee may receive a better title, better office, and career development. In general, a promotion usually is accompanied by a combination of the above.






Approach your human resources representative to discuss getting promoted. They often have insight as to your performance, company policy, and expectations.


  How to Ask for a Job Promotion  

For some, job promotions may come as a surprise or without having to ask. In this case, a company will award a hard-working employee with career advancement. For others, they may be in a situation where asking for a promotion will alert their job of a desire for career advancement and result in feedback on what it will take. Here are some broad tips for asking for a job promotion:



Research your value. Before asking for a job promotion, understand what skills and knowledge you have and what they translate to in the job market. Explore what skills open job postings are asking for and how much those jobs pay. Communicate with other professionals in your field about their opinion on what you should be getting paid. Consult online salary estimators to see if your current pay (or prospective pay in a promoted role) is in line with what you want to ask for.
Understand the big picture. There may be circumstances that warrant waiting or timing your ask. For example, some companies have limited windows in which their companies consider promotions. Get a sense of extenuating circumstances such as your company's performance to budget, sales numbers, or outstanding risks. Understand what is happening in the macroeconomic environment to understand what the future of the company may looks like. A discouraging but important facet of job promotions is understanding that sometimes, a promotion won't happen because of elements outside of your control.
Consult your manager. When asking for a promotion, emphasize your value and what your bring to the company. Demonstrate the specifics you bring that would be difficult to replace. Do not focus on your pay or position compared to other individuals; keep the discussion focused on you, your achievements, and your aspirations.
Be flexible and understanding. You may receive feedback on why you have not been promoted and why you are not slated to be promoted. Attempt to take the advice positively, even if you disagree with it. There may truly be an opportunity for you to learn and become better at your job. Alternatively, companies may say it isn't quite time. It's then up to you to decide whether to risk waiting for no promotion or trust in the company and continue delivering results.


  Example of Job Promotion  

At universities and colleges, one type of promotion is the jump from being a tenured track assistant professor to a tenured full professor. Depending on the college or university, the promotion from assistant to full professor comes with a substantial salary bump. An assistant professor may earn over $90,000, but when promoted to a full professor, could earn well over $160,000.


   Product Promotions and Sales  

Promotions also apply to the marketing sector. In marketing, a brand, company, product, or service uses promotions to increase or improve the promoted asset's perception and boost sales. Promotional tactics run the gamut—from coupons to "two-for" sales (buy one, get a second one free) to straight dollar markdowns or percentage discounts.



Sales promotions are conducted through online media such as social media platforms, digital communications such as mobile SMS, print media such as newspapers, or in a physical location such as a retail store. Other ways to promote a business or product include word of mouth, business cards, and flyers.


  Types of Marketing Promotions  

A company may choose to increase the awareness of their products through a variety of promotion techniques. The most common types of marketing promotions include:



Word of Mouth: The traditional form of promotion, word of mouth promoting entails a customer with a positive experience sharing their feelings with other customers. Essentially a free type of marketing exposure, word-of-mouth promotion may be unreliable as there is no guarantee that happy customers will always share the news with their friends or family.
Direct Marketing: With the introduction of social media, direct marketing now allows companies to pay for targeted advertising that attracts attention from individuals and informs them of the company's goods. Companies can target individuals based on their search history or who they follow on social media.
Website: Another means of digital promotion, companies now often have robust, information websites that convey product information, company history, and customer reviews. All of this information is meant to convince a prospective customer to buy a good or service.
Sales: One of the more recognizable means of promoting a good is to have a sale or price discount. Instead of emphasizing the characteristics of the good, a sales promotion brings attention to a discounted price. As customers consider the price, they are more likely to be engaged and research the discounted good.
Public Relations: Companies can also promote business activity by being good stewards to the community and having a positive external image. A company's brand promotes a sense of identity that consumers may want to engage or be associated with.






Broadly speaking, every type of marketing is a type of promotion. Whether it's a billboard in Times Square or a flyer on the street corner, the central goal of marketing is to promote a good and raise awareness for a product.


  Example of Product Promotion  

A few months or weeks before kids go back to school, retailers often use product promotions to draw shoppers into a competitive market. For example, Target has historically offered teachers coupons worth 15% off of school supplies over the summer leading up to school.



The holidays are another time of year when product promotions go into full swing, and sales and deals promote products in many retail sectors from food to fashion. In this example, product promotions may be more to raise awareness of unique or new products that might be fitting as a holiday gift.


   Security Promotions  

Capital markets also use promotions. Stock or security promotions are carried out when an individual or a group wants to hype a stock. Unfortunately, stock promotions in the capital market are mostly fraudulent schemes carried out by people who already own shares in their portfolios. These shares usually are priced really low and are from little-known companies with no solid financial fundamentals.



If the promoter’s tactics work and more people buy the stock, the value of the stock will go up. When this happens, the stock promoter sells or dumps all of their shares on the market in classic pump-and-dump style. Stock promoters use various vehicles to promote the stock, including advertising online, cold calling, and digital email spam. Investment promotion refers to creating awareness of little-known stocks to increase demand, and thus the price of the stock.





DYOR

Instead of relying on the marketing material from others, many investors suggest to "do your own research" to drawn your own conclusions about what to invest in.


  Example of Security Promotion  

With the proliferation of cryptocurrency coins and tokens, it has been increasingly easier for promoters to hype a security, wait until market participants have bought in, then dump their holdings to yield massive gains. As such, always be mindful when investing in new, young securities with unproven financial histories.



One such case involved EthereumMax. After releasing its token, EthereumMax enlisted the help of several celebrities to promote the security. After obtaining an all-time high price in May 2021, the token has since dropped over 99% as of September 2022. As a result, some promoters including Kim Kardashian are facing potential litigation for securities fraud.




How Do You Show a Promotion on a Resume?
You can show a promotion on a resume by listing it as a separate line item above your previous job. Your goal should be to demonstrate that you had escalating responsibility while working for a single company; this is often done by listing each role on a different line to clearly show job growth.




What Is a Health Promotion?
According to the World Health Organization's website, health promotion allows people to gain control of their health in a variety of social and environmental ways that are "designed to benefit and protect individual people’s health and quality of life by addressing and preventing the root causes of ill health, not just focusing on treatment and cure."




What Is Cross-Promotion in Marketing?
Cross-promotion in marketing is when one brand collaborates and teams up with another brand to promote each other's products across multiple marketing platforms. For example, retailer J.Crew sells clothing and accessories from other designers on its website under the marketing promotion called "brands we love."




Why Is Getting Promoted at Work Important?
For some, it isn't. If you're entirely happy with your job and your pay, a promotion may not be important to you. For others seeking more money or more responsibility, a promotion is a crucial step to developing one's career.


   The Bottom Line  

A promotion can occur in marketing, careers, the stock market, and even global health endeavors. The term promotion is most frequently used in the job market to describe a rise in job title, duties, salary, or all three. Promotions of products are used in marketing and business, and in the stock market, a stock promotion is used to boost the sale of little-known stocks.
What Are Proof of Funds?  

Proof of funds (POF) refers to a document or documents that demonstrate a person or entity has the ability and funds available for a specific transaction. Proof of funds usually comes in the form of a bank, security, or custody statement. The purpose of the proof of funds document is to ensure that the funds needed to execute the transaction fully are accessible and legitimate.





Key Takeaways

Proof of funds refers to a document that demonstrates the ability of an individual or entity to pay for a specific transaction.A bank statement, security statement, or custody statement usually qualify as proof of funds.Proof of funds is typically required for a large transaction, such as the purchase of a house.Basic information, such as the bank name and address, bank statement, total balance amounts, a bank personnel's signature, is required on the proof of funds document.Proof of funds and proof of deposit are often both needed when applying for a mortgage.


   Understanding Proof of Funds  

When an individual or entity is making a large purchase, such as buying a home, the seller usually requires proof of funds. This ensures not only that the buyer has the money available to make the purchase, but also has legal access to the funds, as the proof of funds comes from a verified authority, such as a bank. Particularly for the purchase of a home, the seller and/or mortgage company wants to see if you have enough money for the down payment and the closing costs.



It's important to note that in the majority of instances, the proof of funds must refer to liquid capital, primarily cash. Certain investments, such as retirement accounts, mutual fund accounts, and life insurance, do not qualify as proof of funds.


   Requirements of a Proof of Funds Documents  

When providing a proof of funds document, there is certain information that is required to be included. The following are some of the most common pieces of information that will need to be disclosed on a proof of funds document:



Bank's name and addressOfficial bank statementBalance of funds in the checking and savings accountsBalance of total fundsSignature of authorized bank personnel



If the funds you plan to use for the purchase are spread across multiple accounts, you will need this information for all of them. It may be easier to move all of your funds into one account, therefore having to provide this information only once, and making the total amount of funds available easier to follow. It is possible to get a proof of funds document within a day or two from most banks.



Once you have your proof of funds document in hand you want to ensure that it is secure at all times. Some con-artists planning a financial scam may seek/request a proof of funds to make sure that they are concentrating their efforts on someone with significant financial worth. In addition, it contains important financial information that should be safeguarded. Therefore, it is important to make sure that you only give proof of funds to trusted individuals whom you have thoroughly investigated.






The requesting party will often stipulate the required components of the proof of funds documentation; these requirements will often vary from one party to another.


   Uses of Proof of Funds Documentation  

Proof of funds documentation is commonly used in a wide range of financial transaction or business situations. Some of the more common situations may include but are not limited to:



Real Estate Transactions: To verify that the buyer has the money to finish the transaction, sellers or their representatives frequently demand proof of funds documentation.
Investment Opportunities: Proof of funds may be required to verify the investor's financial capacity when investing in specific opportunities such as private placements or business purchases.
Loan Applications: To determine a borrower's capacity to make down payments or pay closing expenses, lenders may ask for proof of money.
Immigration Applications: Immigration authorities may ask applicants to provide proof of their financial ability to sustain themselves during their stay or while settling in a new country.
Business Transactions: In order to confirm the financial competence of the parties involved in mergers, acquisitions, or partnerships, proof of funds documentation may be needed.
Creating a Trust: Establishing a trust account may require providing proof of funds to show the initial funding or continuous financial capability to operate the trust.
Contract Bidding: When taking part in contract bidding procedures, especially for government or large-scale projects, proof of funds may be needed to show the financial capacity to meet the criteria of the contract.
Private Sales: In private sales or high-value transactions, sellers may ask for proof of funds to make sure the buyer has the money needed to complete the transaction. This may relate to industries above (i.e. real estate) or in other high-value industries such as art or collectibles.
Business Licensing: To ensure financial viability and compliance with regulatory criteria, proof of cash may be required when applying for various business licenses or permits.
Franchise Opportunities: When considering purchasing a franchise, proof of funds may be required to demonstrate financial capability and suitability as a franchisee.
Auction Participation: Proof of funds may be necessary when participating in auctions to show the ability to meet bidding requirements or payment obligations.
Escrow Transactions: Proof of funds may be requested when entering into escrow agreements to ensure that the necessary funds are available for the agreed-upon transaction.






You may often redact or hide sensitive, non-pertinent information being reported on a proof of fund document.


   Proof of Funds vs. Proof of Deposit  

In commercial banking, proof of deposit is the financial institution’s verification that funds have been deposited into an account and where these deposits came from. To do so, the institution will compare the amount written on the check to the amount on the deposit slip. When applying for a mortgage, in addition to demonstrating proof of funds, a buyer will have to demonstrate that funds in fact have been deposited into an account and demonstrate where they came from.



Mortgage companies typically want to see where the deposits originate from, whether they come from the borrower or are they gifts from other parties. This helps determine if the borrower will be able to furnish the mortgage loan.



In addition to a proof of funds document and a proof of deposit, a pre-approval letter is required to give to the seller or the seller's agent when purchasing a home. The pre-approval letter will prove that you are able to obtain a mortgage to pay for the rest of the home purchase.




What Types of Documents Can Be Used As Proof of Funds?
Common types of proof of funds documents include bank statements, investment account statements, balance certificates issued by financial institutions, and letters from financial institutions confirming the availability of funds.




How Recent Should the Proof of Funds Document Be?
The freshness requirement for proof of funds documents can vary, but generally documents no older than 90 days are considered acceptable. Be mindful that certain circumstances may call for documents no older than 30 days. For example, when closing on a mortgage, your mortgage lender will often require proof of funds documentation from the most recent month available.




Can I Use Digital or Scanned Copies of Proof of Funds Documents?
In many cases, digital or scanned copies of proof of funds documents are acceptable, as long as they are clear and legible. However, it is advisable to verify the specific requirements of the involved parties or institutions.




Are There Any Specific Formatting Requirements for a Proof of Funds Document?
While formatting requirements may vary, the document should clearly display necessary information such as the account holder's name, account number, financial institution details, and the available balance. In addition to substantiating the financial information, the user of the proof of funds documentation will want sufficient evidence that you are the owner of the account.


   The Bottom Line  

Proof of funds documents are financial statements or documents that demonstrate an individual or entity's ability to cover a specific amount of funds. They are required in various transactions to verify the availability of funds and minimize risks. Common types of proof of funds documents include bank statements, investment statements, and letters. These documents must be recent, formatted properly, and comply with specific requirements.
What Is Proof-of-Stake (PoS)?  

Proof-of-stake is a cryptocurrency consensus mechanism for processing transactions and creating new blocks in a blockchain. A consensus mechanism is a method for validating entries into a distributed database and keeping the database secure. In the case of cryptocurrency, the database is called a blockchain—so the consensus mechanism secures the blockchain.



Learn more about proof-of-stake and how it is different from proof-of-work. Additionally, find out the issues proof-of-stake attempts to address within the cryptocurrency industry.





Key Takeaways

Under proof-of-stake (POS), validators are chosen based on the number of staked coins they have.Proof-of-stake (POS) was created as an alternative to proof-of-work (POW), the original consensus mechanism used to validate transactions and open new blocks.While PoW mechanisms require miners to solve cryptographic puzzles, PoS mechanisms require validators to hold and stake tokens for the privilege of earning transaction fees.Proof-of-stake (POS) is seen as less risky regarding the potential for an attack on the network, as it structures compensation in a way that makes an attack less advantageous.The next block writer on the blockchain is selected at random, with higher odds being assigned to nodes with larger stake positions.












Investopedia / Crea Taylor


   Understanding Proof-of-Stake (PoS)  

Proof-of-stake reduces the amount of computational work needed to verify blocks and transactions. Under proof-of-work, hefty computing requirements kept the blockchain secure. Proof-of-stake changes the way blocks are verified using the machines of coin owners, so there doesn't need to be as much computational work done. The owners offer their coins as collateral—staking—for the chance to validate blocks and earn rewards.



Validators are selected randomly to confirm transactions and validate block information. This system randomizes who gets to collect fees rather than using a competitive rewards-based mechanism like proof-of-work.



To become a validator, a coin owner must "stake" a specific amount of coins. For instance, Ethereum requires 32 ETH to be staked before a user can operate a node. Blocks are validated by multiple validators, and when a specific number of validators verify that the block is accurate, it is finalized and closed.






To activate your own validator, you'll need to stake 32 ETH; however, you don't need to stake that much ETH to participate in validation. You can join validation pools using "liquid staking" which uses an ERC-20 token that represents your ETH.



Different proof-of-stake mechanisms may use various methods to reach a consensus. For example, when Ethereum introduces sharding, a validator will verify the transactions and add them to a shard block, which requires no more than 128 validators to form a voting "committee." Once shards are validated and a block created, two-thirds of the validators must agree that the transaction is valid, then the block is closed.


   How Is Proof-of-Stake Different From Proof-of-Work?  

Both consensus mechanisms help blockchains synchronize data, validate information, and process transactions. Each method has proven successful at maintaining a blockchain, although each has pros and cons. However, the two algorithms have very different approaches.



Under PoS, block creators are called validators. A validator checks transactions, verifies activity, votes on outcomes, and maintains records. Under PoW, block creators are called miners. Miners work to solve for the hash, a cryptographic number, to verify transactions. In return for solving the hash, they are rewarded with a coin.



To "buy into" the position of becoming a block creator, you need to own enough coins or tokens to become a validator on a PoS blockchain. For PoW, miners must invest in processing equipment and incur hefty energy charges to power the machines attempting to solve the computations.



The equipment and energy costs under PoW mechanisms are expensive, limiting access to mining and strengthening the security of the blockchain. PoS blockchains reduce the amount of processing power needed to validate block information and transactions. The mechanism also lowers network congestion and removes the rewards-based incentive PoW blockchains have.









Proof of Stake
Proof of Work




Block creators are called validators
Block creators are called miners


Participants must own coins or tokens to become a validator
Participants must buy equipment and energy to become a miner


Energy efficient
Not energy efficient


Security through community control
Robust security due to expensive upfront requirement


Validators receive transactions fees as rewards
Miners receive block rewards





   Goals of Proof-of-Stake  

Proof-of-stake is designed to reduce network congestion and address environmental sustainability concerns surrounding the proof-of-work (PoW) protocol. Proof-of-work is a competitive approach to verifying transactions, which naturally encourages people to look for ways to gain an advantage, especially since monetary value is involved.



Bitcoin miners earn bitcoin by verifying transactions and blocks. However, they pay their operating expenses like electricity and rent with fiat currency. So what's really happening is that miners exchange energy for cryptocurrency, which causes PoW mining to use as much energy as some small countries.



The PoS mechanism seeks to solve these problems by effectively substituting staking for computational power, whereby the network randomizes an individual's mining ability. This means there should be a drastic reduction in energy consumption since miners can no longer rely on massive farms of single-purpose hardware to gain an advantage. For example, Ethereum's transition from PoW to PoS reduced the blockchain's energy consumption by 99.84%.






The first cryptocurrency to adopt the PoS method was Peercoin. It was followed by Nxt, Blackcoin, and ShadowCoin soon after.


   Proof-of-Stake Security  

Long touted as a threat to cryptocurrency fans, the 51% attack is a concern when PoS is used, but there is doubt it will occur. Under PoW, a 51% attack is when an entity controls more than 50% of the miners in a network and uses that majority to alter the blockchain. In PoS, a group or individual would have to own 51% of the staked cryptocurrency.



It's very expensive to control 51% of staked cryptocurrency. Under Ethereum's PoS, if a 51% attack occurred, the honest validators in the network could vote to disregard the altered blockchain and burn the offender(s) staked ETH. This incentivizes validators to act in good faith to benefit the cryptocurrency and the network.



Most other security features of PoS are not advertised, as this might create an opportunity to circumvent security measures. However, most PoS systems have extra security features in place that add to the inherent security behind blockchains and PoS mechanisms.




What Is Proof-of-Stake vs. Proof-of-Work?
Proof-of-Stake (POS) uses randomly selected validators to confirm transactions and create new blocks. Proof-of-Work (POW) uses a competitive validation method to confirm transactions and add new blocks to the blockchain.




Is Proof-of-Stake a Certificate?
Proof-of-Stake is a consensus mechanism where cryptocurrency validators share the task of validating transactions. There are currently no certificates issued.




How Do You Earn Proof-of-Stake?
Proof of Stake (POS) is a built-in consensus mechanism used by a blockchain network. It cannot be earned, but you can help secure a network and earn rewards by using a cryptocurrency client that participates in PoS validating or becoming a validator.




Can Bitcoin Be Converted to Proof-of-Stake?
It's possible that Bitcoin can change to proof-of-stake. However, it takes years to implement successfully, and the community would need to agree to the change.


   The Bottom Line  

Proof-of-stake is a mechanism used to verify blockchain transactions. It differs from proof-of-work significantly, mainly in the fact that it incentivizes honest behavior by rewarding those who put their crypto up as collateral for a chance to earn more.



The comments, opinions, and analyses expressed on Investopedia are for informational purposes online. Read our warranty and liability disclaimer for more info. As of the date this article was written, the author does not own bitcoin or ether.
What Is Proof of Work (PoW)?  

Proof of work (PoW) describes a consensus mechanism that requires a significant amount of computing effort from a network of devices. The concept was adapted digital tokens by Hal Finney in 2004 through the idea of "reusable proof of work" using the 160-bit secure hash algorithm 1 (SHA-1).



Following its introduction in 2009, Bitcoin became the first widely adopted application of Finney's PoW idea (Finney was also the recipient of the first bitcoin transaction). Proof of work forms the basis of many other cryptocurrencies, allowing for secure consensus.





Key Takeaways

Proof of work (PoW) is a decentralized consensus mechanism that requires network members to expend effort in solving an encrypted hexadecimal number.Proof of work is also called mining, in reference to receiving a reward for work done.Proof of work allows for secure peer-to-peer transaction processing without needing a trusted third party.Proof of work at scale requires vast amounts of energy, which only increases as more miners join the network.


   Understanding Proof of Work  

This explanation will focus on proof of work as it functions in the Bitcoin network. Commonly called a cryptocurrency, Bitcoin is technically a token—a representation of ownership of value on the Bitcoin blockchain. The ownership of the token can be exchanged for something of equal value, much like how you hand someone a dollar for a candy bar—they now have the dollar and you have the candy bar.


   Proof of Work Blockchains  

Blockchains are distributed ledgers that record all bitcoin transactions, similarly to how you would enter transactions in a spreadsheet. Each block is similar to a cell. Information such as transaction amounts, wallet addresses, time, and date are recorded and encrypted into a block header—a hexadecimal number created through the blockchain's hashing function.



The hash from each block is used in the block that follows it when its hash is created. This creates a ledger of chained blocks that cannot be altered because the information from every block is included in the newest block's hash.


  Hashes  

When a block is closed, the hash must be verified before a new block can be opened. This is where proof of work comes in. The hash is a 64-digit encrypted hexadecimal number. With modern technology, a hash can be generated in milliseconds for a large amount of data. However, miners try to guess that hash, which takes a very long time in computing terms.






Mining is the process of validating transactions by solving the hash and receiving a reward.


  Nonce  

The hash includes a series of numbers called the nonce, short for "number used once." When a miner—the program on a node that works to solve the hash—begins mining, it generates a hash from publicly available information using a nonce equal to zero.


  Solving the Hash  

If the hash is lower than the current network target, the miner has successfully solved the hash. The network target is a mathematical result of a formula converted to a hexadecimal number that dictates the mining difficulty.



If the hash is greater than the target, the mining program adds a value of 1 to the nonce and generates a hash again. The entire network of miners tries to solve the hash this way. On the Bitcoin blockchain, the miner that solves the hash is given the current reward for the work done.


   Proof of Work vs. Proof of Stake  

The two most popular consensus mechanisms are proof of work and proof of stake. Bitcoin's top competitor Ethereum used proof of work on its blockchain until September 2022, when the highly-anticipated transition to proof of stake was made. Here are some of the key differences between the two.





Proof of Work

Validation is done by a network of miners
Bitcoin paid as a reward and for transaction fees
Competitive nature uses lots of energy and computational power



Proof of Stake

Validation is done by participants who offer ether as collateral
Ether is paid for transaction fees only
Less computational power and energy used





   Special Considerations  

Mining is a competitive process, so it has become a race between those with the most computational power. So, miners join pools to increase their chances of receiving a reward because it takes an enormous amount of computing work to be competitive.



On Feb. 9, 2023, the mining pool FoundryUSA accounted for nearly 32% of the Bitcoin network's three-day hashrate—the number of hashes a network can perform per second. FoundryUSA hashed 89.81 exa hashes per second (EH/s)—the pool generated nearly 90 quintillion (90 x 1018) hashes per second.






Single or individual PoW miners are not able to compete with pools for rewards.



Proof of work is also known for its energy consumption. The University of Cambridge tracks the Bitcoin network energy demand and uses a "best guess estimate" to determine its usage. The network uses as much energy as some small countries; however, it's important to note that industrial data networks and data centers use far more energy than the Bitcoin network.



Proof of work is also a much slower validation method than other mechanisms. For example, more transactions are taking place than the Bitcoin network can handle. Transactions are stored in a mempool waiting for validation, with average confirmation times between Jan. 1 and Feb. 9, 2023, ranged from seven to 91 minutes (confirmation is when your transaction is confirmed). Bitcoin keeps its block times at an average of 10 minutes—compare this with block times on the Ethereum PoS network, which have averaged 12 seconds since September 2022.


   Example of Proof of Work  

Proof of work requires a computer to randomly engage in hashing functions until it arrives at an output with the correct minimum amount of leading zeroes. For example, the hash for block #775,771, mined on Feb. 9, 2023, is:



00000000000000000003aa2696b1b7248db53a5a7f72d1fd98916c761e954354



The block reward for that successful hash was 6.25 BTC and 0.1360 BTC in fees.



The nonce was 2,881,347,934, there were 1,519 transactions in the block, and the total value of the block was 1,665.9645 BTC. Remembering that a hash is generated and the nonce starts at zero, this block was hashed by a miner 2.8 billion times before reaching a number less than the target.




What Does Proof of Work Mean?
PoW requires nodes on a network to provide evidence that they have expended computational power (i.e., work) to achieve consensus in a decentralized manner and to prevent bad actors from overtaking the network.




Why Do Cryptocurrencies Need Proof of Work?
Because they are decentralized and peer-to-peer by design, blockchains such as cryptocurrency networks require some way of achieving both consensus and security. Proof of work is one method that makes it too resource-intensive to overtake the network. Other proof mechanisms also exist that are less resource-intensive. Without a proof mechanism, the network and the data stored within it would be vulnerable to attack or theft.




Does Bitcoin Use Proof of Work?
Yes. It uses a PoW algorithm based on the SHA-256 hashing function to validate and confirm transactions and issue new bitcoins.


   The Bottom Line  

Proof of work is a consensus mechanism used by many cryptocurrencies to validate transactions on their blockchains and award tokens for participating in the network. Proof of work is a competitive process that uses publicly available transaction information to attempt to generate a hexadecimal number less than the network target for that mining period. Under PoW consensus, thousands of mining programs work on one block until the hash is solved, then move to the next block.



Investing in cryptocurrencies and other Initial Coin Offerings (“ICOs”) is highly risky and speculative, and this article is not a recommendation by Investopedia or the writer to invest in cryptocurrencies or other ICOs. Since each individual's situation is unique, a qualified professional should always be consulted before making any financial decisions. Investopedia makes no representations or warranties as to the accuracy or timeliness of the information contained herein. As of the date this article was written, the author does not own cryptocurrency.
What Is Property?  

Property is a term describing anything that a person or a business has legal title over, affording owners certain enforceable rights over said items. Examples of property, which may be tangible or intangible, include automotive vehicles, industrial equipment, furniture, and real estate—the last of which is often referred to as "real property."



Most properties hold current or potential monetary value and are therefore considered to be assets. But properties can simultaneously be liabilities in some situations. Case in point: if a customer sustains an injury on a company's property, the business owner may be legally responsible for paying the injured party's medical bills.





Key Takeaways

Property is any item that a person or a business has legal title over.Property can be tangible items, such as houses, cars, or appliances, or it can refer to intangible items that carry the promise of future worth, such as stock and bond certificates.Intellectual property refers to ideas such as logo designs and patents.Property owners may also have liabilities, which is the case if a business owner is on the hook for medical expenses resulting from a customer incurring an injury on his company's grounds.The most common types of property are real, private, government-owned, and personal property.


   Understanding Property  

Intangible property describes assets, such as stock and bond certificates, that represent current or potential value but don't carry intrinsic value. While these items are merely pieces of paper, they might represent significant amounts of money. Other types of intangible property, such as a brand’s reputation, are more nebulous and cannot be signified by a paper document.



Intangible properties, like design concepts, song lyrics, books, and screenplays, are categorized as intellectual properties. Even though these are not physical in nature, they may carry significant value. Examples of intellectual properties include Nike’s “swoosh” logo and the chemical formula for Coca-Cola.



To enforce ownership of intangible properties, individuals and businesses typically hire lawyers to legally protect their items from infringement.


   Types of Property  

Property, in the broad sense, describes anything that a person, group of people, or entity owns. It includes real property, personal property, private property, government-owned property, and more.


  Real Property  

Real property is one of the most familiar types of property. It includes land, buildings occupying the land, and the rights to use and enjoy the land. Real property is the focal point of real estate, which deals with transactions (e.g., buying, selling, renting, and managing) involving land and buildings used for residential, commercial, and agricultural use.



Just as there are various types of property, there are different types of interests in property. Interests in real property include freehold estates and non-freehold estates. Freehold estates are ownership interests that have no expiration and can be inherited. Non-freehold estates, or leasehold estates, are not transferrable and have expirations; such estates include leases and other rental agreements.






Property law stipulates how real property can be used and the manner in which it can be legally transferred.


  Personal Property  

Personal property is as well known as real property but differs in that it does not include real estate (e.g., land and buildings attached to the land). Personal property is property that can be physically transferred and is not permanently attached to the land. It includes clothing, automobiles, furniture, tools, and more.



Personal property also includes intangible assets, such as bank accounts, patents, and investments. Although they are not physically moveable, rights remain with the person or entity listed as the legal owner, making them personal property.


  Private Property  

Private property is any property owned by a natural person or private entity. It includes personal, real, tangible, and intangible assets, including intellectual property. Private property is often categorized as real or personal; however, not all real or personal property is private property.



Private property is not open to the public nor is owned by a government. Governments can, however, assume ownership of private property under certain circumstances, such as eminent domain.


  Government-Owned Property  

Government-owned property includes all property—including real property, resources, and other tangible and intangible assets—owned by a government body. In contrast to private property, most government-owned properties are public. For example, libraries, public schools, and city parks are government-owned property available to the public.



However, all government-owned property is not accessible to the public, and some publicly-accessed property is not always available to the public. For instance, a city park may have a curfew, after which the public cannot access it. A government-owned property, such as a military research facility or lab, may not be accessible at all to the public.



Sometimes private property can be escheated to a local government body, rendering it temporarily or permanently government-owned. Also, in some cases, the private property owner forfeits or sells their property rights to the government.


   Evaluating Property Assets  

When auditors, appraisers, and analysts calculate the value of a business, they factor all of its underlying property into the equation. For example, a manufacturer of small machine parts may gross just $80,000 per year, but if it owns the factory in which it operates, and that building is appraised at $1 million, the overall value of the business would be substantially higher than profits alone suggest.



Furthermore, if that same company holds a patent for a part, it has the potential to generate substantial income by licensing the rights to manufacture that item to a larger business, rather than producing the part in-house. In this way, licensing deals may create lucrative revenue streams that significantly boost a company’s overall value.


   Establishing Net Worth Through Property  

An individual's net worth may be determined by calculating the total value of the properties they own, such as real estate, cars, jewelry, stocks, bonds, and retirement savings, and then subtracting any liabilities or debts from that figure.



For example, if an individual's assets include a $100,000 home, a $7,000 car, and a $65,000 IRA, the tally of their property comes to $172,000. But if that same individual is saddled with a $20,000 student loan and a $3,000 credit card bill, the total liabilities add up to $23,000. Thus, the total net worth would be $149,000 ($172,000 - $23,000).






When calculating an individual's net worth, less valuable items, such as furniture or articles of clothing are generally not factored into the equation, unless said items hold significant value as antiques or as rare collectibles do.




How Do You Find Out Who Owns a Property?
Locating the owner of a property can be done through an online search on a county assessor's website, with a court clerk, by soliciting the help of a real estate broker or attorney, or by a general online search.




What Are Property Taxes?
Property taxes, also known as ad valorem taxes, are tax assessments on the value of a property.




How Do You Calculate Property Taxes?
Property taxes are determined by multiplying a tax rate, determined by the local tax authority, by the assessed value of the property. If the value of a property is $100,000 and the tax rate is 4%, the property taxes are $4,000.




What Does a Property Appraiser Do?
A property appraiser is responsible for assessing the market value of a property for real estate transactions. In contrast, a property assessor assesses the value of a property for tax purposes.


   The Bottom Line  

Property includes the tangible and intangible assets a person or entity has title to and rights to use. There are various forms of property, each carrying its own set of rules for classification and use. Often, some assets may be classified as more than one type of property. A house is both real property and private property in some instances. A computer can be personal property and government-owned. It is important to understand the different types and the rights associated with them.
What Is Property Insurance?  

Property insurance is a broad term for a series of policies that provide either property protection coverage or liability coverage for property owners. Property insurance provides financial reimbursement to the owner or renter of a structure and its contents in case there is damage or theft—and to a person other than the owner or renter if that person is injured on the property.



Property insurance can include a number of policies, such as homeowners insurance, renters insurance, flood insurance, and earthquake insurance. Personal property is usually covered by a homeowners or renters policy. The exception is personal property that is very high value and expensive—this is usually covered by purchasing an addition to the policy called a "rider." If there's a claim, the property insurance policy will either reimburse the policyholder for the actual value of the damage or the replacement cost to fix the problem.





Key Takeaways

Property insurance refers to a series of policies that offer either property protection or liability coverage.Property insurance can include homeowners insurance, renters insurance, flood insurance, and earthquake insurance, among other policies.The three types of property insurance coverage include replacement cost, actual cash value, and extended replacement costs.


   How Property Insurance Works  

Perils covered by property insurance typically include select weather-related afflictions, including damage caused by fire, smoke, wind, hail, the impact of snow and ice, lightning, and more. Property insurance also protects against vandalism and theft, covering the structure and its contents. Property insurance also provides liability coverage in case someone other than the property owner or renter is injured while on the property and decides to sue.



Property insurance policies normally exclude damage that results from a variety of events, including tsunamis, floods, drain and sewer backups, seeping groundwater, standing water, and a number of other sources of water. Mold is usually not covered, nor is the damage from an earthquake. In addition, most policies will not cover extreme circumstances, such as nuclear events, acts of war or terrorism.





Important

Property insurance includes homeowners insurance, renters insurance, flood insurance, and earthquake insurance.


   Understanding Property Insurance  

There are three types of property insurance coverage: replacement cost, actual cash value, and extended replacement costs.



Replacement cost covers the cost of repairing or replacing property at the same or equal value. The coverage is based on replacement cost values rather than the cash value of items.Actual cash value coverage pays the owner or renter the replacement cost minus depreciation. If the destroyed item is 10 years old, you get the value of a 10-year-old item, not a new one.Extended replacement costs will pay more than the coverage limit if the costs for construction have gone up; however, this usually won't exceed 25% of the limit. When you buy insurance, the limit is the maximum amount of benefit the insurance company will pay for a given situation or occurrence.


   Special Considerations  

Most homeowners purchase a hybrid policy that compensates for physical loss or damage caused by 16 perils, including fire, vandalism, and theft. The coverage, known as an HO3 policy, has certain conditions and exclusions. There is a predetermined limit on the coverage of certain valuables and collectibles, including gold, wedding rings and other jewelry, furs, cash, firearms, and other items. No coverage is usually provided in an HO3 for accidental breakage/damage and mysterious disappearance (lost, misplaced) of valuables, including fine art and antiques.



HO5 homeowners coverage includes everything in an HO3 policy, but is geared toward the structure itself and the property within the home, including furniture, appliances, clothing, and other personal items. An HO5 doesn't cover for earthquakes or floods. HO5 insurance policies are available to homes that were either built in the last 30 years or renovated in the last 40 years, and they typically cover any damages at replacement cost.



HO4 property insurance is usually known as renter's insurance—it covers tenants from loss of personal property and liability coverage. It does not cover the actual house or apartment being rented, which should be covered by the landlord’s insurance policy.



Note that none of these coverage levels reimburses the homeowner for property that breaks down or is damaged in more normal wear-and-tear situations, such as a roof that begins to leak without damage from wind and hail. That's where home warranties—another way to protect your property—can be helpful.
What Is Property Management?  

Property management is the daily oversight of residential, commercial, or industrial real estate by a third-party contractor. Generally, property managers take responsibility for day-to-day repairs and ongoing maintenance, security, and upkeep of properties. They usually work for the owners of investment properties such as apartment and condominium complexes, private home communities, shopping centers, and industrial parks.



Their main roles are to manage routine tasks delegated to them by the owners and to preserve the value of the properties that they manage while generating income.





Key Takeaways

Property management is the oversight of real estate by a third party.Property managers can manage various types of property: residential, commercial, industrial, and property for special purposes.Property managers are generally responsible for the day-to-day operations of the real estate, from screening tenants to arranging for repairs and maintenance.Owners pay property managers a fee or a percentage of the rent generated by the property.Every state has its own laws regulating the activities of property managers.


   Understanding Property Management  

Property developers generally want to move on to the next project as soon as each one is completed. Even if they continue to hold title to the property, they prefer to delegate the day-to-day operations to an outside company.



The responsibilities of a property manager generally involve the following:



Screening potential tenants
Drafting, signing, and renewing leases on behalf of property owners
Collecting rent
Maintenance of properties, including landscaping and snow removal
Arranging for necessary repairs to properties
Setting up and adhering to budgets for property maintenance
Understanding state and national landlord-tenant laws and regulations
Marketing properties
Supervising other employees
Handling taxes



The companies must comply with any state and local landlord-tenant laws and regulations.



Owners pay property managers a fee or a percentage of the rent generated by a property while it is under their management.


   Types of Property Management  

Just as property comes in many types, so do property managers. Some firms are specialized in providing management for a particular type of property, while others offer management services over a range of property types. A huge range of property types can be managed.


  Residential Property Management  

Residential property managers are typically hired for rental properties, and they manage the rental process. They can be hired to manage:



Single-family homes
Vacation rentals
Multifamily homes
Town houses
Condominiums
Apartments
Manufactured homes
Real estate-owned (REO) properties


  Commercial Property Management  

Commercial property owners have different needs from those who own residential property. Commercial property management can apply to:



Public accommodations like hotels Retail properties like malls, restaurants, and gas stationsOffice properties like real estate brokerages or doctors’ officesCo-working spaces where professionals rent work space by the day or the hour


  Industrial Property Management  

Industrial properties that can benefit from management include:



Heavy manufacturing facilities such as automotive plants and steel millsLight manufacturing factories such as food packagingWarehousesDistribution facilities


  Special-Purpose Property Management  

There are also numerous types of property that don’t fit neatly into the categories above, but that require management nonetheless. These include:



TheatersSports arenasResortsSenior care facilitiesSchools and universitiesPlaces of worship


   Who Needs a Property Manager?  

Several types of property owners can benefit from the services that property managers offer.



Landlords, for example, hire property management firms for a variety of reasons. Some may have multiple rental properties in their portfolios and lack the time or expertise to maintain the properties and deal with individual tenants. Some owners only have an interest in owning rental properties and earning profits from them. When this is the case, they hire professional property managers. Absentee landlords also make use of property management services. Some property management companies cater to individual landlords who rent out a single property such as a vacation home.



Property owners who participate in affordable housing programs tend to use property management services because their rental properties are subject to complex federal guidelines that require specialized expertise. Certain real estate brokers also operate as property managers. For example, a broker in a resort town may provide buyer and seller agent services as well as property management services. When this is the case, the real estate broker lists, shows, leases, and maintains vacation rentals for a number of property owners.






Property managers are different from community managers, who deal with common areas rather than individual units and don’t necessarily deal directly with landlords.


   Special Property Management Considerations  

Property management licensing requirements vary by state. Most states require property management companies to be licensed by the local real estate board, so property owners need to make sure that the firms they hire are properly licensed.



For instance, property managers in Florida are required to have real estate broker’s licenses to operate in the state. That’s because some of their responsibilities are deemed real estate activity. Holding a real estate broker’s license allows property managers to list rental properties in the multiple listing service (MLS) and to market the properties by standard real estate marketing methods. Holding a real estate broker’s license also allows the property management company to place a real estate board lockbox on a property’s door so that other licensed agents can show the property.



Florida also requires property managers to hold a broker’s license if they deal with rentals or leases and receive a commission for their services. However, property managers who manage the properties that they own in the state don’t need a license to do so.



Managers in Massachusetts don’t require a broker’s license. That’s because certain duties considered to be real estate activities, such as listing and leasing properties, may be secondary to the main duties performed by the property manager.




Is a property manager worth it?
It depends. Managing property can be costly and take a lot of time. If the cost of a property manager is less than the opportunity cost of managing properties yourself, it’s probably a good investment. However, this is an equation that every investor will have to work through for themselves.




Who benefits from hiring a property manager?
Any property manager who doesn’t want to deal with the day-to-day management of property can potentially benefit from property management. This can include a residential property owner who doesn’t want the headaches of dealing with tenants, or commercial property owners who prefer others to source and manage tenants, leases, and maintenance.




Are property managers regulated?
Yes. Property management licensing requirements vary by state, but most states require property management companies to be licensed by the local real estate board. Property owners should make sure that the firms they hire are properly licensed.


   The Bottom Line  

Property management is the oversight of real estate by a third party, normally a professional property manager or property management company. Property managers can manage many different types of property: residential, commercial, industrial, and property for special purposes.



Property managers are generally responsible for the day-to-day operations of the real estate, from screening tenants to arranging for repairs and maintenance, and are paid via a fee or a percentage of the rent generated by the property. Every state has its own laws regulating the activities of property managers, so it’s important for property owners to check that potential property managers are properly licensed for their state.
What Is Property, Plant, and Equipment (PP&E)?  

Property, plant, and equipment (PP&E) are long-term assets vital to business operations. Property, plant, and equipment are tangible assets, meaning they are physical in nature or can be touched; as a result, they are not easily converted into cash. The overall value of a company's PP&E can range from very low to extremely high compared to its total assets.





Key Takeaways

Property, plant, and equipment (PP&E) are long-term assets vital to business operations and the long-term financial health of a company.Equipment, machinery, buildings, and vehicles are all types of PP&E assets. (PP&E) are also called fixed or tangible assets, meaning they are physical items that a company cannot easily liquidate.Purchases of PP&E are a signal that management has faith in the long-term outlook and profitability of its company.Investment analysts and accountants use the PP&E of a company to determine if it is on a sound financial footing and utilizing funds in the most efficient and effective manner.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding Property, Plant, and Equipment (PP&E)  

Property, plant, and equipment are also called fixed assets, meaning they are physical assets that a company cannot easily liquidate or sell. PP&E assets fall under the category of noncurrent assets, which are the long-term investments or assets of a company. Noncurrent assets like PP&E have a useful life of more than one year, but usually, they last for many years.



Examples of property, plant, and equipment include the following:



Machinery
Computers and computer software
Vehicles
Furniture
Buildings
Land






Noncurrent assets like PP&E are the opposite of current assets. Current assets are short-term, meaning they are items that are likely to be converted into cash within one year, such as inventory.


  PP&E and Noncurrent Assets  

Although PP&E are noncurrent assets or long-term assets, not all noncurrent assets are property, plant, and equipment. Intangible assets are nonphysical assets, such as patents and copyrights. They are considered to be noncurrent assets because they provide value to a company but cannot be readily converted to cash within a year. Long-term investments, such as bonds and notes, are also considered noncurrent assets because a company usually holds these assets on its balance sheet for more than one fiscal year. PP&E refers to specific fixed, tangible assets, whereas noncurrent assets are all of the long-term assets of a company.


  Calculating PP&E  

To calculate PP&E, add the amount of gross property, plant, and equipment, listed on the balance sheet, to capital expenditures. Next, subtract accumulated depreciation from the result. In most cases, companies will list their net PP&E on their balance sheet when reporting financial results, so the calculation has already been done.



As a formula, it would be:


















Net PPE


=


Gross PPE


+


Capital Expenditures


−


AD
















where:
















AD


=


Accumulated depreciation







\begin{aligned} &\text{Net PPE}=\text{Gross PPE}+\text{Capital Expenditures}-\text{AD}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{AD}=\text{Accumulated depreciation} \end{aligned}


​Net PPE=Gross PPE+Capital Expenditures−ADwhere:AD=Accumulated depreciation​


   Significance of PP&E  

Investment analysts and accountants use the PP&E of a company to determine if it is on a sound financial footing and utilizing funds in the most efficient and effective manner.



A company investing in PP&E is a good sign for investors. A fixed asset is a sizable investment in a company's future. Purchases of PP&E are a signal that management has faith in the long-term outlook and profitability of its company. PP&E are a company's physical assets that are expected to generate economic benefits and contribute to revenue for many years. Investment in PP&E is also called a capital investment. Industries or businesses that require a large number of fixed assets like PP&E are described as capital intensive.



PP&E may be liquidated when they are no longer of use or when a company is experiencing financial difficulties. Of course, selling property, plant, and equipment to fund business operations is a signal that a company might be in financial trouble. It is important to note that regardless of the reason why a company has sold some of its property, plant, or equipment, it's likely the company didn't realize a profit from the sale. Companies can also borrow off their PP&E, (floating lien), meaning the equipment can be used as collateral for a loan.


   Accounting for PP&E  

PP&E is recorded on a company's financial statements, specifically on the balance sheet. PP&E is initially measured according to its historical cost, which is the actual purchase cost and the costs associated with bringing assets to its intended use. For example, when purchasing a building for retail operations, the historical cost could include the purchase price, transaction fees, and any improvements made to the building to bring it to its destined use.



The value of PP&E is adjusted routinely as fixed assets generally see a decline in value due to use and depreciation. Depreciation is the process of allocating the cost of a tangible asset over its useful life and is used to account for declines in value. The total amount of a company's cost allocated to depreciation expense over time is called accumulated depreciation.



However, land is not depreciated because of its potential to appreciate in value. Instead, it is represented at its current market value. The balance of the PP&E account is remeasured every reporting period, and, after accounting for historical cost and depreciation, is called the book value. This figure is reported on the balance sheet.


   Limitations of PP&E  

PP&E are vital to the long-term success of many companies, but they are capital intensive. Companies sometimes sell a portion of their assets to raise cash and boost their profit or net income. As a result, it's important to monitor a company's investments in PP&E and any sale of its fixed assets.



Since PP&E are tangible assets, PP&E analysis doesn't include intangible assets such as a company's trademark. For example, Coca-Cola's (KO) trademark and brand name represent sizable intangible assets. If investors were to only look at Coca-Cola's PP&E, they wouldn't see the true value of the company's assets. PP&E only represents one portion of a company's assets. Also, for companies with few fixed assets, PP&E has little value as a metric.


   Example of PP&E  

Below is a portion of Exxon Mobil Corporation's (XOM) quarterly balance sheet as of September 30, 2018.



We can see that Exxon recorded $249.153 billion in net property, plant, and equipment for the period ending September 30, 2018. When compared to Exxon's total assets of over $354 billion for the period, PP&E made up the vast majority of total assets. As a result, Exxon would be considered a capital intensive company. Some of the company's fixed assets include oil rigs and drilling equipment.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020




Why Should Investors Pay Attention to PP&E?
PP&E are assets that are expected to generate economic benefits and contribute to revenue for many years. Purchases of PP&E are a signal that management has faith in the long-term outlook and profitability of its company.




How Is PP&E Accounted for?
PP&E is recorded on a company's financial statements, specifically on the balance sheet. To calculate PP&E, add the amount of gross property, plant, and equipment, listed on the balance sheet, to capital expenditures. Next, subtract accumulated depreciation. The result is the overall value of the PP&E. It's often referred to as the company's book value.




What Are Noncurrent Assets?
Noncurrent assets are a company's long-term investments for which the full value will not be realized within the accounting year. They are allocated over the number of years the asset is used. They appear on a company's balance sheet under "investment"; "property, plant, and equipment"; "intangible assets"; or "other assets".
What Are Property Rights?  

Property rights define the theoretical and legal ownership of resources and how they can be used. These resources can be both tangible or intangible and can be owned by individuals, businesses, and governments.



In many countries, including the United States, individuals generally exercise private property rights or the rights of private persons to accumulate, hold, delegate, rent, or sell their property.



In economics, property rights form the basis for all market exchange, and the allocation of property rights in a society affects the efficiency of resource use.


   Understanding Property Rights  

Property is secured by laws that are clearly defined and enforced by the state. These laws define ownership and any associated benefits that come with holding the property. The term property is very expansive, though the legal protection for certain kinds of property varies between jurisdictions.



Property is generally owned by individuals or a small group of people. The rights of property ownership can be extended by using patents and copyrights to protect:



Scarce physical resources such as houses, cars, books, and cellphonesNon-human creatures like dogs, cats, horses, or birdsIntellectual property such as inventions, ideas, or words



Other types of property, such as communal or government property, are legally owned by well-defined groups. These are typically deemed public property. Ownership is enforced by individuals in positions of political or cultural power.



Property rights give the owner or right holder the ability to do with the property what they choose. That includes holding on to it, selling or renting it out for profit, or transferring it to another party.


  Acquiring Rights to a Property  

Individuals in a private property rights regime acquire and transfer in mutually agreed-upon transfers, or else through homesteading. Mutual transfers include rents, sales, voluntary sharing, inheritances, gambling, and charity.



Homesteading is the unique case; an individual may acquire a previously unowned resource by mixing his labor with the resource over a period of time. Examples of homesteading acts include plowing a field, carving stone, and domesticating a wild animal.



In areas where property rights don't exist, the ownership and use of resources are allocated by force, normally by the government. That means these resources are allocated by political ends rather than economic ones. Such governments determine who may interact with, can be excluded from, or may benefit from the use of the property.






In the case of open-access property, no one owns or manages it such as waterways.


  Private Property Rights  

Private property rights are one of the pillars of capitalist economies, as well as many legal systems, and moral philosophies. Within a private property rights regime, individuals need the ability to exclude others from the uses and benefits of their property.



All privately owned resources are rivalrous, meaning only a single user may possess the title and legal claim to the property. Private property owners also have the exclusive right to use and benefit from the services or products. Private property owners may exchange the resource on a voluntary basis.


   Special Considerations  
  Private Property Rights and Market Prices  

Every market price in a voluntary, capitalist society originates through transfers of private property. Each transaction takes place between one property owner and someone interested in acquiring the property. The value at which the property exchanges depends on how valuable it is to each party.





Key Takeaways

Property rights define the theoretical and legal ownership of resources and how they can be used. Property can be owned by individuals, businesses, and governments. These rights define the benefits associated with ownership of the property.



Suppose an investor purchases $1,000 in shares of stock in Apple. In this case, Apple values owning the $1,000 more than the stock. The investor has the opposite preference, and values ownership of Apple stock more than $1,000.
What Is Property Tax?  

Property tax is a tax paid on property owned by an individual or other legal entity, such as a corporation. Most commonly, property tax is a real estate ad-valorem tax, which can be considered a regressive tax. It is calculated by a local government where the property is located and paid by the owner of the property. The tax is usually based on the value of the owned property, including land. However, many jurisdictions also tax tangible personal property, such as cars and boats.



The local governing body will use the assessed taxes to fund water and sewer improvements, and provide law enforcement, fire protection, education, road and highway construction, libraries, and other services that benefit the community. Deeds of reconveyance do not interact with property taxes.





Key Takeaways

Property owners pay property tax calculated by the local government where the property is located.Property tax is based on the value of the property, which can be real estate or—in many jurisdictions—also tangible personal property.Improvements in water and sewer use the assessed taxes.


   Understanding Property Tax  

Property tax rates and the types of properties taxed vary by jurisdiction. When purchasing a property, it is essential to scrutinize the applicable tax laws.



In most Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries, immovable property tax represents a low proportion of federal revenue when compared to income taxes and value-added taxes. However, the rate in the United States is substantially higher than in many European countries. Many empiricists and pundits have called for an increase in property tax rates in developed economies. They argue that the predictability and market-correcting character of the tax encourages both stability and proper development of the real estate.












Investopedia / Dennis Madamba


   How Does Property Tax Work?  

The amount owners owe in property tax is determined by multiplying the property tax rate by the current market value of the lands in question. Most taxing authorities will recalculate the tax rate annually. Almost all property taxes are levied on real property, which is legally defined and classified by the state apparatus. Real property includes the land, structures, or other fixed buildings.



Ultimately, property owners are subject to the rates determined by the municipal government. A municipality will hire a tax assessor who assesses the local property. In some areas, the tax assessor may be an elected official. The assessor will assign property taxes to owners based on current fair market values. This value becomes the assessed value for the home.



The payment schedule of property taxes varies by locality. In almost all local property tax codes, there are mechanisms by which the owner can discuss their tax rate with the assessor or formally contest the rate. When property taxes are left unpaid, the taxing authority may assign a lien against the property. Buyers should always complete a full review of outstanding liens before purchasing any property.


   Property Tax vs. Real Estate Tax  

People often use the terms property tax and real estate tax interchangeably. And it's partially true: Real estate tax is a property tax. However, that's not true the other way around. Not all property taxes are real estate taxes.



As noted above, in addition to real estate, many jurisdictions also levy property taxes against tangible personal property. According to a 2019 report by the Tax Foundation, 43 states tax tangible personal property. Both types of property are tax deductible if you file Schedule A with your income taxes. However, since the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the amount of state and local taxes (SALT) taxpayers could deduct on their federal income taxes fell from no limit to $10,000 per year for either married couples or single taxpayers. Those in the married filing separately category have a $5,000 cap.



So here's the difference: Real estate taxes are taxes on real property only; property taxes can include both real property and tangible personal property.
What Is the Property Tax Deduction?  

State and local property taxes are generally eligible to be deducted from the property owner's federal income taxes. Deductible real estate taxes include any state, local, or foreign taxes that are levied for the general public welfare. They do not include taxes charged for home renovations or for services like trash collection.



As noted below, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) capped the property tax deduction, along with other state and local taxes, starting with 2018 taxes. The law capped the deduction for state and local taxes, including property taxes, at $10,000 ($5,000 if married filing separately). Previously, there was no limit on the deduction.





Key Takeaways

State and local governments assess property taxes annually, based on the value of a property.  A property owner can claim a tax deduction on some or all of the taxes paid on that property, provided it is for personal use and the owner itemizes deductions on the federal tax return.Taxes paid on rental or commercial property—and on property not owned by the taxpayer—can not be deducted.Starting in 2018, the deduction for state and local taxes, including property taxes, was capped at a total of $10,000 ($5,000 if married filing separately).


   Understanding the Property Tax Deduction  

The owner of a property must pay taxes, assessed annually by a state and/or local government, on the value of the property. A property owner can claim a tax deduction on some or all of the property taxes paid if they use the property for personal use and itemize deductions on their federal tax return.



The real estate taxes that can be deducted include taxes paid at closing when buying or selling a home and taxes paid to a county or town’s tax assessor on the assessed value of the real property. Real property, according to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), may include a taxpayer’s main home, vacation home, land, or foreign property.


   Special Considerations  

Taxes paid on rental or commercial property—and on property not owned by the taxpayer—can not be deducted. In addition, a homebuyer who pays the seller's delinquent taxes from an earlier year at the time the sale was closed cannot deduct these tax payments on their tax return. This delinquent tax payment is, instead, treated as part of the cost of buying the home.



Also, a property owner’s tax bill includes miscellaneous items that are not allowed to be deducted for tax purposes. Some of these items include payments for improvements made to a local residential area, such as sidewalks, and fees for service delivery, such as trash collection. To understand what portion of a tax bill qualifies for the deduction, refer to Form 1098, which is reported by the bank or lender to the IRS and sent to the property owner.


   How to Claim a Property Tax Deduction  

To claim a property tax deduction, the tax must apply only to the value of the personal property owned and be charged on an annual basis, irrespective of when the government collects it from you. Therefore, if the state tax was only charged at the time the property was purchased then it does not meet the IRS definition of a deductible personal property tax.



As stated earlier, property tax can only be deducted if the owner chooses to itemize deductions. It makes sense for a taxpayer to itemize deductions if the sum of all their eligible itemized expenses is greater than the standard deduction allowed in a given tax year.


   Pros and Cons of the Property Tax Deduction  

From time to time there is talk of eliminating the property tax deduction. One of the arguments for doing so is that the deduction—along with the federal mortgage interest deduction—discriminates against renters and encourages people to take on more debt. Proponents of retaining the property tax deduction say that it promotes homeownership.



The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) of 2017 capped the deduction for state and local taxes, including property taxes, at a total of $10,000 ($5,000 if married filing separately), starting in 2018. Previously, there was no limit on the deduction.



In addition, under the new law homeowners who deduct mortgage interest are limited to the amount they pay on $750,000 worth of debt, down from $1 million. Interest on homes bought before Dec. 16, 2017, is guaranteed as a special exception at the previous rate.



Because the standard deduction doubled in 2018, the predictions are that fewer homeowners will itemize their deductions. Thus, fewer property owners will claim the property tax deduction.



The standard deduction is revised every year. For tax year 2022, the standard deduction for couples is $25,900 and the deduction for single filers is $12,950. For tax year 2023, the standard deduction for single filers is $13,850 and $27,700 for married couples filing jointly. Heads of household can deduct $20,800.
What Is a Proportional Tax?  

A proportional tax is an income tax system that levies the same percentage tax to everyone regardless of income. A proportional tax is the same for low, middle, and high-income taxpayers. Proportional taxes are sometimes referred to as flat taxes.



In contrast, a progressive tax or marginal tax system adjusts tax rates progressively by income. Low-income earners are taxed at a lower rate than high-income earners.





Key Takeaways

A proportional tax system, also referred to as a flat tax system, assesses the same tax rate on everyone regardless of income or wealth. Proportional taxation is intended to create greater equality between marginal tax rates and average tax rates paid. Proponents of proportional taxes believe they stimulate the economy by encouraging people to spend more and work more because there is no tax penalty for earning more.


   Understanding Proportional Taxation  

A proportional tax allows people to be taxed at the same percentage of their annual income. Supporters of a proportional tax system propose that it gives taxpayers incentive to earn more because they are not penalized with a higher tax bracket. Also, flat tax systems make filing easier. Critics of flat taxes argue the system places an unfair burden on low-wage earners in exchange for lowering tax rates on the wealthy. Critics, however, believe that a progressive tax system is fairer than a flat tax system.



In some instances, a sales tax can also be considered a type of proportional tax since all consumers, regardless of earnings, are required to pay the same fixed rate. The sales tax rate applies to goods and services, and the income of the purchaser is not a part of the equation. Other examples include poll taxes and the capped portion of the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) payroll deductions.






Russia is the largest nation in the world to use a flat tax. Russia imposes a 13% flat tax on earnings. As of January 1, 2021, progressive taxation was introduced to Russia. Russians earning more than 5 million rubles ($73,000) a year will pay 15% tax on all income above that level.


   Example of Proportional Taxes  

In a proportional tax system, all taxpayers are required to pay the same percentage of their income in taxes. For example, if the rate is set at 20%, a taxpayer earning $10,000 pays $2,000 and a taxpayer earning $50,000 pays $10,000. Similarly, a person earning $1 million would pay $200,000.


   Pros and Cons of Proportional Taxes  

Proportional taxes are a type of regressive tax because the tax rate does not increase as the amount of income subject to taxation rises, placing a higher financial burden on low-income individuals. A tax is said to be regressive if it has an inverse association where the average tax carries less impact on higher-income individuals or businesses.



Opponents of the proportional tax have claimed that higher-income earners should pay a higher percentage than taxpayers with lower incomes. They perceive the system as placing a more significant burden on middle-income earners to carry a large portion of government spending. While the percentage of tax is the same, which can be regarded as fair, the after-tax effect on low-income earners is more burdensome than for high-income earners.



To understand a proportional tax system, it is important to also look at how it defines income. If a system has generous deductions, then low-income earners may be exempt from tax, thus eliminating, at least in part, the regressive aspects of the tax. Variations of the proportional tax include allowing mortgage deductions and setting lower income levels.
What Is Proprietary Trading?  

Proprietary trading refers to a financial firm or commercial bank that invests for direct market gain rather than earning commission dollars by trading on behalf of clients. Also known as "prop trading," this type of trading activity occurs when a financial firm chooses to profit from market activities rather than thin-margin commissions obtained through client trading activity. Proprietary trading may involve the trading of stocks, bonds, commodities, currencies, or other instruments.



Financial firms or commercial banks that engage in proprietary trading believe they have a competitive advantage that will enable them to earn an annual return that exceeds index investing, bond yield appreciation, or other investment styles.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol





Key Takeaways

Proprietary trading refers to a financial institution using its own capital, rather than client funds, to conduct financial transactions.Proprietary traders may execute an assortment of market strategies that include index arbitrage, statistical arbitrage, merger arbitrage, fundamental analysis, volatility arbitrage, technical analysis, and/or global macro trading.Market analysts understand that large financial institutions purposely obfuscate details on proprietary vs. non-proprietary trading operations in order to obscure activities promoting corporate self-interest.


   How Does Proprietary Trading Work?  

Proprietary trading, which is also known as "prop trading," occurs when a trading desk at a financial institution, brokerage firm, investment bank, hedge fund, or other liquidity source uses the firm's capital and balance sheet to conduct self-promoting financial transactions. These trades are usually speculative in nature, executed through a variety of derivatives or other complex investment vehicles.


   Benefits of Proprietary Trading  

Proprietary trading provides many benefits to a financial institution or commercial bank, most notably higher quarterly and annual profits. When a brokerage firm or investment bank trades on behalf of clients, it earns revenues in the form of commissions and fees. This income can represent a very small percentage of the total amount invested or the gains generated, but the proprietary trading process allows an institution to realize 100% of the gains earned from an investment.



The second benefit is that the institution is able to stockpile an inventory of securities. This helps in two ways. First, any speculative inventory allows the institution to offer an unexpected advantage to clients. Second, it helps these institutions prepare for down or illiquid markets when it becomes harder to purchase or sell securities on the open market.



The final benefit is associated with the second benefit. Proprietary trading allows a financial institution to become an influential market maker by providing liquidity on a specific security or group of securities.


   An Example of a Proprietary Trading Desk  

In order for proprietary trading to be effective and also keep the institution's clients in mind, the proprietary trading desk is normally "roped off" from other trading desks. This desk is responsible for a portion of the financial institution's revenues, unrelated to client work while acting autonomously.



However, proprietary trading desks can also function as market makers, as outlined above. This situation arises when a client wants to trade a large amount of a single security or trade a highly illiquid security. Since there aren't many buyers or sellers for this type of trade, a proprietary trading desk will act as the buyer or seller, initiating the other side of the client trade.




How Does Proprietary Trading Work?
Proprietary trading occurs when a financial institution trades financial instruments using its own money rather than client funds. This allows the firm to maintain the full amount of any gains earned on the investment, potentially providing a significant boost to the firm's profits. Proprietary trading desks are generally "roped off" from client-focused trading desks, helping them to remain autonomous and ensuring that the financial institution is acting in the interest of its clients.




Why Do Firms Engage in Proprietary Trading?
Financial institutions engage in proprietary trading as a way of benefitting from perceived competitive advantages and maximizing their profits. Since proprietary trading uses the firm's own money rather than funds belonging to its clients, prop traders can take on greater levels of risk without having to answer to clients.




Can Banks Engage in Proprietary Trading?
The Volcker Rule, implemented in response to the 2007-2008 financial crisis, places restrictions against large banks using their own accounts for short-term proprietary trading of securities, derivatives, and commodity futures, along with options on these instruments. The rule is designed to shield customers by preventing banks from making the types of speculative investments that contributed to the Great Recession.


   The Bottom Line  

Proprietary trading occurs when a financial institution carries out transactions using its own capital rather than trading on behalf of its clients. The practice allows financial firms to maximize their profits, as they are able to keep 100% of the investment earnings generated by proprietary trades. Institutions such as brokerage firms, investment banks, and hedge funds frequently have proprietary trading desks. However, there are restrictions against large banks engaging in prop trading, designed to limit the speculative investments that contributed the 2007-2008 financial crisis.
What Is Proration?  

Proration is a type of corporate action that may arise during an event such as an acquisition, where a company splits its original cash and equity offer in response to shareholder preferences.



In certain situations, the acquiring firm will offer a combination of cash and equity, and shareholders of the firm being acquired can elect to take either. If available cash or shares are not sufficient to satisfy the offers that shareholders tender, the remaining stock is prorated: the company grants a proportion of both cash and shares for each offer tendered so that everyone gets their fair share of the deal.



Proration should not be confused with pro-rata, which indicates some proportional allocation or distribution.





Key Takeaways

Proration refers to actions when a company splits its original cash and equity offer to accommodate investor choices.It occurs when available cash or shares are not sufficient to satisfy the offers that shareholders tender during a certain corporate action.Examples of instances in which proration can occur are mergers and acquisitions, stock splits, and special dividends.Shareholders may prefer cash over equity due to differences in taxes, interest rates, and growth opportunities.Proration is not the same as pro-rata, which is a proportional allocation of something like a payment or expense.


   Understanding Proration  

Proration supports shareholders by ensuring that a company holds to its initial target and does not favor some investors over others (e.g., giving a percentage of shareholders the cash they wanted while delivering shares to the rest). While this means that every investor might not receive their initial election, it ensures that all receive the same value.



Other situations in which the need for proration might occur include bankruptcy or liquidation, special dividends, stock splits, and spinoffs.






While these corporate actions must be approved by shareholders, and a company will typically list them on a firm's proxy statement in advance of its annual meeting, shareholders must occasionally sacrifice to maximize wealth for all shareholders.


   Proration and Merger Considerations  

Mergers occur for several reasons, including to gain market share through a horizontal merger, reduce the costs of operations through a vertical merger, expand to new markets, or unite common products through a congeneric merger. After a merger, shares of the new company are distributed to existing shareholders of both original businesses.



When deciding to merge, in addition to how both companies will reward shareholders, it is important to take into consideration the Federal Trade Commission’s guidelines on keeping the industry competitive and avoiding the creation of monopolies.






It is important to ask whether a proposed merger will create or enhance market power or not. An antitrust concern arises particularly with proposed horizontal mergers between direct competitors.


   Example of Proration  

Suppose a company decides to acquire a rival for $100 million, which consists of 75% cash and 25% equity. The cash-equity split might undergo a revision if a majority of investors of the company being acquired elect to be paid in cash.



In that case, the acquiring company will change its accounting figures in order to accommodate the demand for cash. This will result in each investor of the acquired company receiving less cash than originally planned. A firm, for example, may have to revise an original offer to buy back stock and reduce it by a factor of, say two-thirds, in order to balance investor demand and its stock price at that time.




What Is a Proporation Factor?
The proration factor refers to the fraction of equity shares accepted by an acquiring company needed for the target company's shareholders to participate in a takeover offer.Proration factor may also refer to the amount of pension eligibility a plan participant is entitled to.




Why Does Proration Happen?
Proration can occur if a corporate action is planned, but there is not enough cash available to complete the transaction. Instead, equity shares are used as a form of payment, either in full or in part.




What Is Proration in Accounting?
In business accounting, proration can refer to the logical allocation of over- and under-utilized resources (e.g., finished inventories vs. works-in-progress) that a firm has in order to settle the books at the end of an accounting period.
What Is the Prospect Theory?  

Prospect theory assumes that losses and gains are valued differently, and thus individuals make decisions based on perceived gains instead of perceived losses. Also known as the "loss-aversion" theory, the general concept is that if two choices are put before an individual, both equal, with one presented in terms of potential gains and the other in terms of possible losses, the former option will be chosen.





Key Takeaways

The prospect theory says that investors value gains and losses differently, placing more weight on perceived gains versus perceived losses.An investor presented with a choice, both equal, will choose the one presented in terms of potential gains.Prospect theory is also known as the loss-aversion theory. The prospect theory is part of behavioral economics, suggesting investors chose perceived gains because losses cause a greater emotional impact.The certainty effect says individuals prefer certain outcomes over probable ones, while the isolation effect says individuals cancel out similar information when making a decision.


   How the Prospect Theory Works  

Prospect theory belongs to the behavioral economic subgroup, describing how individuals make a choice between probabilistic alternatives where risk is involved and the probability of different outcomes is unknown. This theory was formulated in 1979 and further developed in 1992 by Amos Tversky and Daniel Kahneman, deeming it more psychologically accurate of how decisions are made when compared to the expected utility theory.



The underlying explanation for an individual’s behavior, under prospect theory, is that because the choices are independent and singular, the probability of a gain or a loss is reasonably assumed as being 50/50 instead of the probability that is actually presented. Essentially, the probability of a gain is generally perceived as greater.



Tversky and Kahneman proposed that losses cause a greater emotional impact on an individual than does an equivalent amount of gain, so given choices presented two ways—with both offering the same result—an individual will pick the option offering perceived gains.



For example, assume that the end result of receiving $25. One option is being given $25 outright. The other option is being given $50 and then having to give back $25. The utility of the $25 is exactly the same in both options. However, individuals are most likely to choose to receive straight cash because a single gain is generally observed as more favorable than initially having more cash and then suffering a loss.


   Phases of Prospect Theory  

Prospect theory asserts that decisions are made through a two-stage process. Instead of considering all available information and possible options (which would be impossible) humans use a two-step process to narrow down the most important information. These steps are described as the editing phase and the evaluation phase.


  The Editing Phase  

The editing phase is where people decide which information will be used in the evaluation stage. Decision-makers will use mental shortcuts to assess which information is important, and what options are available. They also decide which outcomes are most desirable, and even rank their priorities.



The editing phase is important because it can introduce biases that emerge later in the decision process. If an individual does not consider certain unlikely outcomes or makes an incorrect assessment of that outcome's probability, they may end up making sub-optimal decisions later on.


  The Evaluation Phase  

This is the stage where people make their final decisions, based on the assessments made in the editing phase. People weigh the probability of each outcome and take actions based on the perceived likelihood and desirability of each outcome.



It is important to note that these decisions are not necessarily based on rational calculations. Prospect theory posits that people tend to be risk-averse when the stakes are high, and risk-accepting when the stakes are low. In other words, they tend to make choices that minimize losses rather than maximize expected gains.


   Characteristics of Prospect Theory  

Prospect theory suggests that humans tend to prefer certainties over probabilities. For example, suppose that you have a choice between being given $50, and a 50% chance of winning $100. Most people will take the $50, even though the expected value of the two options is exactly the same.



Prospect theory also asserts that people underestimate (or even ignore) outcomes with a low probability. Consequently, they also tend to overestimate the probability of likely events, resulting in a bias that neglects improbable outcomes. This is particularly relevant to investors, who must consider the possibility of unforeseen black swan events.






Although there is no difference in the actual gains or losses of a certain product, the prospect theory says investors will choose the product that offers the most perceived gains.


   How to Overcome Biases  

Understanding prospect theory can help individuals overcome their biases and make more rational choices. For example, an investor who is aware of their bias towards high-probability events can compensate by giving extra consideration to low-probability ones.



It also helps to reframe possible outcomes in a way that reduces the impact of cognitive biases. Instead of thinking in terms of gain or loss, you can instead think in terms of the value of expected outcomes, without using the present as a reference point. This can reduce one's loss-aversion bias.


   Outcomes  

According to Tversky and Kahneman, the certainty effect is exhibited when people prefer certain outcomes and underweight outcomes that are only probable. The certainty effect leads to individuals avoiding risk when there is a prospect of a sure gain. It also contributes to individuals seeking risk when one of their options is a sure loss.



The isolation effect occurs when people have presented two options with the same outcome, but different routes to the outcome. In this case, people are likely to cancel out similar information to lighten the cognitive load, and their conclusions will vary depending on how the options are framed.


   Example of Prospect Theory  

Consider an investor who is given two pitches for the same mutual fund. The first advisor presents the fund to Sam, highlighting that it has an average return of 10% for the last three years. Meanwhile, a second advisor tells the investor that the fund has had above-average returns over the last decade, but has been in decline for the last three years.



Prospect theory says that although the investor has been pitched the exact same mutual fund, they are likely to buy from the first advisor. That is, the investor is more likely to buy the fund from the advisor that expresses the fund's rate of return in terms of only gains, while the second advisor presented the fund as having high returns, but also losses.




What Does Prospect Theory Mean?
Prospect theory says that investors value gains and losses differently. That is, if an investor is presented an investment option based on potential gains, and another based on potential losses, the investor will choose an investment where potential gains are presented.




Why Is Prospect Theory Important?
It's useful for investors to understand their biases, where losses tend to cause greater emotional impact than the equivalent gain. The prospect theory helps describe hows decisions are made by investors.




What Are the Main Components of Prospect Theory?
Prospect theory is part of the behavioral economic subgroup. It describes how individuals make decisions between alternatives where risk is involved and the probability of different outcomes is unknown. There is a certainty effect exhibited in the prospect theory, where people seek certain outcomes, underweighting only probable outcomes.




Who Proposed Prospect Theory?
Prospect theory was first introduced in 1979 by Amos Tversky and Daniel Kahneman, who later developed the idea in 1992. The pair said that the prospect theory was better at accurately describing how decisions are made, compared to the expected utility theory.




What Did Kahneman and Tversky Do?
Kahneman and Tversky proposed that losses have a greater emotional impact than a gain of the same amount. They said that, given choices presented two ways—with both offering the same result—an individual will pick the option offering perceived gains.


   The Bottom Line  

Prospect theory says that individuals will accept an investment when the gains are presented, versus the losses. That is, investors weigh potential gains more than potential losses.
What Is a Prospectus?  

A prospectus is a formal document required by and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that provides details about an investment offering to the public. A prospectus is filed for offerings of stocks, bonds, and mutual funds.



The prospectus can help investors make more informed investment decisions because it contains a host of relevant information about the investment or security. In areas other than investing, a prospectus is a printed document that advertises or describes an offering such as a school, commercial enterprise, forthcoming book, etc. All forms of prospectus exist to attract or inform clients, members, buyers, or investors.





Key Takeaways

The Securities and Exchange Commission requires that security issuers file a prospectus when offering investment securities to the public.The prospectus provides details about the investment/security and the offering.A mutual fund prospectus contains details on investment objectives, strategies, performance, distribution policy, fees, and fund management. The risks of the investment are typically disclosed early in the prospectus and then explained in more detail later in the document.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding the Prospectus  

Companies that wish to offer bonds or stock for sale to the public must file a prospectus with the Securities and Exchange Commission as part of the registration process. Companies must file a preliminary and a final prospectus, and the SEC has specific guidelines as to what's listed in the prospectus for various securities.



The preliminary prospectus is the first offering document provided by a security issuer and includes most of the details of the business and transaction. However, the preliminary prospectus doesn't contain the number of shares to be issued or price information. Typically, the preliminary prospectus is used to gauge interest in the market for the security being proposed.



The final prospectus contains the complete details of the investment offering to the public. The final prospectus includes any finalized background information, as well as the number of shares or certificates to be issued and the offering price.



A prospectus includes some of the following information:



A brief summary of the company’s background and financial information
The name of the company issuing the stock
The number of shares
The type of securities being offered
Whether an offering is public or private
Names of the company’s principals
Names of the banks or financial companies performing the underwriting



Some companies are allowed to file an abridged prospectus, which is a document that contains some of the same information as the final prospectus.



Another reason a prospectus is issued is to inform investors of the risks involved with investing in the security or fund. Although a company might be raising capital through stock or bond issuance, investors should study the financials of the company to ensure the company is financially viable enough to honor its commitments.



Risks are typically disclosed early in the prospectus and described in more detail later. The age of the company, management experience, management's involvement in the business, and capitalization of the stock issuer are also described. The prospectus information also guards the issuing company against claims that pertinent information was not fully disclosed.






   Prospectus Example  

In the case of mutual funds, a prospectus contains details on the fund's objectives, investment strategies, risks, performance, distribution policy, fees, expenses, and fund management. Because the fees that mutual funds charge take away from investors’ returns, the fees are listed in a table near the beginning of the prospectus. Fees for purchases, sales, and moving among funds are also included, which simplifies the process of comparing the costs of various mutual funds.





1% to 2%

Typically, high-cost funds charge fees in excess of 1.5%, whereas low-cost funds charge 1% or less.



As an example of a prospectus for an offering, PNC Financial (PNC) filed a prospectus with the Securities and Exchange Commission in 2019 requesting a new issuance of debt. The senior note being offered to the public is a bond or a promissory note to pay a specific yield by maturity.



For review, senior notes are debt securities, or bonds, that take precedence over other unsecured notes in the event of bankruptcy. Senior notes must be paid first if assets are available in the event of company liquidation. A senior note pays a lower coupon rate of interest compared to junior unsecured bonds since the senior debt has a higher level of security and a reduced risk of default.



Below is a portion of the prospectus from the table of contents, which provides basic information about the offering. We can see the following information listed:



Securities offered, which are senior notes that pay 3.50%
The maturity date of the notes, which is Jan. 23, 2024
The issue date, which has yet to be determined
How interest will be paid and denominations to be issued
Use of proceeds or how the money raised will be spent, which might include financing operations, paying down debt, or buying back stock















PNC Financial Prospectus Example.
 Investopedia




Why Is a Prospectus Useful for Investors?
An SEC-required prospectus provides important details about an investment offering to investors. It provides information to the public regarding investment risk and consolidates valuable information about the investment as well as the company being invested in. Knowing the type and amount of risk involved is an important consideration for investors such that those details are typically disclosed early in the prospectus and later in detail. The financial condition of the company behind the investment is also important since investors want to ensure the company is financially viable enough to honor its commitments.




What Information Is Normally in a Prospectus?
A prospectus includes pertinent information such as a brief summary of the company’s background and financial information. The name of the company and its principals, age of the company, management experience, and management's involvement in the business. Furthermore, the number of shares being issued, the type of securities being offered, whether an offering is public or private, and the names of the banks or financial companies performing the underwriting are also listed.




What's the Difference Between a Preliminary and a Final Prospectus?
The preliminary prospectus is the first offering document provided by a security issuer and includes most of the details of the business and transaction. However, the preliminary prospectus doesn't contain the number of shares to be issued or price information. Typically, the preliminary prospectus is used to gauge interest in the market for the security being proposed.The final prospectus contains the complete details of the investment offering to the public. The final prospectus includes any finalized background information, as well as the number of shares or certificates to be issued and the offering price.


   The Bottom Line  

In general, a prospectus is a document that provides details about an offering made available to the public. More commonly, a prospectus is a formal document required by and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that provides details about an investment offering to the public.



Investors use a prospectus to learn details about a company and its stock much like an employer uses a resume to learn details about a candidate for a job. Topics covered in a prospectus include risk, financial history, a description of the management team, the security's value and amount, whether the offering is public or priviate, number of shares offered, and how investment proceeds will be used
What Is Protectionism?  

Protectionism refers to government policies that restrict international trade to help domestic industries. Protectionist policies are usually implemented with the goal to improve economic activity within a domestic economy but can also be implemented for safety or quality concerns.





Key Takeaways

Protectionist policies place specific restrictions on international trade for the benefit of a domestic economy.Protectionist policies typically seek to improve economic activity but may also be the result of safety or quality concerns.The value of protectionism is a subject of debate among economists and policymakers.Tariffs, import quotas, product standards, and subsidies are some of the primary policy tools a government can use in enacting protectionist policies.












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   Understanding Protectionism  

Protectionist policies are typically focused on imports but may also involve other aspects of international trade such as product standards and government subsidies. The merits of protectionism are the subject of fierce debate.



Critics argue that over the long term, protectionism often hurts the people and entities it is intended to protect by slowing economic growth and increasing price inflation, making free trade a better alternative. Proponents of protectionism argue that the policies can help to create domestic jobs, increase gross domestic product (GDP), and make a domestic economy more competitive globally.


   Types of Protectionist Tools  
  Tariffs  

Import tariffs are one of the top tools a government uses when seeking to enact protectionist policies. There are three main import tariff concepts that can be theorized for protective measures. In general, all forms of import tariffs are charged to the importing country and documented at government customs. Import tariffs raise the price of imports for a country.



Scientific tariffs are import tariffs imposed on an item-by-item basis, raising the price of goods for the importer and passing on higher prices to the end buyer. Peril point import tariffs are focused on a specific industry.



These tariffs involve the calculation of the levels at which point tariff decreases or increases would cause significant harm to an industry overall, potentially leading to the jeopardy of closure due to an inability to compete. Retaliatory tariffs are tariffs enacted primarily as a response to excessive duties being charged by trading partners.


  Import Quotas  

Import quotas are nontariff barriers that are put in place to limit the number of products that can be imported over a set period of time. The purpose of quotas is to limit the supply of specified products provided by an exporter to an importer. This is typically a less drastic action that has a marginal effect on prices and leads to higher demand for domestic businesses to cover the shortfall.



Quotas may also be put in place to prevent dumping, which occurs when foreign producers export products at prices lower than production costs. An embargo, in which the importation of designated products is completely prohibited, is the most severe type of quota.


  Product Standards  

Product safety and low-quality products or materials are typically top concerns when enacting product standards. Product standard protectionism can be a barrier that limits imports based on a country’s internal controls.



Some countries may have lower regulatory standards in the areas of food preparation, intellectual property enforcement, or materials production. This can lead to a product standard requirement or a blockage of certain imports due to regulatory enforcement. Overall, restricting imports through the implementation of product standards can often lead to a higher volume of production domestically.



For one example, consider French cheeses made with raw instead of pasteurized milk, which must be aged at least 60 days prior to being imported to the U.S. Because the process for producing many French kinds of cheese often involves aging of 50 days or fewer, some of the most popular French cheeses are banned from the U.S., providing an advantage for U.S. producers.


  Government Subsidies  

Government subsidies can come in various forms. Generally, they may be direct or indirect. Direct subsidies provide businesses with cash payments. Indirect subsidies come in the form of special savings such as interest-free loans and tax breaks.



When exploring subsidies, government officials may choose to provide direct or indirect subsidies in the areas of production, employment, tax, property, and more.



When seeking to boost a country’s balance of trade, a country might also choose to offer subsidies to businesses for exports. Export subsidies provide an incentive for domestic businesses to expand globally by increasing their exports internationally.




What Are Examples of Protectionism?
Common examples of protectionism, or tools that are used to implement a policy of protectionism include tariffs, quotas, and subsidies. All of these tools are meant to promote domestic companies by making foreign goods more expensive or scarce.




Is Protectionism Left-Wing or Right-Wing Politics?
Traditionally, protectionism is a left-wing policy. Right-wing politics generally support free trade, which is the opposite of a protectionist stance. Left-wing politics support economic populism, of which protectionism is a part.




What Are the Arguments for Protectionism?
Lawmakers that favor protectionist trade policies believe that they protect jobs at home, help support and grow small companies and industries, and provide a layer of security to the nation.
What Is a Protective Put?  

A protective put is a risk-management strategy using options contracts that investors employ to guard against the loss of owning a stock or asset. The hedging strategy involves an investor buying a put option for a fee, called a premium.



Puts by themselves are a bearish strategy where the trader believes the price of the asset will decline in the future. However, a protective put is typically used when an investor is still bullish on a stock but wishes to hedge against potential losses and uncertainty.



Protective puts may be placed on stocks, currencies, commodities, and indexes and give some protection to the downside. A protective put acts as an insurance policy by providing downside protection in the event the price of the asset declines.





Key Takeaways

A protective put is a risk-management strategy using options contracts that investors employ to guard against a loss in a stock or other asset.For the cost of the premium, protective puts act as an insurance policy by providing downside protection from an asset's price declines.Protective puts offer unlimited potential for gains since the put buyer also owns shares of the underlying asset.When a protective put covers the entire long position of the underlying, it is called a married put.


   How a Protective Put Works  

Protective puts are commonly utilized when an investor is long or purchases shares of stock or other assets that they intend to hold in their portfolio. Typically, an investor who owns stock has the risk of taking a loss on the investment if the stock price declines below the purchase price. By purchasing a put option, any losses on the stock are limited or capped.



The protective put sets a known floor price below which the investor will not continue to lose any added money even as the underlying asset's price continues to fall.



A put option is a contract that gives the owner the ability to sell a specific amount of the underlying security at a set price before or by a specified date. Unlike futures contracts, the options contract does not obligate the holder to sell the asset and only allows them to sell if they should choose to do so. The set price of the contract is known as the strike price, and the specified date is the expiration date or expiry. One option contract equates to 100 shares of the underlying asset.



Also, just like all things in life, put options are not free. The fee on an option contract is known as the premium. This price has a basis on several factors including the current price of the underlying asset, the time until expiration, and the implied volatility (IV)—how likely the price is going to change—of the asset.


   Strike Prices and Premiums  

A protective put option contract can be bought at any time. Some investors will buy these at the same time and when they purchase the stock. Others may wait and buy the contract at a later date. Whenever they buy the option, the relationship between the price of the underlying asset and the strike price can place the contract into one of three categories—known as the moneyness. These categories include:



At-the-money (ATM) where strike and market are equalOut-of-the-money (OTM) where the strike is below the marketIn-the-money (ITM) where the strike is above the market



Investors looking to hedge losses on a holding primarily focus on the ATM and OTM option offerings.



Should the price of the asset and the strike price be the same, the contract is considered at-the-money (ATM). An at-the-money put option provides an investor with 100% protection until the option expires. Many times, a protective put will be at-the-money if it was bought at the same time the underlying asset is purchased.



An investor can also buy an out-of-the-money (OTM) put option. Out-of-the-money happens when the strike price is below the price of the stock or asset. An OTM put option does not provide 100% protection on the downside but instead caps the losses to the difference between the purchased stock price and the strike price. Investors use out-of-the-money options to lower the cost of the premium since they are willing to take a certain amount of a loss. Also, the further below the market value the strike is, the less the premium will become.



For example, an investor could determine they're unwilling to take losses beyond a 5% decline in the stock. An investor could buy a put option with a strike price that is 5% lower than the stock price thus creating a worst-case scenario of a 5% loss if the stock declines. Different strike prices and expiration dates are available for options giving investors the ability to tailor the protection—and the premium fee.





Important

A protective put is also known as a married put when the options contracts are matched one-for-one with shares of stock owned.


   Potential Scenarios with Protective Puts  

A protective put keeps downside losses limited while preserving unlimited potential gains to the upside. However, the strategy involves being long the underlying stock. If the stock keeps rising, the long stock position benefits and the bought put option is not needed and will expire worthlessly. All that will be lost is the premium paid to buy the put option. In this scenario where the original put expired, the investor will buy another protective put, again protecting their holdings.



Protective puts can cover a portion of an investor's long position or their entire holdings. When the ratio of protective put coverage is equal to the amount of long stock, the strategy is known as a married put.



Married puts are commonly used when investors want to buy a stock and immediately purchase the put to protect the position. However, an investor can buy the protective put option at any time as long as they own the stock.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019



The maximum loss of a protective put strategy is limited to the cost of buying the underlying stock—along with any commissions—less the strike price of the put option plus the premium and any commissions paid to buy the option.



The strike price of the put option acts as a barrier where losses in the underlying stock stop. The ideal situation in a protective put is for the stock price to increase significantly, as the investor would benefit from the long stock position. In this case, the put option will expire worthlessly, the investor will have paid the premium, but the stock will have increased in value.





Pros

For the cost of the premium, protective puts provide downside protection from an asset's price declines.
Protective puts allow investors to remain long a stock offering the potential for gains.



Cons

If an investor buys a put and the stock price rises, the cost of the premium reduces the profits on the trade.
If the stock declines in price and a put has been purchased, the premium adds to the losses on the trade.





   Real-World Example of a Protective Put  

Let's say an investor purchased 100 shares of General Electric Company (GE) stock for $10 per share. The price of the stock then increased to $20, giving the investor $10 per share in unrealized gains—unrealized because it has not been sold yet.



The investor does not want to sell their GE holdings, because the stock might appreciate further. They also do not want to lose the $10 in unrealized gains. The investor can purchase a put option for the stock to protect a portion of the gains for as long as the option contract is in force.



The investor buys a put option with a strike price of $15 for 75 cents, which creates a worst-case scenario of selling the stock for $15 per share. The put option expires in three months. If the stock falls back to $10 or below, the investor gains on the put option from $15 and below on a dollar-for-dollar basis. In short, anywhere below $15, the investor is hedged until the option expires.



The option premium cost is $75 ($0.75 x 100 shares). As a result, the investor has locked in a minimum profit equal to $425 ($15 strike price - $10 purchase price =$5 - $0.75 premium = $4.25 x 100 shares = $425).



To put it another way, if the stock declined back to the $10 price point, unwinding the position would yield a profit of $4.25 per share, because the investor earned $5 in profit—the $15 strike less $10 initial purchase price—minus the 0.75 cents premium.



If the investor didn't buy the put option, and the stock fell back to $10, there would be no profit. On the other hand, if the investor bought the put and the stock rose to $30 per share, there would be a $20 gain on the trade. The $20 per share gain would pay the investor $2,000 ($30 - $10 initial purchase x 100 shares = $2000). The investor must then deduct the $75 premium paid for the option and would walk away with a net profit of $1925.



Of course, the investor would also need to consider the commission they paid for the initial order and any charges incurred when they sell their shares. For the cost of the premium, the investor has protected some of the profit from the trade until the option's expiry while still being able to participate in further price increases.



Finally, the investor should realize that the $75 premium for the put is essentially the cost of insurance on the position. One could argue that they would have been better off not buying the put at all if it remains above $10. However, as with all insurance, it provides peace of mind and protection in the case of an adverse event.
What Is a Provident Fund?  

A provident fund is a compulsory, government-managed retirement savings scheme used in Singapore, India, and other developing countries. In some ways, these funds resemble a hybrid of the 401(k) plans and Social Security used in the U.S. They also share some traits with employer-provided pension funds.



Workers give a portion of their salaries to the provident fund and employers must contribute on behalf of their employees. The money in the fund is then held and managed by the government and eventually withdrawn by retirees or, in certain countries, their surviving families. In some cases, the fund also pays out to the disabled who cannot work.





Key Takeaways

A provident fund is a compulsory, government-managed retirement savings scheme used in Singapore, India, and other developing countries.Both the employee and employer contribute to a fund that aims to provide financial support to the employee when they reach retirement.A provident fund is managed by the government, with set minimum and maximum contribution levels.


   How a Provident Fund Works  

The money held in private savings accounts continues to grow in many developing countries, but it's still rare enough to provide most families with a comfortable life in retirement.



The challenge of retirement has been further deepened by social change. Societies in the developing world are still catching up with the rapid rise of industrialization, the movement of citizens from rural areas to urban centers, and changing family structures. In traditional societies, for example, aging adults were provided for by their extended families. But declining birth rates, widely dispersed family members, and longer life expectancies have made it more difficult to sustain this age-old safety net.



For these reasons and more, governments in many developing countries have stepped in to provide long-term financial support to retirees and other vulnerable populations. A provident fund finances such support in a way that readily scales payouts to the available balance and enlists employers and workers to help cover the cost.


  Contributions and Withdrawals  

Each national provident fund sets its own minimum and maximum contribution levels for workers and employers. Minimum contributions can vary depending on a worker’s age. Some funds allow individuals to contribute extra to their benefit accounts, and for employers to also do so, to further benefit their workers.



Governments set the age limit at which penalty-free withdrawals are allowed to begin. Some pre-retirement withdrawals may be allowed under special circumstances, such as medical emergencies. Additionally, in South Africa, provident fund payouts can be claimed at any age if the person has been a non-resident for three years over an uninterrupted period. 



In many countries, those who work past the minimum retirement age may face restricted withdrawals until full retirement. If a worker dies before receiving benefits, the surviving spouse and children may be able to receive survivors' benefits.






Provident funds differ from another vehicle sometimes used in the developing world, the sovereign wealth fund, which is funded through royalties obtained from the development of natural resources.


   Provident Fund vs. Social Security vs. 401(k)  

As is the case with U.S. Social Security, the money in provident funds is held by the government, not by private financial institutions. The government or a provident-fund board largely or entirely decides how contributions are invested.



Some countries such as Singapore outline the interest rate individuals can expect on their premiums. For example, through a longevity insurance annuity scheme, the government will provide up to 6% interest rates. Included in this is up to 2% extra interest provided by the Singaporean government.



Meanwhile, Social Security is managed by the Department of Treasury, where effective interest rates are determined by a formula originating in 1960. Broadly speaking, interest rates are similar to the average yield on Treasury securities which are four years from maturing. In 2020, the estimated effective interest rate on Old Age and Survivor Insurance was 2.6%.



Where some provident funds differ from Social Security is that they are held in individual accounts instead of a group account. With such provident funds, the ownership resembles the arrangements with a U.S. 401(k). However, unlike a 401(k), where the individual determines how the money is invested, the government makes the investment decisions instead.
What Is a Contract Provision?  

A contract provision is a stipulation within a contract, legal document, or a law. A contract provision often requires action by a specific date or within a specified period of time. Contract provisions are intended to protect the interests of one or both parties in a contract.





Key Takeaways

A contract provision is a stipulation in a contract, legal document, or a law.A contract provision often requires action by a certain date or within a certain period of time.One of the most familiar uses of a contract provision is a bond’s call provision, which refers to a specific date; after this date, the company may recall and retire the bond.A sunset provision is a provision in a regulation stating that sections of the law, or the whole law, expire on a set date.


   How a Contract Provision Works  

Contract provisions can be found in a country's laws, in loan documents, and in contract agreements. They also can be found in the fine print accompanying purchases of some stocks.



For example, an anti-greenmail provision is a type of contract provision that is contained in some companies' charters that prevents the board of directors from paying a premium to a corporate raider to drop a hostile takeover bid.



In loan documents, a loan loss provision is a type of contract provision that details an expense set aside to allow for uncollected loans or loan payments. This provision is used to cover a number of factors associated with potential loan losses.


   Special Considerations  

Many laws are written with a sunset provision that automatically repeals them on a specific date unless legislators reenact them. A sunset provision provides for a repeal of the entire law—or sections of the law—once a specific date is reached.



Sunset clauses can help the general public in a few ways. What may be the most common is when a government body writes a provision into law that benefits the public during a certain period of time, usually during a period of specific party power. When the power dynamic shifts, the clause may not be in the best interest of the public anymore, and will be triggered and may free the public from unwanted repercussions from a power shift, such as a tax increase or regulation.



For example, the National Security Agency’s (NSA) authority to collect bulk telephone metadata under the USA PATRIOT Act expired at midnight on June 1, 2015. Any investigations started before the sunset date was allowed to be completed. Many sunsetted portions of the Patriot Act were extended through 2019 with the USA Freedom Act. However, the provision allowing the collection of massive phone data by government agencies was replaced with a new provision that this data must be held by phone providers.



This practice of sunsetting has its parallel in business. For example, a sunset provision in an insurance policy limits a claimant’s time to submit a claim for a covered risk. If the claimant does not act within the defined period, the right to make the claim is forfeited.


   Example of a Contract Provision  

One of the most familiar uses of a contract provision is a bond’s call provision. A bond's call provision refers to a specific date; after this date, the company may recall and retire the bond. The bond investor can turn it in for payment of the face amount (or the face amount plus a premium).



For example, a 12-year bond issue can be called after five years. That first five-year period has a hard call protection. Investors are guaranteed to earn interest until at least the first call date. When an investor buys a bond, the broker typically provides the yield to call as well as the yield to maturity. These two yields show the bond’s investment potential.



If a bond has a soft call provision, the procedure will go into effect after the hard call provision period passes. Soft call protection is typically a premium to face value that the issuer pays for calling the bond before maturity. For example, after the call date is reached, the issuer might pay a 3% premium for calling the bonds for the next year, a 2% premium the following year, and a 1% premium for calling the bonds more than two years after the hard call expires.




What Are Some Typical Contract Provisions?
While all contracts will vary depending on the particular circumstance around what the contract is for and who is involved, nearly all will have at least some of the following basic provisions:payment terms and scheduleobligations of the partiesrepresentations and warrantiesliability issues, disputes, and remediesconfidentialitytermination of the contract




What Is the Difference Between a Contract Provision and Clause?
A provision in a contract stipulates a condition or requirement. A clause is a section or subsection written into a contract, which may contain one or more provisions within it.




What Are Sunrise and Sunset Provisions?
A sunset provision automatically allows for a contract or parts of it to be phased out or automatically terminated at some point in the future.A sunrise provision extends coverage to events occurring before the contract was signed, allowing the insured to keep a level of affordable coverage.
What Does Provision for Credit Losses Mean?  

The provision for credit losses (PCL) is an estimation of potential losses that a company might experience due to credit risk. The provision for credit losses is treated as an expense on the company's financial statements. They are expected losses from delinquent and bad debt or other credit that is likely to default or become unrecoverable. If, for example, the company calculates that accounts over 90 days past due have a recovery rate of 40%, it will make a provision for credit losses based on 40% of the balance of these accounts.


   Understanding Provision for Credit Losses (PCL)  

Because accounts receivable (AR) is expected to turn to cash within one year or an operating cycle, it is reported as a current asset on a company’s balance sheet. However, since accounts receivable may be overstated if a portion is not collectible, the company’s working capital and stockholders’ equity may be overstated as well.



To guard against overstatement, a business may estimate how much of its accounts receivable will most likely not be collected. The estimate is reported in a balance sheet contra asset account called provision for credit losses. Increases to the account are also recorded in the income statement account uncollectible accounts expense.


   Example of Provision for Credit Losses  

Company A’s AR has a debit balance of $100,000 on June 30. Approximately $2,000 is expected to not turn to cash. As a result, a credit balance of $2,000 is reported as a provision for credit losses. The accounting entry for adjusting the balance in the allowance account involves the income statement account uncollectible accounts expense.



Because June was Company A’s first month in business, its provision for credit losses account began the month with a zero balance. As of June 30, when it issues its first balance sheet and income statement, its provision for credit losses will have a credit balance of $2,000.



Because the provision for credit losses is reporting a credit balance of $2,000, and AR is reporting a debit balance of $100,000, the balance sheet reports a net amount of $98,000. As the net amount will likely turn into cash, it is called the net realizable value of the AR.



Company A’s uncollectible accounts expense reports credit losses of $2,000 on its June income statement. Even though none of the AR was due in June, the expense is reported since terms are net 30 days. Company A is attempting to follow the matching principle by matching the bad debts expense to the accounting period in which the credit sales occurred.
What Is a Proxy?  

A proxy is an agent legally authorized to act on behalf of another party or a format that allows an investor to vote without being physically present at the meeting. Shareholders not attending a company's annual general meeting (AGM) may vote their shares by proxy by allowing someone else to cast votes on their behalf, or they may vote by mail.





Key Takeaways

A proxy is an agent legally authorized to act on behalf of another party.The proxy may also allow an investor to vote without being physically present at the annual shareholder's meeting.Management ensures ownership interests are fully represented by encouraging shareholders who are unable to attend annual meetings to vote by proxy.A Proxy Statement is a packet of documents containing information necessary to make informed votes on issues facing the company.


   How Does a Proxy Work?  

While proxy voting is often an option, management encourages shareholders to vote in person. If the shareholder cannot attend, voting by proxy is another option. For a person to act as a proxy for an individual, formal documentation may be required that outlines the extent to which the proxy can speak on the individual's behalf.



A formal power of attorney document may be required to provide the permissions to complete certain actions. The shareholder signs a power of attorney and extends official authorization to the designated individual to vote on behalf of the stated shareholder at the annual meeting.






A proxy cannot vote if the shareholder arrives late and decides to vote for their own self.


   Proxy Statements  

Before the annual shareholder meeting, all shareholders receive a packet of information containing the Proxy Statement. The proxy documents provide shareholders with the information necessary to make informed votes on issues important to the company's performance. A Proxy statement offers shareholders and prospective investors insight into a company's governance and management operations.



The proxy discloses important information on agenda items for the annual meeting, lists the qualifications of management and board members, serves as a ballot for elections to the board of directors, lists the largest shareholders of a company's stock, and provides detailed information about executive compensation. There are also proposals from management and shareholders.



Proxy statements must be filed with regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in the United States, on an annual basis before the company's annual meeting.



When voting by proxy remotely, shareholders may be eligible to vote by mail, phone, or internet. Shareholders use the information in the proxy statements to aid in the decision-making process.






Anyone can look up a public company's proxy statement via the SEC website under the name "DEF 14A."


   Benefits of Proxy  

Management ensures that ownership interests are fully represented by encouraging shareholders that are unable to attend annual meetings to vote by proxy. Before the annual meeting, each shareholder is issued a proxy card, allowing them to state their votes in writing or designate a third party to vote on their behalf.



Proxy voting allows shareholders to vote on the composition of the company's board, the compensation of its officers, and the company's accounting firm. It also allows voting on shareholder proposals.



During corporate elections, the board of elections will recommend their preferred candidates or choices, but the final decision is up to each voter.


   Real-World Example of a Proxy  

Below is a portion of the proxy statement for Tesla Motors in 2022. It lists the date and time of the company's annual general meeting and has instructions for shareholders who wish to participate in the meeting virtually. It also lists the company officers and shareholder proposals that are to be voted on in the meeting, along with the board's recommendations.















A page from Tesla's proxy statement in 2022.


  Proxy Card  

Below is the proxy card showing the specific board members that were to be voted on as well as some of the proposals by management. If the shareholder wanted to vote, the proxy card could be mailed to the corporation.















Proxy Card for Tesla Motors Annual Shareholder's Meeting, 2022.
Securities and Exchange Commission




When Does a Proxy Statement Need to be Filed?
Public companies must file a proxy statement before any meeting where the management submits proposals for a shareholder vote. This can include the election of directors, votes on shareholder proposals, or other corporate decision-making.




What Is in a Proxy Statement?
A typical proxy statement states the date and location of the next shareholder assembly, along with instructions for shareholders who cannot attend in person. It will also include a detailed agenda for the meeting, including elections of directors and shareholder proposals.




Where Can You Find a Proxy Statement?
Public companies will send their proxy statements to the shareholders of record, either through the mail or electronically. You can usually find proxy statements on the company's website. In addition, public companies are also required to file their proxy statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the equivalent regulator in the country where the company is domiciled.


   The Bottom Line  

In business, a proxy allows shareholders to participate in corporate governance even if they cannot be physically present at the general meeting. Proxies are essential in the global economy, where an individual investor might own shares in many companies around the world.
What Is a Proxy Fight?  

A proxy fight refers to the act of a group of shareholders joining forces and attempting to gather enough shareholder proxy votes to win a corporate vote. Sometimes referred to as a "proxy battle,” this action is mainly used in corporate takeovers.



In the process of a corporate takeover–particularly a hostile takeover–outside acquirers may attempt to convince existing shareholders to vote out some (or all) of a company’s senior management to make it easier to seize control over the organization.





Key Takeaways

A proxy fight refers to the act of a group of shareholders joining forces and attempting to gather enough shareholder proxy votes to win a corporate vote.The voting bids in a proxy vote could include replacing corporate management or the board of directors.Proxy fights also emerge over corporate takeovers and mergers, most notably with hostile takeovers.


   How Proxy Fights Work  

Shareholders may appeal to a company’s board of directors if they’re dissatisfied with a specific management decision. But if board members refuse to listen, disgruntled shareholders may attempt to persuade other shareholders to let them use their proxy votes in a campaign to replace unyielding board members with candidates more receptive to implementing the shareholders' proposed changes.



In this scenario, the acquirer and the target company typically use various solicitation methods to influence shareholder votes for replacement board members. Shareholders may be sent a Form DEF 14A–also called a proxy statement–which contains financial information and other data on the target company. If the proxy fight involves the sale of the company, the proxy statement will also include a more granular version of the proposed acquisition.



The acquiring company usually contacts shareholders through a third-party proxy solicitor, who compiles a list of stakeholders. In a further attempt to influence their voting positions, the proxy solicitor may reach out to each stakeholder individually and state the acquirer's case. If shares are registered in the names of stock brokerage firms, proxy solicitors consult with shareholders of that firm in order to influence their voting positions.



In either case, individual shareholders or stock brokerages then submit their votes to a designated entity, such as a stock transfer agent, who aggregates the information. In most cases, proxy solicitors may scrutinize or challenge unclear votes, and they may flag situations where shareholders voted multiple times or neglected to sign their votes.



The acquiring company then forwards the results to the target company's corporate secretary before the shareholders' meeting. Finally, prospective board members are approved or rejected based on the final vote count.


   Special Considerations  

Sometimes shareholders are uninterested or apathetic about reviewing options for new senior management positions, and it can be difficult to arouse their interest in these matters. Shareholders often absently go along with the recommendations mailed to them, without examining the potential director's qualifications or the takeover's key underlying issues.



While the same level of disinterest often applies to acquisition votes, a proxy fight may favor the acquirer, if the target company’s poor financial results negatively impact shareholders—especially if the acquirer has strong ideas for making the company profitable to shareholders. For example, the acquirer may propose selling off some of the business’ underperforming assets or increasing stock dividends.


   Example of a Proxy Fight  

In February 2008, Microsoft Corporation made an unsolicited offer to buy Yahoo for $31 per share. The board of directors at Yahoo believed the offer by Microsoft under-valued the company, and, consequently, the board stalled any negotiations between Microsoft and Yahoo executives.



On May 3, 2008, Microsoft withdrew its offer, and less than two weeks later, billionaire Carl Icahn launched an effort to replace Yahoo’s board of directors through a proxy contest.
What Is a Proxy Statement?  

A proxy statement is a document containing the information the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requires companies to provide to shareholders so they can make informed decisions about matters that will be brought up at an annual or special stockholder meeting. Issues covered in a proxy statement can include proposals for new additions to the board of directors, information on directors' salaries, information on bonus and options plans for directors, and any declarations made by the company's management.





Key Takeaways

Public companies are required to file proxy statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission.The proxy statement is filed when a company is seeking shareholder votes and is filed ahead of an annual meeting.The proxy statement, called a Form DEF 14A, highlights new board of director nominees, proposed executive salary and compensation, and any other information a shareholder may need to vote on an issue.Proxy statements provide shareholders with crucial information needed to assess the qualifications and compensation of key members of the company's management team and board of directors.A proxy statement is different from a proxy vote, in which a shareholder agrees that another person can vote on behalf of the shareholder.


   Understanding Proxy Statements  

A proxy statement must be filed by a publicly traded company before shareholder meetings, and it discloses material matters of the company relevant for soliciting shareholder votes and final approval of nominated directors. Proxy statements are filed with the SEC as Form DEF 14A, or definitive proxy statement, and can be found using the SEC's database, known as the electronic data gathering, analysis and retrieval system (EDGAR).


   What's in a Proxy Statement?  

Proxy statements must disclose the company's voting procedure, nominated candidates for its board of directors, and compensation of directors and executives. The proxy statement must disclose executives' and directors' compensation, including salaries, bonuses, equity awards, and any deferred compensation. Proxy statements can also shed light on any other perks used by executives, such as the use of a company's aircraft, travel, and other material expenses covered by the company.





Important

Because the election of directors is the most important part of shareholders' meetings, a proxy statement goes into great detail about directors, their background information, and how much they had been paid in the past several years.



Additionally, a proxy statement discloses any potential conflict of interest between the company and its directors, executives, and auditors.



Specifically, proxy statements must list any related-party transactions that occurred in the past between the company and its key personnel. The statement also provides information about the company's audit committee, as well as audit and non-audit fees paid to its external public accountant. A proxy statement indicates persons with material ownership of the company's common stock, including its executive officers and directors.


   Benefits of Proxy Statements  

While a proxy statement is most relevant for shareholders preparing for a company's special or annual meeting, this document can aid potential investors in assessing the qualifications and compensation of its management team and board of directors. A finding that chief officers of an underperforming company are paid compensation significantly above those of peers may raise a red flag of excessive spending and weigh on an investor's decision of undertaking an investment. Also, frequent and material related-party transactions between the company and its executives or directors may pose a risk the company's resources are being misused and warrant further investigation.


   Proxy Voting  

With a proxy vote, a shareholder or firm delegates the right to vote on certain company issues to a representative, either because the shareholder cannot physically attend the meeting or because the representative is seen as more informed on the issue. 



Ahead of annual meetings, eligible shareholders might receive a proxy ballot—in the mail or digitally—as well as an information booklet containing proxy materials, called a proxy statement that describes what issues are up for vote. Shareholders most commonly vote to elect board members, to approve executive compensation, to approve mergers or acquisitions, or to approve stock compensation plans. Investors who own applicable voting shares in the company as of the record date may be eligible to vote on these issues.



Since most shareholders can't attend the company meeting, they will often designate someone, such as a member of the company's management team to vote for them. This person is referred to as a proxy and can cast a proxy vote as per the shareholder's wishes, written on their proxy card. Proxy votes are cast online, by phone, or by mail, ahead of the cutoff time, typically 24 hours before the shareholder meeting.


   Special Considerations  

Sometimes companies are at the mercy of what is called a proxy fight or proxy battle. This occurs when a group of shareholders band together so they will have enough power to win a vote. This is usually put in play in corporate takeovers.



When a corporate takeover is particularly contentious to the point that it has become a hostile takeover, the acquiring group may try to convince shareholders to vote out some or all of a company's senior management, so as to make it easier to take control of the organization.


   Proxy Statement FAQs  
  How Do You Find a Foreign Company's Proxy Statement?  

Foreign companies that offer SEC-registered securities in the United States have to file forms with the SEC in a similar way to U.S. companies so as to give investors accurate and timely information. All such forms can be found using EDGAR, the SEC's database. Companies that are not registered with the SEC must post disclosures in English on the internet, as per SEC rules.


  What Happens If a Company Fails to File a Proxy Statement on Time?  

A public company that cannot file quarterly financial results, proxy statements, or other key filings with the SEC on time must file SEC Form 12b-25, also known as the Notification of Late Filing. Filing this form may enable a company to avoid certain fees that it would otherwise owe as a result of the late filing. The company filing the late form must give a reason for the late filing and state whether it expects to divulge any big surprises relative to its prior year's filing of the required form.


  Is a Proxy Agreement the Same As a Proxy Statement?  

A proxy agreement is a written agreement that one person can act legally on behalf of another. In the case of shareholder votes, the proxy agreement states that a proxy can vote on behalf of the principal. That is different from a proxy statement, filed with the SEC, which is a document provided by public companies and filed with the SEC that discloses material matters related to a company's voting procedures, candidates for its board of directors, and executive compensation.


   The Bottom Line  

A proxy statement is a document containing information that the Securities and Exchange Commission requires public companies to disclose to shareholders when requesting votes ahead of an annual meeting.
What Is a Proxy Vote?  

The term proxy vote refers to a ballot cast by a single person or firm on behalf of a corporation's shareholder who may not be able to attend a shareholder meeting, or who may not choose to vote on a particular issue. Shareholders receive a proxy ballot in the mail along with an information booklet called a proxy statement, which describes the issues to be voted on during the meeting. Shareholders vote on a variety of issues including the election of board members, merger or acquisition approvals, or approving a stock compensation plan.



Registered investment management companies may also cast proxy votes on behalf of mutual fund shareholders or high net worth investors in separately managed accounts.





Key Takeaways

A proxy vote is a ballot cast by one person or firm for a company's shareholder who can't attend a meeting, or who doesn't want to vote on an issue.Prior to a company's annual meeting, eligible shareholders may receive voting and proxy information before a shareholder vote.Rather than physically attending the shareholder meeting, investors may elect someone else to vote in their place.A person designated as a proxy will cast a proxy vote in line with the shareholder's directions as written on their proxy card.


   How a Proxy Vote Works  

Publicly-traded companies report their activities to shareholders through their annual meetings. Before those meetings, shareholders receive information on topics to be voted on at the meeting, such as share ownership, the structure of the board of directors (BOD), and executive salary and benefits. Investors who own applicable voting shares in the company as of the company’s record date may be eligible to vote on these issues.



The company may make proxy materials available online, which typically includes an annual report, a proxy statement describing the issues to be voted on, and a proxy card with voting instructions. Materials may also be sent in the mail to investors who are eligible to vote at the annual general meeting (AGM).



Rather than physically attending the shareholder meeting, investors may elect someone else, such as a member of the company's management team, to vote in their place. This person is designated as a proxy and will cast a proxy vote in line with the shareholder's directions as written on their proxy card. Proxy votes may be cast by mail, phone, or online before the cutoff time. This is typically 24 hours before the shareholder meeting. Responses may include "For," "Against," "Abstain," or "Not Voted."



For issues involving topics other than electing directors, such as voting on shareholder proposals, a majority of the votes is what typically leads to approval of the issue.


   Special Considerations  

Sometimes a plurality vote applies when a company elects its board of directors. The winning candidate simply needs more votes than their competitor in a plurality vote. Therefore, an unopposed director only needs one vote to be elected. If shareholders are opposed to the candidate, they may withhold their voting rights.



In some instances, the decision is made based on a majority voting system. When a majority vote applies, directors need to receive a majority of the votes in order to be elected. Because abstaining from voting can impact whether or not a director is elected, the company’s proxy statement must detail how abstained or withheld votes will affect the voting results.


   Example of a Proxy Vote  

On Nov. 25, 2019, Kirkland Lake Gold (KL) announced that it intended to acquire Detour Gold in an all-stock deal.﻿﻿ The two companies would become one company, with Kirkland Lake Gold shareholders owning roughly 73% of the resulting company, leaving 27% for shareholders of Detour Gold.



Although the board members of each company unanimously approved the deal, shareholders were still eligible to vote on the acquisition. All eligible shareholders received voting and proxy information, and per the instructions, shareholders were informed that they could cast their own ballot or appoint someone else to do it for them. The deal was completed in January 2020.﻿﻿



As a result of the deal, Detour Gold shares delisted in February 2020 as the company became a subsidiary of Kirkland Gold.﻿﻿
What Is a Public Company?  

A public company—also called a publicly traded company—is a corporation whose shareholders have a claim to part of the company's assets and profits. In the United Kingdom, this type of company is called a public limited company (PLC). Through the free trade of shares of stock on stock exchanges or over-the-counter (OTC) markets, ownership of a public company is distributed among general public shareholders.



Many Americans invest directly in public companies, and if you have any type of pension plan or own a mutual fund, it's likely that the plan or fund owns some stock in public companies.





Key Takeaways

A public company—also called a publicly traded company—is a corporation whose shareholders have a claim to part of the company's assets and profits.Ownership of a public company is distributed among general public shareholders through the free trade of shares of stock on stock exchanges or over-the-counter (OTC) markets.In addition to its securities trading on public exchanges, a public company is also required to disclose its financial and business information regularly to the public.



In addition to its securities trading on public exchanges, a public company is also required to disclose its financial and business information regularly to the public. If a company has public reporting requirements, it is considered a public company by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).﻿﻿


   Understanding a Public Company  

Most public companies were once private companies. Private companies are owned by their founders, management, or a group of private investors. Private companies also do not have any public reporting requirements. A company is required to conform to public reporting requirements once they meet any of these criteria:



Sell securities in an initial public offering (IPO)Their investor base reaches a certain sizeVoluntarily register with the SEC



An IPO refers to the process by which a private company begins to offer shares to the public in a new stock issuance. Prior to an IPO, a company is considered private. Beginning to issue shares to the public through an IPO is very important for a company because it provides them with a source of capital to fund growth.



In order to complete an IPO, a company must meet certain requirements—both those regulations set forth by the regulators of the stock exchange where they hope to list their shares and those set forth by the SEC. A company usually hires an investment bank to market its IPO, determine the price of its shares, and set the date of its stock issuance.



When a company undergoes an IPO, it typically offers its current private investors share premiums as a way of rewarding them for their prior, private investment in the company. Examples of public companies include Chevron Corporation, Google Inc., and The Proctor & Gamble Company.






The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) states that any company in the U.S. with 2,000 or more shareholders (or 500 or more shareholders that are not accredited investors) must register with the SEC as a public company and adhere to its reporting standards and regulations.﻿﻿


   Advantages of Public Companies  

Public companies have certain advantages over private companies. Namely, public companies have access to the financial markets and can raise money for expansion and other projects by selling stock or bonds. A stock is a security that represents the ownership of a fraction of a corporation. 



Selling stocks allows the founders or upper management of a company to liquidate some of their equity in the company. A corporate bond is a type of loan issued by a company in order for it to raise capital. An investor who purchases a corporate bond is effectively lending money to the corporation in return for a series of interest payments. In some cases, these bonds may also actively trade on the secondary market.



For a company to transition to being publicly traded, it must have achieved a certain level of operational and financial size and success. So, there is some clout attached to being a publicly traded company having your stocks trade on a major market like the New York Stock Exchange.


   Disadvantages of Public Companies  

However, the ability to access the public capital markets also comes with increased regulatory scrutiny, administrative and financial reporting obligations, and corporate governance bylaws to which public companies must comply. It also results in less control for the majority owners and founders of the corporation. In addition, there are substantial costs to conducting an IPO (not to mention the ongoing legal, accounting, and marketing costs of maintaining a public company).



Public companies must meet mandatory reporting standards regulated by government entities, and they must file reports with the SEC on an ongoing basis. The SEC sets stringent reporting requirements for public companies. These requirements include the public disclosure of financial statements and an annual financial report—called a Form 10-K—that gives a comprehensive summary of a company's financial performance.



Companies must also file quarterly financial reports—called Form 10-Q—and current reports on Form 8-K to report when certain events occur, such as the election of new directors or the completion of an acquisition.



These reporting requirements were established by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, a set of reforms intended to prevent fraudulent reporting. Additionally, qualified shareholders are entitled to specific documents and notifications about the corporation's business activities.



Finally, once a company is public, it must answer to its shareholders. Shareholders elect a board of directors who oversee the company's operations on their behalf. Furthermore, certain activities—such as mergers and acquisitions and certain corporate structure changes and amendments—must be brought up for shareholder approval. This effectively means that shareholders can control many of the company's decisions.


   Special Considerations  
  Transitioning From a Public Company to a Private Company  

There may be some situations where a public company no longer wishes to operate within the business model required of a public company. There are many reasons why a public company may decide to go private. A company may decide that it does not want to have to comply with the costly and time-consuming regulatory requirements of a public company, or a company may want to free up its resources to devote to research and development (R&D), capital expenditures, and the funding of pension plans for its employees.



When a company transitions to private, a "take-private" transaction is necessary. In a "take-private" transaction, a private equity firm, or a consortium of private equity firms, either purchase or acquires all of the outstanding stock of the publicly-listed company. Sometimes this requires the private equity firm to secure additional financing from an investment bank or another type of lender that can provide enough loans to help finance the deal.



Once the purchase of all the outstanding shares is complete, the company will be delisted from its associated stock exchanges and return to private operations.
What Is the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB)?  

The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) is a non-profit organization that regulates auditors of publicly traded companies. The purpose of PCAOB is to minimize audit risk. In particular, the PCAOB oversees the audits of public companies, brokers, and dealers registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)





Key Takeaways:

The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) is a non-profit organization that regulates audits of publicly traded companies to minimize audit risk.The PCAOB was established at the same time as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to address the accounting scandals of the late 1990s.The board protects investors and other stakeholders of public companies by ensuring that auditors follow strict guidelines.


   Understanding the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board  

The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) was established with the passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The act was passed in response to various accounting scandals of the late 1990s. The board protects investors and other stakeholders of public companies by ensuring that the auditor of a company's financial statements has followed a set of strict guidelines.



The PCAOB is overseen by the Securities and Exchange Commission and, since 2010, the PCAOB has overseen the audits of SEC-registered brokers and dealers.


   PCAOB Advisory Groups  

The PCAOB has two advisory groups: the Standing Advisory Group and the Investor Advisory Group. The role of these two groups is to provide advice and insight to the Board.



The Standing Advisory Group meets semi-annually to discuss data and technology, cybersecurity, corporate culture, communications on PCAOB standards, the governance and leadership of quality control systems, current or emerging issues affecting audits or auditors, and implementation of the new auditor’s report.



The Investor Advisory Group meets once a year to discuss the group's strategic plan, quality control standards, implementation of the new auditor’s report, and implementation of Form AP. The PCAOB Board has developed a five-step strategic plan, which is laid out in its annual report. The five-step plan is composed of the following:



Drive improvement in the quality of audit services through a combination of prevention, detection, deterrence, and remediation.Anticipate and respond to the changing environment, including emerging technologies and related risks and opportunities.Enhance transparency and accessibility through proactive stakeholder engagement.Pursue operational excellence through efficient and effective use of our resources, information, and technology.Develop, empower, and reward our people to achieve our shared goals.





1,709

The number of PCAOB-registered firms in the United States as of 2021, according to the PCAOB annual report.


   The PCAOB Today  

Firms that audit public companies, brokers, and dealers must register with the PCAOB. Registered firms are subject to inspection of the audits they have performed. PCAOB is involved in setting standards aimed at improving the reliability of audits and may also enforce standards by imposing penalties for infractions.



In 2020, PCAOB sanctioned 13 firms and 18 individuals resulting from 219 audit inspections. In 2021, those numbers were 14 firms and 15 individuals sanctioned following 191 inspections.
What Is a Public Good?  

In economics, a public good refers to a commodity or service that is made available to all members of society. Typically, these services are administered by governments and paid for collectively through taxation.



Examples of public goods include law enforcement, national defense, and the rule of law. Public goods also refer to more basic goods, such as access to clean air and drinking water.





Key Takeaways

Public goods are commodities or services that benefit all members of society, and which are often provided for free through public taxation.Public goods are the opposite of private goods, which are inherently scarce and are paid for separately by individuals.Societies will disagree about which goods should be considered public goods; these differences are often reflected in nations’ government spending priorities.


   How Public Goods Work  

The two main criteria that distinguish a public good are that it must be non-rivalrous and non-excludable. Non-rivalrous means that the goods do not dwindle in supply as more people consume them; non-excludability means that the good is available to all citizens. 



An important issue that is related to public goods is referred to as the free-rider problem. Since public goods are made available to all people–regardless of whether each person individually pays for them–it is possible for some members of society to use the good despite refusing to pay for it. People who do not pay taxes, for example, are essentially taking a "free ride" on revenues provided by those who do pay them, as do turnstile jumpers on a subway system.






National defense, law enforcement, and clean air and water are all examples of public goods.


   Private Goods vs. Public Goods  

The opposite of a public good is a private good, which is both excludable and rivalrous. These goods can only be used by one person at a time—for example, a wedding ring. In some cases, they may even be destroyed in the act of using them, such as when a slice of pizza is eaten. Private goods generally cost money, and this amount pays for their private use. Most of the goods and services that we consume or make use of in our everyday lives are private goods. Although they are not subject to the free-rider problem, they are also not available to everyone, since not everyone can afford to purchase them.



In some cases, public goods are not fully non-rivalrous and non-excludable. For example, the post office can be seen as a public good, since it is used by a large portion of the population and is financed by taxpayers. However, unlike the air we breathe, using the post office does require some nominal costs, such as paying for postage. Similarly, some goods are described as “quasi-public” goods because, although they are made available to all, their value can diminish as more people use them. For example, a country’s road system may be available to all its citizens, but the value of those roads declines when they become congested during rush hour.


   Public Goods in Different Countries  

Individual countries will reach different decisions as to which goods and services should be considered public goods, and this is often reflected in their national budgets. For example, many argue that national defense is an important public good because the security of the nation benefits all of its citizens. To that end, many countries invest heavily in their militaries, financing army upkeep, weapons purchases, and research and development (R&D) through public taxation. In the United States, for example, the Department of Defense (DOD) has a budget of $2 trillion, equal to 16% of the total federal budget for FY 2023.



Some countries also treat social services–such as healthcare and public education–as a type of public good. For example, some countries, including Canada, Mexico, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy, Israel, and China, provide taxpayer-funded healthcare to their citizens. Similarly, government investments in public education have grown tremendously in recent decades. According to estimates by Our World in Data, world literacy has grown from roughly 56% to over 86% between 1950 and 2016 (the most recently available data).



Advocates for this kind of government spending on public goods argue that its economic and social benefits significantly outweigh its costs, pointing to outcomes such as improved workforce participation, higher-skilled domestic industries, and reduced rates of poverty over the medium to long-term. Critics of this kind of spending argue that it can pose a burden on taxpayers and that the goods in question can be more efficiently provided through the private sector.




What Counts As a Public Good?
A public good may vary based on the country, but generally includes services such as national defense or the police, and basic essentials, such as clean air and drinking water. 




What Are the Main Differences Between Private and Public Goods?
A private good is only used by one person at a time and often has a cost associated with it that could make it prohibitive for some people.




What Is a Quasi-Public Good?
Quasi-public goods have elements of both public and private goods, such as a public bridge that is available to all, but loses value when it becomes congested during rush hour. 


   The Bottom Line  

Public goods are commodities or services that are available to all members of society. These are goods that do not become more scarce when people use them. National defense, effective policing, clean air, and public education are all examples of public goods. Private goods, unlike public goods, are goods that are inherently scarce and become more scarce when people consume them.
What Is a Public Limited Company (PLC)?  

A public limited company (PLC) is a public company in the United Kingdom. PLC is the equivalent of a U.S. publicly traded company that carries the Inc. or corporation designation.



The use of the PLC abbreviation after the name of a company is mandatory and communicates to investors and to anyone dealing with the company that it is a publicly traded corporation.





Key Takeaways

PLC, or public limited company, is an abbreviation for public companies in the U.K. All of the companies listed on the London Stock Exchange are PLCs.Any retail investor may buy stock in a PLC.Unlike privately-held companies, public companies must publish certain financial data and disclosures for the public at regular intervals.The formal names of some familiar U.K. brands like Burberry and Shell include the suffix PLC.


   How a Public Limited Company (PLC) Works  

A PLC designates a company that has offered shares of stock to the general public. The buyers of those shares have limited liability, meaning that they cannot be held responsible for any business losses in excess of the amount they paid for the shares.



In the U.K., a PLC operates along similar lines as a public corporation in the U.S. Its operations are regulated and they are required to publish periodic reports to shareholders and prospective shareholders on its true financial health.


   Requirements for a PLC  

U.K. company law says that a PLC must have the PLC designation after the company name and minimum share capital of £50,000. Like a publicly traded company in the U.S., PLCs offer various types of shares, such as ordinary and cumulative preference shares. Ordinary shares of a PLC are similar to common stock issued by U.S. corporations.



Cumulative preference shares are akin to preferred stock in the U.S. Other key requirements for a PLC include offering shares, appointing directors, and adhering to registration requirements. The PLC must also have PLC or public limited company as part of the name. 






The largest PLCs make up the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 Index, known as the Footsie.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a PLC  

The biggest advantage of forming a public limited company (PLC) is that it grants the ability to raise capital by issuing public shares. A listing on a public stock exchange attracts interest from hedge funds, mutual funds, and professional traders as well as individual investors. That tends to lead to increased access to capital for investment in the company than a private limited company can amass.



On the other hand, there's much more regulation for a PLC in the U.K., than there is for a public corporation in the U.S. They are required to hold annual general meetings open to all shareholders and are held to higher standards of transparency in accounting. Because they’re public, they’re also vulnerable to pressure from shareholders and takeover bids from rivals.



By becoming a PLC, the company is given greater access to capital, and shareholders are offered liquidity. These are similar benefits of a company in the U.S. going public. On the downside, becoming a PLC means more scrutiny and required reporting. The company will have more shareholders and the value of the company could become more volatile as it is determined by the financial markets. 





Pros

U.K. companies can raise more capital by being a PLC.
Becoming a PLC allows shareholders liquidity.
Increased ability to raise future capital and make acquisitions (by offering shares to target companies).



Cons

Increased scrutiny and regulation
Larger number of shareholders to be accountable to
Volatility in valuation increases as the company is beholden to financial markets.





   Public Limited Company (PLC) vs. Private Limited Company (LTD)  

A PLC is a public company in the U.K. Meanwhile, there are private limited companies (LTDs), which are private companies in the U.K. Shares of a private limited company are not offered to the general public. 



Private companies are still incorporated, generally with the Companies House. These companies are still required to have legal documents to form the business. Private companies must have at least one director. 



To raise capital via a public investment in the U.K. the company must be a PLC. PLCs are like LTDs, except they are publicly traded, with shares that can be freely sold and traded on a stock exchange. Meanwhile, PLCs must have at least two directors and hold annual shareholder meetings.


   How to Invest in a PLC  

As public companies, any retail investor in the United Kingdom can buy shares in a PLC. The simplest way to do so is through a brokerage: The investor can simply create an account, transfer money, and buy shares of the company. It is also to buy shares through a retirement account, so some people may own PLC shares without even knowing about it.



This may be more complicated for investors outside the United Kingdom. Many U.S. brokerages allow their clients to directly buy shares in foreign markets, exchanging dollars into local currency to make the purchase. In addition, many U.K. companies are tradable in American markets in the form of American depositary receipts. The downside is that the investor would assume an additional level of currency risk.


   Examples of PLCs  

All of the companies listed on the London Stock Exchange are, by definition, PLCs. The fashion retailer Burberry is Burberry Group PLC. Automaker Rolls-Royce is Rolls-Royce Holdings PLC. The 100 largest PLCs on the London Stock Exchange are grouped together in an index called the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 (FTSE 100) or, colloquially, the Footsie.



The companies in this group are representative of the United Kingdom's economy as a whole. The Footsie is comparable to the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) in the U.S. The biggest PLCs by market capitalization in the Footsie, as of July 2022, included Shell, HSBC, and AstraZeneca.



The formal names of all of these companies include the PLC designation. Not all PLCs are listed on a stock exchange. A company may choose not to list on an exchange or may not meet the requirements for listing.




What Does It Mean to Be a Public Limited Company (PLC)?
A PLC is a publicly traded company in the U.K. These companies must have PLC or the words "public limited company" after their name. For example, the oil and gas company, BP plc, is a U.K. publicly traded company that's headquartered in London, England.




Who Is a Public Limited Company Owned by?
Like publicly traded companies headquartered in the U.S., PLCs are owned by shareholders. These companies are traded on exchanges where shares can be openly bought or sold by individuals, companies, and mutual funds. This listing contrast with the limited (Ltd.) listing which does not trade publically and has limitations on shares and shareholders.




What Are the Main Features of a PLC?
The key feature of a PLC is that it's based in the U.K. and is publicly traded. The company must also have the PLC or "public limited company" designation after its name.




What Is the Difference Between a Public and Private Limited Company?
A PLC is a publicly traded company, while a private limited company is also a U.K. company, except it is private. There are other notable differences between the two, such as the fact that a private limited company only has to have one director, while a PLC must have two.


   The Bottom Line  

A PLC is the equivalent of an Inc. or Corp. company that trades in the U.S. stock market. PLCs are publicly traded companies in the U.K. Many famous U.K.-based companies are publicly traded and have the PLC designation after their name, such as consumer goods company Unilever plc and drugmaker AstraZeneca plc.
What Are Public-Private Partnerships?  

Public-private partnerships involve collaboration between a government agency and a private-sector company that can be used to finance, build, and operate projects, such as public transportation networks, parks, and convention centers. Financing a project through a public-private partnership can allow a project to be completed sooner or make it a possibility in the first place.



Public-private partnerships often involve concessions of tax or other operating revenue, protection from liability, or partial ownership rights over nominally public services and property to private sector, for-profit entities.





Key Takeaways

Public-private partnerships allow large-scale government projects, such as roads, bridges, or hospitals, to be completed with private funding.These partnerships work well when private sector technology and innovation combine with public sector incentives to complete work on time and within budget.Risks for private enterprise include cost overruns, technical defects, and an inability to meet quality standards, while for public partners, agreed-upon usage fees may not be supported by demand—for example, for a toll road or a bridge.Despite their advantages, public-private partnerships are often criticized for blurring the lines between legitimate public purposes and private for-profit activity, and for perceived exploitation of the public due to self-dealing and rent-seeking that may occur.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   How Public-Private Partnerships Work  

A city government, for example, might be heavily indebted and unable to undertake a capital-intensive building project, but a private enterprise might be interested in funding its construction in exchange for receiving the operating profits once the project is complete.



Public-private partnerships typically have contract periods of 20 to 30 years or longer. Financing comes partly from the private sector but requires payments from the public sector and/or users over the project's lifetime. The private partner participates in designing, completing, implementing, and funding the project, while the public partner focuses on defining and monitoring compliance with the objectives. Risks are distributed between the public and private partners through a process of negotiation, ideally though not always according to the ability of each to assess, control, and cope with them.



Although public works and services may be paid for through a fee from the public authority's revenue budget, such as with hospital projects, concessions may involve the right to direct users' payments—for example, with toll highways. In cases such as shadow tolls for highways, payments are based on actual usage of the service. When wastewater treatment is involved, payment is made with fees collected from users.






Public-private partnerships are typically found in transport and municipal or environmental infrastructure and public service accommodations.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Public-Private Partnerships  
  Advantages  

Partnerships between private companies and governments provide advantages to both parties. Private-sector technology and innovation, for example, can help improve the operational efficiency of providing public services. The public sector, for its part, provides incentives for the private sector to deliver projects on time and within budget. In addition, creating economic diversification makes the country more competitive in facilitating its infrastructure base and boosting associated construction, equipment, support services, and other businesses.


  Disadvantages  

There are downsides, too.  The private partner may face special risks from engaging in a public-private partnership. Physical infrastructure, such as roads or railways, involve construction risks. If the product is not delivered on time, exceeds cost estimates, or has technical defects, the private partner typically bears the burden.



In addition, the private partner faces availability risk if it cannot provide the service promised. A company may not meet safety or other relevant quality standards, for example, when running a prison, hospital, or school. Demand risk occurs when there are fewer users than expected for the service or infrastructure, such as toll roads, bridges, or tunnels. However, this risk can be shifted to the public partner, if the public partner agreed to pay a minimum fee no matter the demand.



Public-private partnerships also create risks from the general public's and taxpayers' point of view. Private operators' partnership with the government may insulate them from accountability to the users of the public service for cutting too many corners, providing substandard service, or even violating peoples' civil or Constitutional rights. At the same time, the private partner may enjoy a position to raise tolls, rates, and fees for captive consumers who may be compelled by law or geographic natural monopoly to pay for their services.



Lastly, as with any situation where ownership and decision rights are separated, public-private partnerships can create complex principal-agent problems. This may facilitate corrupt dealings, pay-offs to political cronies, and general rent-seeking activity by attenuating the link between the private parties who make important decisions over a project, from which they stand to benefit, and accountability to the taxpayers who foot at least part of the bill and who may be left holding the bag in terms of ultimate liability for the project's outcome.    


   Public-Private Partnership Examples  

Public-private partnerships are typically found in transport infrastructure such as highways, airports, railroads, bridges, and tunnels. Examples of municipal and environmental infrastructure include water and wastewater facilities. Public service accommodations include school buildings, prisons, student dormitories, and entertainment or sports facilities.




What Is an Example of a Public-Private Partnership?
Public-private partnerships can be found in infrastructure projects such as in building toll roads and highways. One example is Canada's 407 Express Toll Route (407 ETR). This 67-mile stretch of highway was a PPP between the provincial government of Ontario and a private consortium that was responsible for the design, construction, financing, and maintenance of the highway with a lease term of 99 years, during which time they are permitted to collect tolls from users of the roadway. However, traffic levels and toll revenues were not guaranteed by the government).




What Is Revenue Risk in a Public-Private Partnership?
Revenue risk is the chance that the private party to a PPP will not be able to recover its costs or ongoing expenses from operating a piece of infrastructure. For a toll road, this may be due to lower than expected traffic or limits set on toll rates. Extensive studies should be conducted ahead of time to avoid this risk and plan for contingencies.




What Are Some Types of Public-Private Partnership?
Public-private partnerships can be arranged in several ways. Here are just a few:Build Operate Transfer (BOT): A government hands over all construction and operations to a private party for a set number of years (often several decades or more). After that period of time, it is transferred to the government.Build Operate Own (BOO): The same as a BOT, but the private entity is not required to ever transfer the project to the government.Design-Build (DB): A government contracts with a private party to design and construct a project for a fee. The government retains ownership and may either operate it itself or contract out operations.Buy Build Operate (BBO): a government sells a pre-existing project that has already been completed and may have been operated by the government for some time to a private party, who will take it over fully. The private party may need to invest in rehabilitating or expanding the project.


   The Bottom Line  

Governments use public-private partnerships to collaborate with private sector companies in order to finance projects. While there are benefits and drawbacks to these types of partnerships, governments still use them frequently to finance transportation, municipal, and environmental infrastructure, as well as public service projects.
What is a Pullback?  

A pullback is a pause or moderate drop in a stock or commodities pricing chart from recent peaks that occur within a continuing uptrend. A pullback is very similar to retracement​ or consolidation, and the terms are sometimes used interchangeably. The term pullback is usually applied to pricing drops that are relatively short in duration—for example, a few consecutive sessions—before the uptrend resumes.





Key Takeaways


A pullback is a temporary reversal in the upside price action of an asset or security.
The duration of a pullback is usually only a few consecutive sessions. A longer pause before the uptrend resumes is generally referred to as consolidation.
Pullbacks can provide an entry point for traders looking to enter a position when other technical indicators remain bullish.
Traders can use limit orders or stop entry orders to take advantage of a pullback to get in on the primary uptrend. 



   What Does a Pullback Tell You?  

Pullbacks are widely seen as buying opportunities after a security has experienced a large upward price movement. For example, a stock may experience a significant rise following a positive earnings announcement and then experience a pullback as traders with existing positions take the profit off the table, i.e., selling some or all of their long positions. The positive earnings, however, are a fundamental signal that suggests that the stock will resume its uptrend.



Most pullbacks involve a security’s price moving down to an area of technical support, such as a moving average, pivot point, or Fibonacci retracement level before resuming the uptrend. Traders should carefully watch these key areas of support because a breakdown from them could signal a reversal rather than simply a pullback.


   Example of How to Use a Pullback  

Pullbacks typically don’t change the underlying fundamental narrative that is driving the price action on a chart. They are usually profit-taking opportunities following a strong run-up in a security’s price. For example, a company may report blow-out earnings and see shares jump 20%. The stock may experience a pullback the next day as short-term traders lock in profits by selling some of their long positions. However, the strong earnings report suggests that the business underlying the stock is doing something right. Buy-and-hold traders and investors will likely be attracted to the stock by the strong earnings reports, supporting a sustained uptrend in the near term.



Every stock chart has examples of pullbacks within the context of a prolonged uptrend. While these pullbacks are easy to spot in retrospect, they can be harder to assess for investors holding a security that’s losing value.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2022



In the example above, the SPDR S&P 500 ETF (SPY) experiences four pullbacks within the context of a prolonged trend higher. These pullbacks typically involved a move to near the 50-day moving average where there was technical support before a rebound higher. Traders should be sure to use several different technical indicators when assessing pullbacks to ensure that they don’t turn into longer-term reversals.


   The Difference Between a Reversal and a Pullback  

Pullbacks and reversals both involve a security moving off its highs, but pullbacks are temporary and reversals are longer-term. So how can traders distinguish between the two? Most reversals involve some change in a security’s underlying fundamentals that force the market to re-evaluate its worth. For example, a company may report disastrous earnings that make investors recalculate a stock’s net present value. Similarly, it could be a negative settlement, a new competitor releasing a product or some other event that will have a long-term impact on the company underlying the stock.



These events, while happening outside the chart, so to speak, will appear over several sessions and initially will seem much like a pullback.






Traders use moving averages, trendlines, and trading bands to flag when a pullback keeps going and is at risk of entering reversal territory.


   Limitations in Trading Pullbacks  

The biggest limitation of trading pullbacks is that a pullback could be the start of a true reversal. Being that both pullbacks and reversals happen on a range of timeframes, including intraday if you want to go granular, one trader's multisession pullback is actually a reversal for a day trader looking at the same chart. If the price action breaks the trendline for your time frame, then you may be looking at a reversal rather than a pullback.



In this case, it is not the time to enter a bullish position. Of course, adding other technical indicators and fundamental data scans to the mix will increase a trader's confidence in distinguishing pullbacks from true reversals.




How Can I Tell if a Decline in an Uptrend is Just a Pullback or Something More?
The first place to look is at the fundamental story behind the uptrend. Has fresh, negative news hit the particular security and precipitated the pullback? Or is the pullback part of an overall, general market decline (e.g., Wall Street had a bad day)? You can also monitor key technical support levels to see if they hold. In case they fail, you might be looking at a more significant correction or even a reversal.




How Can Traders Take Advantage of a Pullback to Enter at a Cheaper Level?
First, look at the fundamental story underpinning the uptrend. If nothing serious in the way of bad news has hit the security, you're likely looking at just a mild pullback. In this case, traders can use a variety of orders to establish long positions at relatively cheaper levels. Traders can enter immediately with a buy market order or wait for lower levels with a limit buy order. In case the pullback ends and prices begin to move higher, traders can use a stop buy entry order at a level above the current market.




How Can I Tell if an Uptrend is Ending or Simply Undergoing a Pullback?
Double-check to make sure nothing has changed in the fundamental picture of the underlying security. Next, take a look at trend and momentum indicators (e.g., relative strength index or RSI, average directional index or ADX, moving average convergence divergence, or MACD) to see if they're turning lower, potentially signaling a more significant decline is at hand. If either of these conditions is met, take a step back and consider whether the uptrend has hit a significant high and tighten up your stop-loss sell order to minimize potential further losses.


   The Bottom Line  

Pullbacks are a normal part of any sustained uptrend. They can be triggered by profit-taking after a sudden surge higher in the price of a security, or some minor negative news about the underlying security. Trend-following traders frequently use pullbacks to get in on the dominant uptrend, or to add to existing longs. They can do this through buy limit orders, stop buy entry orders, or just a plain market order if they want to jump right in.



Pullbacks usually stabilize or find a near-term bottom at consequential technical levels, such as a daily moving average, a bollinger band, or a Fibonacci retracement, to name just a few technical support levels. It is important to note that if these support levels fail, you may be looking at a bigger correction, or even a total reversal.



Traders should look at other indicators, such as momentum oscillators like the RSI, to see if there are any bearish divergences that may signal a deeper correction. But if the fundamental picture for a company or currency has not changed significantly, it increases the likelihood that it's just a normal pullback that should stabilize over a few sessions, and offer buyers a chance to get in on the primary uptrend at a cheaper price.
What Is Pump-and-Dump?  

Pump-and-dump is a manipulative scheme that attempts to boost the price of a stock or security through fake recommendations. These recommendations are based on false, misleading, or greatly exaggerated statements. The perpetrators of a pump-and-dump scheme already have an established position in the company's stock and will sell their positions after the hype has led to a higher share price.



This practice is illegal based on securities law and can lead to heavy fines. The burgeoning popularity of cryptocurrencies has resulted in the proliferation of pump-and-dump schemes within the industry.





Key Takeaways

Pump-and-dump is an illegal scheme to boost a stock's or security's price based on false, misleading, or greatly exaggerated statements.Pump-and-dump schemes usually target micro- and small-cap stocks.People found guilty of running pump-and-dump schemes are subject to heavy fines.Pump-and-dump schemes are increasingly found in the cryptocurrency industry.


   The Basics of Pump-and-Dump  

Pump-and-dump schemes were traditionally conducted through cold calling. The advent of the Internet has shifted most of this activity online; fraudsters can now blast hundreds of thousands of email messages to unsuspecting targets or post messages online enticing investors to buy a stock quickly.



These messages typically claim to have inside information about an imminent development that will lead to a dramatic upswing in the share's price. Once buyers jump in and the stock has moved up significantly, the perpetrators of the pump-and-dump scheme sell their shares. In these instances, the volume of the sales of these shares is usually substantial, causing the stock price to drop dramatically. In the end, many investors experience huge losses.



Pump-and-dump schemes generally target micro- and small-cap stocks on over-the-counter exchanges that are less regulated than traditional exchanges. Micro-cap stocks—and occasionally, small-cap stocks—are favored for this type of abusive activity because they are easier to manipulate. Micro-cap stocks generally have a small float, low trading volumes, and limited corporate information. As a result, it does not take a lot of new buyers to push a stock much higher.


   Pump-and-Dump 2.0  

The same scheme can be perpetrated by anyone with access to an online trading account and the ability to convince other investors to buy a stock that is supposedly "ready to take off." The schemer can get the action going by buying heavily into a stock that trades on low volume, which usually pumps up the price.



The price action induces other investors to buy heavily, pumping the share price even higher. At any point when the perpetrator feels the buying pressure is ready to fall off, they can dump their shares for a big profit.


   Pump-and-Dump in Pop Culture  

The pump-and-dump scheme formed the central theme of two popular movies: "Boiler Room" and "The Wolf of Wall Street." Both of these movies featured a warehouse full of telemarketing stockbrokers pitching penny stocks. In each case, the brokerage firm was a market maker and held a large volume of shares in companies with highly questionable prospects. The firms' leaders incentivized their brokers with high commissions and bonuses for placing the stock in as many customer accounts as possible. In doing so, the brokers were pumping up the price through huge volume selling.



Once the selling volume reached critical mass with no more buyers, the firm dumped its shares for a huge profit. This drove the stock price down, often below the original selling price, resulting in big losses for the customers because they could not sell their shares in time.


   Avoiding Pump-and-Dump Schemes  

The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has some tips to help avoid becoming a victim of a pump-and-dump scheme. Here are some points to keep in mind:


  Be Extremely Wary of Unsolicited Investment Offers  

Exercise extreme caution if you receive an unsolicited communication regarding an "investment opportunity." The plethora of avenues for virtual communication means that such dubious investment pitches can reach you in any number of ways—by way of an email, a comment or post on your social media page, a direct message, or a call or voicemail on your cellphone. Ignore such messages; acting on them may result in significant losses rather than the massive gains promised by the scammers.


  Look Out for Obvious Red Flags  

Does the purported investment sound too good to be true? Does it promise huge "guaranteed" returns? Are you pressured to buy right now, before the stock takes off? These are all common tactics used by stock touts and unscrupulous promoters and should be viewed as red flags by investors.


  Look Out for Affinity Fraud  

Affinity fraud refers to investment scams that prey upon members of identifiable groups, such as religious or ethnic communities, aging adults, or professional groups. An investment pitch from a member of a group that you are affiliated with may lead you to believe in its credibility; the problem is that the member may have been unwittingly fooled into believing that an investment is legitimate (when in reality, it is just a scam).


  Conduct Your Own Research and Due Diligence  

Before you invest your hard-earned money, conduct your own research and due diligence. It is fairly easy to obtain a wealth of information online about legitimate companies—from their business prospects and management to their financial statements. The lack of such information can often be a red flag in itself.


   Pump-and-Dump 3.0  

The cryptocurrency market has become the newest arena for pump-and-dump schemes. The massive gains made by Bitcoin and Ethereum have kindled tremendous interest in cryptocurrencies of every stripe. Unfortunately, cryptocurrencies are particularly well-suited for pump-and-dump schemes because of the lack of regulation in the cryptocurrency market, its opaqueness, and the technical complexity of cryptocurrencies.



A study conducted in 2018 examined the prevalence of pump-and-dump schemes in the cryptocurrency market. Researchers identified more than 3,400 such schemes over the course of just six months observing two group-messaging platforms popular with cryptocurrency investors.



In March 2021, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) advised customers to avoid pump-and-dump schemes that can occur in thinly traded or new cryptocurrencies. The CFTC also unveiled a program that would make any whistleblower eligible for a monetary reward of between 10% and 30%, as long as they reveal original enforcement action that leads to monetary sanctions of $1 million or more against a pump-and-dump scheme.
What is Pump Priming?  

Pump priming is the action taken to stimulate an economy, usually during a recessionary period, through government spending and interest rate and tax reductions. The term pump priming is derived from the operation of older pumps - a suction valve had to be primed with water so that the pump would function properly.


   Understanding Pump Priming  

Pump priming assumes that the economy must be primed to function properly once again. In this regard, government spending is assumed to stimulate private spending, which in turn should lead to economic expansion.





Key Takeaways

Pump priming refers to the steps taken to stimulate spending in an economy during or after a recession. Generally, it involves pumping small amounts of government funds into a depressed economy to encourage growth. 


   Small Amounts of Government Funds  

Pump priming involves introducing relatively small amounts of government funds into a depressed economy in order to spur growth. This is accomplished through the increase in purchasing power experienced by those affected by the injection of funds, with the goal of prompting higher demand for goods and services. The increase in demand experienced through pump priming can lead to increased profitability in the private sector, which assists with overall economic recovery.



Pump priming relates to the Keynesian economic theory, named after noted economist John Maynard Keynes, which states that government intervention within the economy, aimed at increasing aggregate demand, can result in a positive shift within the economy. This is based on the cyclic nature of money within an economy, in which one person’s spending directly relates to another person’s earnings, and that increase in earnings leads to a subsequent increase in spending.


   The Use of Pump Priming in the United States  

The phrase "pump priming" originated from President Herbert Hoover's creation of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation (RFC) in 1932, which was designed to make loans to banks and industry. This was taken one step further in 1933, when President Franklin Roosevelt felt that pump-priming would be the only way for the economy to recover from the Great Depression. Through the RFC and other public works organizations, billions of dollars were spent priming the pump to encourage economic growth.



The phrase was rarely used in economic policy discussions after World War II, even though programs developed and used since then, such as unemployment insurance and tax cuts, may be considered forms of automatic pump primers. However, during the financial crisis of 2007, the term came back into use, as interest rate reduction and infrastructure spending were considered the best path to economic recovery, along with tax rebates issued as part of the Economic Stimulus Act of 2008.


   Pump Priming in the Japanese Economy  

Similar to activities used within the United States, Japan’s prime minister, Shinzo Abe, and his associated cabinet approved a stimulus package in 2015, equivalent to $29.1 billion, in hopes of invigorating the strained economy. The goal was to increase the gross domestic product (GDP) of Japan by 0.7% by the end of the year 2016.
What Is a Purchase Annual Percentage Rate (APR)?  

A purchase annual percentage rate (APR) is the interest rate that your credit card issuer will charge you on purchases when you carry a balance on your card. In addition to purchase APRs, credit cards can have different APRs for cash advances and balance transfers. They may also have introductory APRs for a certain period after you sign up and penalty APRs for missing payments.





Key Takeaways

A credit card's APR is an annualized percentage rate that is applied each month to unpaid balances. The monthly interest amount that appears on the bill is one-twelfth of the annual APR.The purchase APR is the interest charged on purchases you have made with the card.Most credit cards have several APRs attached. Different rates for purchases and cash advances are common.The APRs on a credit card can be changed by the credit card company even if it is a "fixed-rate" card.


   How Purchase APRs Work  

The APR on a credit card is an annualized percentage rate that is applied monthly. If the advertised APR on a credit card is 19%, for example, then an interest rate of 1.58% will be imposed on the outstanding balance each month.



If you pay the balance in full no later than the due date, you can avoid paying interest on any purchases that you've made. The time between the end of a monthly billing cycle and your card's payment due date is known as the card's grace period. It's only when you carry a balance after the due date that you will have to pay interest on your purchases.



As mentioned, any given credit card may come with several different APRs attached. The APR on cash advances, for example, is typically higher than that for purchases. In addition, the interest on cash advances begins accruing immediately, unlike the interest on purchases. Introductory APRs, sometimes referred to as teaser rates, are lower than the regular purchase APR, sometimes as low as 0% for a period of time.


   How Purchase APRs Can Change  

When you sign up for a credit card, its purchase APR and other APRs will be shown in your credit card agreement.



Those rates can change over time, for several reasons. For example, the credit card issuer is allowed to change the rate if it gives you 45 days' notice and states a reason for doing so. The reason might be a late payment that you made or a recent drop in your credit score. Any new purchases you make with the card more than 14 days after you've received the advance notice will be subject to the new rate.



However, credit card companies are prohibited from increasing interest rates on new transactions during the first year after an account is opened.



Many cards also impose a penalty or default APR that is triggered if a payment is late or you have exceeded the card's credit limit. The penalty APR always applies to future purchases after such an event, but it can also be applied to the existing balance if a payment is more than 60 days late.



Your purchase APR can also change if your card charges a variable rather than a fixed rate. As noted above, no APR is totally "fixed" since it can be changed by the card issuer with 45 days' notice. With a variable rate card, however, the issuer is free to change it quarterly or monthly, based on the movement of a particular index, such as the prime rate, and isn't required to give you advance notice. Your new rate would be the prime rate (or other benchmark index) plus some set percentage. Your credit card agreement should indicate how much the APR can change over time.


   What Is a Good APR?  

As of June 2023, the median credit card interest rate for all credit cards in the Investopedia database was 23.74%. However, rates varied widely, even for any given issuer. For example, the APRs on Bank of America credit cards ranged from 17.74% on the low end to 26.99% at the high end. Those differences can be due to a number of factors, including the type of card (for example, rewards cards tend to carry higher interest rates) and the creditworthiness of the individual cardholder. The lowest rates tend to be available to cardholders with the highest credit scores.



Before their full rate kicks in, some cards offer introductory purchase APRs for a limited period, which may range from several months to a year or more. If you carry a balance after the promotional period ends, the card will begin to charge its full purchase APR on that balance.




What's the Difference Between an Interest Rate and an Annual Percentage Rate?
In the case of credit cards, interest rates must be stated as an annual percentage rate, or APR, so they are basically the same thing. With other types of loans (such as mortgages or car loans) the interest rate and APR can be different because the APR will include both the basic interest rate and any additional fees.




How Can You Get a Better Purchase APR on a Credit Card?
When you're looking for a new credit card, it pays to shop around. You'll also improve your odds of getting the best rate if you have a strong credit score. Fortunately, there are a number of things you can do to raise your credit score and keep it up there. Also consider cards with low introductory interest rates. Just remember to pay off your balance before the promotional period ends and the card starts charging its full rate.




How Do Balance Transfer Credit Cards Work?
Balance transfer credit cards allow you to move some or all of your balance on an existing credit card to a new card, typically one with a low introductory interest rate for a certain period of time. Balance transfer cards can save you money in that way, but they typically charge fees equal to a percentage of the amount you're transferring, such as 3% to 5%, so there are costs to weigh.


   The Bottom Line  

The purchase APR on your credit card is important to consider if you expect to carry a balance on the card rather than paying it off in full each month. APRs can vary widely from card to card, and some cards offer low or even 0% APRs for a limited period of time.
What Is the Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI)?  

The Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) is an index of the prevailing direction of economic trends in the manufacturing and service sectors. It consists of a diffusion index that summarizes whether market conditions are expanding, staying the same, or contracting as viewed by purchasing managers. The purpose of the PMI is to provide information about current and future business conditions to company decision-makers, analysts, and investors.





Key Takeaways

The Purchasing Managers Index is a measure of the prevailing direction of economic trends in manufacturing.The PMI is based on a monthly survey of supply chain managers across 19 industries, covering both upstream and downstream activity.The value and movements in the PMI and its components can provide useful insight to business decision makers, market analysts, and investors, and is a leading indicator of overall economic activity in the U.S.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   Formula and Calculation of the Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI)  

The PMI is calculated as: 



PMI = (P1 * 1) + (P2 * 0.5) + (P3 * 0)



Where:



P1 = percentage of answers reporting an improvement  P2 = percentage of answers reporting no change P3 = percentage of answers reporting a deterioration 



Other companies also produce PMI numbers, including IHS Markit Group, which puts out the PMI for various countries outside the U.S.  


   How the PMI Works  

The PMI is a key economic tool and is among the most reliable leading indicators of the U.S. economy. The index is reported by manufacturing and services. There is also a hospital PMI that is released on a monthly basis. The index sheds insight into the business environment and also helps companies get a grasp on where the economy is headed.



It is a survey-based indicator that is compiled and released each month by the Institute for Supply Management (ISM). The survey is sent to senior executives at more than 400 companies in 19 primary industries, which are weighted by their contribution to U.S. gross domestic product (GDP).



The surveys include questions about business conditions and any changes, whether they are improving or deteriorating, or have no changes. The PMI is based on five major survey areas—each of which is weighted equally:



New ordersInventory levelsProductionSupplier deliveriesEmployment



The headline PMI is a number from 0 to 100. A PMI above 50 represents an expansion when compared with the previous month. A PMI reading under 50 represents a contraction while a reading at 50 indicates no change. The further away from 50, the greater the level of change. 






The Purchasing Managers' Index results are released on the first Monday of every month.


   Using the PMI  

The PMI and relevant data produced from the monthly surveys by the ISM are critical decision-making tools for a variety of areas. including management, suppliers, and investors.


  Corporate Managers  

Management can use the monthly PMI results to make key decisions about their own businesses. For instance, an automobile manufacturer makes production decisions based on the new orders it expects from customers in future months.



Those new orders drive the purchasing decisions of its leadership about dozens of component parts and raw materials, such as steel and plastic. Existing inventory balances also drive the amount of production the manufacturer needs to complete to fill new orders and to keep some inventory on hand at the end of the month.


  Suppliers  

Suppliers also make decisions based on the PMI. A parts supplier for a manufacturer follows the PMI to estimate the amount of future demand for its products. The supplier also wants to know how much inventory its customers have on hand, which also affects the amount of production its clients must generate.



PMI information about supply and demand affects the prices that suppliers can charge. So if the manufacturer's new orders are growing, it may raise customer prices and accept price increases from its suppliers. On the other hand, when new orders decline, the manufacturer may have to lower its prices and demand a lower cost for the parts it purchases.



A company can use the PMI to help plan its annual budget, manage staffing levels, and forecast cash flow.


  Investors  

Investors can also use the PMI to their advantage because it is a leading indicator of economic conditions. The direction of the trend in the PMI tends to precede changes in the trend in major estimates of economic activity and output, such as the GDP, industrial production, and employment. Paying attention to the value and movements in the PMI can yield profitable foresight into developing trends in the overall economy.




What Are the Results of the Current Purchasing Managers' Index?
The Manufacturing PMI came in at 46.9% in May 2023, which was a drop from the 47.1% reported in April 2023. The monthly report indicated that there was a contraction in new orders and backlogs while production and employment showed growth from the previous month.The Services PMI showed continued economic growth with a reading of 50.3% in May 2023. The ISM indicated that this was the fifth consecutive month of growth in this area.




What Is the Global PMI?
The Global PMI is an economic indicator that is derived from questionnaires sent to manufacturing and services companies in more than 40 different countries. The survey gets responses from roughly 28,000 global companies and represents 89% of global GDP.




What Does a High PMI Reading Indicate?
The Purchasing Managers' Index reading can range between 0 and 100. If the index reading is higher than 50, then it indicates an economic expansion. This means that the closer the reading is to 100, the higher the degree of positive economic growth. A reading below 50 indicates an economic contraction, with readings closer to 0 indicating a higher degree of contraction. A reading of 50 indicates no change in the economic environment.


   The Bottom Line  

Investors, economists, and analysts have a wealth of information to help them gauge where the economy is headed. One leading indicator is the Purchasing Managers' Index. Released every month, it is derived from a survey sent out by the Institute for Supply Management to more than 400 companies in various sectors. Responses are compiled and a reading is reported based on how these companies feel about the current economic climate. A high reading indicates positive growth while a low one points to a contraction.
What Is a Purchase Money Security Interest (PMSI)?  

Purchase money security interest (PMSI) refers to a legal claim that allows a lender to either repossess property financed with its loan or to demand repayment in cash if the borrower defaults. It gives the lender priority over claims made by other creditors.



In simpler terms, a PSMI gives initial claims on property to entities that finance purchases made by a consumer or other debtor.





Key Takeaways

A PMSI gives a retailer or supplier priority for collecting on debt when a borrower or buyer defaults.The goods sold in PMSI cases serve as collateral that can be seized for nonpayment.For inventory goods, the lending party must notify other parties with potential secured interest claims as well as file a UCC-1 legal notice.For non-inventory goods, the lending party must file a UCC-1 before the borrower takes possession of the goods or within the first 20 days after.Though creditors are often prioritized based on the timing of their secured interest, PMSI creates an exception that allows creditors to "jump the line" even if they weren't first.


   Understanding Purchase Money Security Interest  

Lenders have several options to protect their financial interests if debtors fail to live up to their financial obligations. Financial companies may be able to pursue consumers who stop making payments on their debts by sending them to collections, taking legal action, enforcing liens, or taking out special interests such as purchase money security interests. This interest gives a specific lender a right to property or its full cash value before any other creditor—as long as that lender's money was used to finance the purchase.



A PMSI is used by some commercial lenders and credit card issuers as well as by retailers who offer financing options. It effectively gives them collateral to confiscate if a borrower defaults on payment for a large purchase. It also is used in business-to-business (B2B) transactions. The option of obtaining a PMSI encourages companies to increase sales by directly financing new equipment or inventory purchases.



A purchase money security interest is valid in most jurisdictions once the buyer agrees to it in writing and the lender files a financing statement. The procedure is outlined in Article 9 of the Uniform Commercial Code (UCC)—the standardized business regulations adopted by most states.



These regulations were adopted to make it easier for corporations to conduct business with others across state lines. Article 9 is the section of the code that outlines the treatment of secured transactions including how security interests are created and enforced.



The protection provided by a PMSI is one reason for the growth of point-of-sale financing, in which a retailer offers buyers direct financing for major purchases. If the purchaser defaults, the retailer may repossess the items purchased and may do so before any other creditors are satisfied.






The procedures permitting enforcement of a PMSI are strict and outlined in the Uniform Commercial Code (UCC).


   Purchase Money Security Interest Rules  

PMSI rules vary based on the type of collateral obtained using loan proceeds. In general, the broadest rule is that PMSI is granted to the first creditor who filed a financing statement or "perfected" its security interest in the collateral.



Below are the specific rules for inventory and non-inventory collateral, although there are specific rules for other types of goods as well.


  PMSI Rules: Inventory Collateral  

Section 9-324(b) outlines the rules to perfect PMSI in inventory. First, the PMSI must be perfected when the borrower takes possession of the inventory. Second, the secured party must provide notification to conflicting security holders before perfection. Third, the secured party must notify other security holders that it expects to acquire a PMSI in the borrower's inventory.



To perfect a PMSI in inventory, the secured party must file a UCC-1 that identifies the goods sold as collateral. This filing provides notice to other interested parties that the secured party is in the process of obtaining a PMSI on the borrower's personal property. In addition, the written notice delivered to other security notices must be distributed no more than five years before the borrower receives inventory.


  PMSI Rules: Non-Inventory Collateral  

The rules for securing a PMSI for non-inventory collateral are often less rigid. The secured party must be able to demonstrate that the credit they extended to the borrower was used to purchase the collateral. The secured party must also file a financing statement covering the collateral within 20 days of the borrower receiving possession of the collateral.



Similar to inventory PMSIs, a secured party must file a UCC-1 to perfect a PMSI for non-inventory collateral. This must be filed before the borrower takes possession of the collateral or within the first 20 days of possession. If the filing takes place after these 20 days, the secured party won't have PMSI priority and will be prioritized after other perfected security interests.






The financing statement for non-inventory collateral can be pre-filed before the borrower takes possession of the goods. In addition, keep copies of every delivery document, as a PMSI claim may be vulnerable to disqualification if the date of possession is in question.


   Establishing Security Interest as the Seller  

At the core of PMSI, the party attempting to gain the secured interest must demonstrate that the credit they extended was used to acquire the collateral. For this reason, a company may want to intentionally structure an order of payments or series of contracts for goods not yet manufactured.



For example, if a consumer arranged to buy a custom-made sofa on credit from a furniture retailer, the retailer would put through an order with the manufacturer and pay for the sofa before finalizing the financing agreement. In this case, the retailer is the owner selling the sofa—not the manufacturer. In legal terms, the retailer has a security interest in the property just sold and can obtain and enforce a PMSI.



For the same reason, if the buyer puts down a security deposit on the sofa, the retailer may insist that the buyer pays for it in full before the security deposit is returned. This establishes the full dollar value that the lender is entitled to demand in case of default. Court rulings regarding PMSI claims have established the lender's right to demand reimbursement of other costs related to the purchase, such as freight charges and sales taxes.




How Do I Get a Purchase Money Security Interest (PMSI)?
A PMSI is obtained when a creditor lends money to a borrower and the borrower uses that money to buy goods. In return, the borrower grants the creditor a security interest in those goods should they default on their loan. Different types of collateral or goods have different rules, but the broadest requirements state the secured party must file a UCC-1 to publicly communicate their intention to gain a secured interest in a good. The secured party also may be required to notify other potential secured parties.




What Is a Purchase Money Security Interest Under the UCC?
A PMSI under the Uniform Commercial Code is an exception to the first-in-time creditor prioritization rule. The UCC states that creditor priority for secured interests is often dictated by who was the first secured creditor (or the timing of when their interest occurred). The PMSI exception allows for creditors who may not be first to still secure an interest in collateral, should they meet filing requirements.




Does a Purchase Money Security Interest Trump a Blanket Lien?
Yes, a PMSI can receive priority status over a previously perfected blanket lien. The PMSI must have been perfected within statutory requirements. For example, the PMSI receives priority status only if it is filed before or within the first 20 days of the borrower's possession of the goods.




What Is an Example of a PMSI?
A car loan can be an example of a PMSI situation. A financial institution may agree to lend money to a borrower to finance the purchase of a new car. The bank can register its interest in the car as a PMSI because the loan funds are being directly used to buy the property it wants a secured interest in.


   The Bottom Line  

Creditors are often prioritized in terms of timing. The PMSI exception allows credits that may not be first in line to still get a secured interest in collateral. To gain this secured interest, the lender must be sure its loan funds were used to buy the goods, file a UCC-1, and follow other regulatory rules based on the type of collateral.
What Is a Purchase-Money Mortgage?  

A purchase-money mortgage is a mortgage issued to the borrower by the seller of a home as part of the purchase transaction. Also known as a seller or owner financing, this is usually done in situations where the buyer cannot qualify for a mortgage through traditional lending channels. A purchase-money mortgage can be used in situations where the buyer is assuming the seller's mortgage, and the difference between the balance on the assumed mortgage and the sales price of the property is made up of seller financing.


   The Basics of a Purchase-Money Mortgage  

A purchase-money mortgage is unlike a traditional mortgage. Rather than obtaining a mortgage through a bank, the buyer provides the seller with a down payment and gives a financing instrument as evidence of the loan. The security instrument is typically recorded in public records, protecting both parties from future disputes.



Whether the property has an existing mortgage is relevant only if the lender accelerates the loan upon sale due to an alienation clause. If the seller has a clear title, the buyer and seller agree on an interest rate, monthly payment, and loan term. The buyer pays the seller for the seller’s equity on an installment basis.


   Types of Purchase-Money Mortgages  

Land contracts do not pass legal title to the buyer but give the buyer equitable title. The buyer makes payments to the seller for a set time period. After the final payment or a refinance, the buyer receives the deed.



A lease-purchase agreement means the seller gives the buyer equitable title and leases the property to the buyer. After fulfilling the lease-purchase agreement, the buyer receives the title and credit for part or all of the rental payments toward the purchase price and then typically obtains a loan for paying the seller.


   Purchase-Money Mortgage Benefits for Buyers  

Even if the seller requests a credit report on the buyer, the seller’s criteria for the buyer’s qualifications are typically more flexible than those of conventional lenders. Buyers may choose from payment options such as interest-only, fixed-rate amortization, less-than-interest or a balloon payment. Payments may mix or match, and interest rates may periodically adjust or remain constant, depending on a borrower’s needs and seller’s discretion.



Down payments are negotiable. If a seller requests a larger down payment than the buyer possesses, the seller may let the buyer make periodic lump-sum payments toward a down payment. Closing costs are lower as well. Without an institutional lender, there are no loan or discount points or fees for origination, processing, administration or other categories lenders routinely charge. Also, because buyers are not waiting on lenders for financing, buyers may close faster and receive possession earlier than with a conventional loan.


   Purchase-Money Mortgage Benefits for Sellers  

The seller may receive full list price or higher for a home when providing a purchase-money mortgage. The seller may also pay less in taxes on an installment sale. Payments from the buyer may increase the seller’s monthly cash flow, providing spendable income. Sellers may also carry a higher interest rate than in a money market account or other low-risk investments.
What Is the Purchase Price?  

The purchase price is the price an investor pays for an investment, and the price becomes the investor’s cost basis for calculating gain or loss when selling the investment. The purchase price includes any commission or sales charges paid for the investment, and the weighted average cost is used for multiple purchases of the same security.


   Understanding Purchase Price  

Assume, for example, an investor buys 100 shares of Ford common stock on three different dates over a five-year period, including 100 shares purchased at a market price of $40, $60 and $80 per share. To determine the cost basis of the purchases, the investor needs to calculate the weighted average cost, which is the total dollar amount of the purchases divided by the number of shares purchased.



At 100 shares each, the dollar amounts of Ford stock purchases are $4,000, $6,000, and $8,000, or a total of $18,000, and the purchase total is divided by 300 shares to equal $60 per share. If the investor adds to the stock position, they can calculate a new weighted average price by adding the dollar amount of the new purchases and the additional shares to the calculation.



The formula can also be adjusted for stock sales if the investor only sells a portion of the holdings. With commission costs added, the investor’s weighted average cost might approximate $62 per share.


   The Differences Between Realized and Unrealized Gains  

Investors use the purchase price of an investment to calculate realized gains or losses for tax purposes, and they report that activity on Schedule D of IRS form 1040. An investor reports a realized gain if they sell some or all of their investment holdings. If they sell no securities, the investor has an unrealized gain or loss, which is not reported for tax purposes.



Assume, for example, an investor sells 100 shares of Ford stock at a sale price of $80 per share and uses the weighted average cost of $62 to calculate a realized gain of $18 per share. The investor reports the number of shares, along with the weighted average cost and the sale price per share, on Schedule D. The total realized gain of $1,800 is long term because the investor held the shares for over one year. The $1,800 long-term capital gain is offset by any capital losses, and the net gain is taxable using capital gains tax rates.
What Is Purchasing Power?  

Purchasing power is the value of a currency expressed in terms of the number of goods or services that one unit of money can buy. It can weaken over time due to inflation. That's because rising prices effectively decrease the number of goods or services you can buy. Purchasing power is also known as a currency's buying power.



In investment terms, purchasing or buying power is the dollar amount of credit available to a customer based on the existing marginable securities in the customer's brokerage account.





Key Takeaways

Purchasing power is the amount of goods or services that a unit of currency can buy at a given point in time.Inflation erodes the purchasing power of a currency over time.Central banks adjust interest rates to try to keep prices stable and maintain purchasing power.One U.S. measure of purchasing power is the Consumer Price Index (CPI).Globalization has linked currencies more closely than ever so protecting purchasing power worldwide is crucial.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding Purchasing Power  

Inflation reduces a currency's purchasing power and what that currency can buy. Loss of purchasing power has the effect of an increase in prices. To measure purchasing power in the traditional economic sense, you could compare the price of a good or service against a price index such as the Consumer Price Index (CPI).



One way to think about purchasing power is to imagine that you made the same salary that your grandfather made 40 years ago. Today, you would need a much greater salary to maintain the same quality of living.



By the same token, a homebuyer looking for homes 10 years ago in the $300,000 to $350,000 price range had more and better options to consider than people have now in the same price range.



Purchasing power affects every aspect of economics, from consumers buying goods to investors buying stock to a country’s economic prosperity.



When a currency’s purchasing power decreases due to excessive inflation, serious negative economic consequences can arise. These can include a higher cost of living, higher interest rates that affect the global market, and falling credit ratings. All of these factors can contribute to an economic crisis.


  Purchasing Power and CPI  

Governments institute policies and regulations to protect a currency’s purchasing power and keep an economy healthy. They also monitor economic data to stay on top of changing conditions. For example, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) measures price changes and announces those changes with CPI.



CPI is one of the measures of inflation and purchasing power. It calculates the change in the weighted average of prices of consumer goods and services, and in particular, transportation, food, and medical care, at a given time. CPI can point to changes in the cost of living as well as deflation.



The CPI is just one official measure of purchasing power in the U.S.


  Purchasing Price Parity  

A concept related to purchasing power is purchasing price parity (PPP). PPP is an economic theory that estimates the amount by which an item should be adjusted for parity, given two countries’ exchange rates. PPP can be used to compare countries’ economic activity, income levels, and other relevant data concerning the cost of living, or possible rates of inflation and deflation.



The World Bank's International Comparison Program releases data on purchasing power parities between different countries.


  Purchasing Power Loss or Gain  

Purchasing power loss or gain refers to the decrease or increase in how much consumers can buy with a given amount of money. Consumers lose purchasing power when prices increase. They gain purchasing power when prices decrease.



Causes of purchasing power loss can include government regulations, inflation, and natural and human-made disasters. Causes of purchasing power gain include deflation and technological innovation.



One example of purchasing power gain would be if laptop computers that cost $1,000 two years ago cost $500 today. In the absence of inflation, $1,000 will now buy a laptop plus an additional $500 worth of goods.






The Great Inflation of the 1970s to early 1980s devastated the purchasing power and standard of living of Americans. The rate of inflation skyrocketed to 14%.


   Examples of Purchasing Power  
  Germany After WWI  

Historical examples of severe inflation and hyperinflation (which can destroy a currency’s purchasing power) can show us the various causes and effects of such phenomena. Sometimes, expensive and devastating wars will cause an economic collapse, in particular for the losing country. This happened to Germany after World War I (WWI).



In the aftermath of WWI during the 1920s, Germany experienced extreme economic hardship and almost unprecedented hyperinflation, due in part to the enormous amount of reparations Germany had to pay.



Unable to pay these reparations with the suspect German mark, Germany printed paper notes to buy foreign currencies, resulting in high inflation rates that rendered the German mark valueless with a nonexistent purchasing power.


  The 2008 Financial Crisis  

The effects of the loss of purchasing power in the aftermaths of the 2008 global financial crisis and the European sovereign debt crisis are remembered to this day. Due to increased globalization and the introduction of the euro, currencies are inextricably linked and economic trouble can cross geographic boundaries. As a result, governments worldwide institute policies to control inflation, protect purchasing power, and prevent recessions.



For example, in 2008 the U.S. Federal Reserve kept interest rates near zero and instituted a plan called quantitative easing (QE). Quantitative easing, initially controversial, saw the U.S. Federal Reserve System (Fed) buy government and other market securities to increase the money supply and lower interest rates.



The increase in capital spurred increased lending and created more liquidity. The U.S. stopped its policy of quantitative easing once the economy stabilized.



The European Central Bank (ECB) also pursued quantitative easing to help stop deflation in the eurozone after the European sovereign debt crisis and bolster the euro's purchasing power.



The European Economic and Monetary Union established strict regulations in the eurozone related to accurately reporting sovereign debt, inflation, and other financial data. As a general rule, countries attempt to keep inflation fixed at a rate of 2 percent. Moderate levels of inflation are acceptable. High levels of deflation can lead to economic stagnation.


   Special Considerations  
  Investments That Protect Against Purchasing Power Risk  

Retirees can be particularly aware of purchasing power loss since many of them live off of a fixed amount of money. They must make sure that their investments earn a rate of return equal to or greater than the rate of inflation so that the value of their nest egg does not decrease each year.



Debt securities and investments with fixed rates of returns are the most susceptible to purchasing power risk or inflation. Fixed annuities, certificates of deposit (CDs), and Treasury bonds all fall into this category. For instance, a long-term bond with a low fixed rate of return might fail to increase your investment during periods of inflation.



Some investments or investing strategies can help protect investors against purchasing power risk. For example, Treasury inflation-protected securities (TIPS) adjust to keep up with rising prices. Commodities such as oil and metals may maintain pricing power during periods of inflation.




What's Purchasing Power?
Purchasing power refers to how much you can buy with your money. As prices rise, your money can buy less. As prices drop, your money can buy more.




How Does Inflation Erode Purchasing Power?
Inflation is the gradual rise in the prices of a broad range of products and services. If inflation persists at a high level or gets out-of-control, it can eat away your purchasing power—what you can buy with the money you have. The same product that cost $2 six months ago might now cost $4, due to inflation. This rise in prices in turn can erode people's savings and consequently, their standard of living.




What Is the Consumer Price Index?
The CPI measures the prices of certain consumer goods and services over time to discern changes in prices that indicate inflation. The prices for those goods and services are obtained from American consumers by way of the Consumer Expenditure Survey conducted by the Census Bureau for the Bureau of Labor Statistics (which publishes the CPI).


   The Bottom Line  

Long-time investors know that loss of purchasing power can greatly impact their investments. Rising inflation affects purchasing power by decreasing the number of goods or services you can purchase with your money.



Investors must look for ways to make a return higher than the current rate of inflation. More advanced investors may track international economies for the potential effect on their long-term investments.
What Is a Pure Play?  

A pure play is a company that focuses solely on one type of product or service. Some investors prefer investing in pure plays because they are easier to analyze and give maximum exposure to a particular market segment. 



A pure play can be contrasted with multi-divisional corporations or conglomerates, which instead offer many products and services across various industries.



An investor who wants exposure to U.S. banking stocks, for example, might prefer buying shares of Bank of America (BAC) as compared to Berkshire Hathaway (BRK.B), because the latter is involved not only in banking but also in many other industries and sectors.





Key Takeaways

A pure play refers to an investment in a company that is focused on one specific industry or niche.Some investors like pure plays for their ease of analysis and the exposure they offer to particular sectors.Pure plays can be difficult to identify as many corporations today are involved in several product lines or market segments.


   Understanding Pure Plays  

Pure play companies are popular with certain types of active investors who want to make specific bets on particular products or industry segments. For these investors, buying a company with several diversified business lines forces them to take unnecessary risks in industries in which they do not want to invest.



For analysts, pure plays represent an opportunity to obtain more accurate data for a comparable company analysis or peer analysis. These reports are a vital source of information for investment analysis and the basis for relative valuations.



Relative valuations make use of metrics such as the price-to-book (P/B) ratio, the price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio, the price-to-sales (P/S) ratio, and the price-to-cash flow (P/CF) ratio. Each of these values can help the investment analyst calculate the relative value of a company and to evaluate whether the company is overvalued or undervalued. Pure play companies are helpful inputs into these analyses because they are much more directly comparable with each other. Conglomerates, on the other hand, are not readily comparable because their results reflect numerous industry sectors.






Realistically, the term pure play is always used as an approximation, since corporations today almost always have some amount of cross-industry exposure. This is particularly true when looking at large, publicly traded companies.


   Real-World Example of a Pure Play  

A trader is conducting an analysis of the U.S. banking sector. Specifically, they want to evaluate the relative attractiveness of various U.S. banking stocks, based on PB and PE ratios. A list of the following stocks is compiled for analysis:



BB&T Corporation: PB of 1.28 and PE of 12.98KeyCorp: PB of 1.06 and PE of 10.58SunTrust Banks: PB of 1.16 and PE of 11.88Citizens Financial Group: PB of 0.75 and PE of 9.59



Although every business is complex and unique, this analysis reveals that these four banking stocks are relatively comparable to one another; since regional banking is a core focus of their business models, this is to be expected. As such, they may be viewed as "pure plays" for the banking sector.



By contrast, this same trader was tempted to include Berkshire Hathaway in the list due to its significant role in the financial sector. However, this was decided against because of Berkshire's numerous non-banking activities that made it too difficult to compare directly with the banking pure plays.






Due to their dependence on one sector of the economy, one product, or one investing strategy, pure plays are often accompanied by higher specific risk. This can be mitigated through diversification.
What Is Pure Risk?  

Pure risk is a category of risk that cannot be controlled and has two outcomes: complete loss or no loss at all. There are no opportunities for gain or profit when pure risk is involved.



Pure risk is generally prevalent in situations such as natural disasters, fires, or death. These situations cannot be predicted and are beyond anyone's control. Pure risk is also referred to as absolute risk.





Key Takeaways

Pure risk cannot be controlled and has two outcomes: complete loss or no loss at all. There are no opportunities for gain or profit when pure risk is involved. Pure risks can be divided into three different categories: personal, property, and liability.Many cases of pure risk are insurable.


   Understanding Pure Risk  

There are no measurable benefits when it comes to pure risk. Instead, there are two possibilities. On the one hand, there is a chance that nothing will happen or no loss at all. On the other, there may be the likelihood of total loss.



Pure risks can be divided into three different categories: personal, property, and liability. There are four ways to mitigate pure risk: reduction, avoidance, acceptance, and transference. The most common method of dealing with pure risk is to transfer it to an insurance company by purchasing an insurance policy.



Many instances of pure risk are insurable. For example, an insurance company insures a policyholder's automobile against theft. If the car is stolen, the insurance company has to bear a loss. However, if it isn't stolen, the company doesn't make any gain. Pure risk stands in direct contrast to speculative risk, which investors make a conscious choice to participate in and can result in a loss or gain.






Pure risks can be insured because insurers are able to predict what their losses may be.


   Types of Pure Risk  

Personal risks directly affect an individual and may involve the loss of earnings and assets or an increase in expenses. For example, unemployment may create financial burdens from the loss of income and employment benefits. Identity theft may result in damaged credit, and poor health may result in substantial medical bills, as well as the loss of earning power and the depletion of savings.



Property risks involve property damaged due to uncontrollable forces such as fire, lightning, hurricanes, tornados, or hail.



Liability risks may involve litigation due to real or perceived injustice. For example, a person injured after slipping on someone else's icy driveway may sue for medical expenses, lost income, and other associated damages.


  Insuring Against Pure Risk  

Unlike most speculative risks, pure risks are typically insurable through commercial, personal, or liability insurance policies. Individuals transfer part of a pure risk to an insurer. For example, homeowners purchase home insurance to protect against perils that cause damage or loss. The insurer now shares the potential risk with the homeowner.



Pure risks are insurable partly because the law of large numbers applies more readily than to speculative risks. Insurers are more capable of predicting loss figures in advance and will not extend themselves into a market if they see it as unprofitable.


  Speculative Risk  

Unlike pure risk, speculative risk has opportunities for loss or gain and requires the consideration of all potential risks before choosing an action. For example, investors purchase securities believing they will increase in value.



But the opportunity for loss is always present. Businesses venture into new markets, purchase new equipment, and diversify existing product lines because they recognize the potential gain surpasses the potential loss.
What Is Pushdown Accounting?  

Pushdown accounting is a bookkeeping method used by companies to record the purchase of another company. The acquirer’s accounting basis is used to prepare the financial statements of the purchased entity. In the process, the assets and liabilities of the target company are updated to reflect the purchase cost rather than the historical cost.



This method of accounting is an option under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) but is not accepted under the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) accounting standards.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

Pushdown accounting is a method of accounting for the purchase of another company at the purchase price rather than its historical cost.The target company’s assets and liabilities are written up (or down) to reflect the purchase price.Any gains and losses associated with the new book value are “pushed down” from the acquirer’s to the acquired company’s income statement and balance sheet.


   How Pushdown Accounting Works  

When a company buys another company, accountants must record the transaction in detail, including the value of the assets and liabilities of the company that have been purchased. In pushdown accounting, the target company’s assets and liabilities are written up (or down) to reflect the purchase price.



According to the U.S. Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the total amount that is paid to purchase the target becomes the target’s new book value on its financial statements.



Any gains and losses associated with the new book value are “pushed down” from the acquirer’s to the acquired company’s income statement and balance sheet. If the purchase price exceeds fair value, the excess is recognized as goodwill, which is an intangible asset.﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿



In pushdown accounting, the costs incurred to acquire a company appear on the separate financial statements of the target, rather than the acquirer.



It can be helpful to think of pushdown accounting as a new company that is created using borrowed money. Both the debt and the assets acquired are recorded as part of the new subsidiary.


   Example of Pushdown Accounting  

Say Company ABC decides to purchase its rival, Company XYZ, which is valued at $9 million.



ABC is purchasing the company for $12 million, which translates to a premium. To finance its acquisition, ABC gives XYZ’s shareholders $8 million worth of ABC shares and a $4 million cash payment, which it raises through a debt offering.



Even though it is ABC that borrows the money, the debt is recognized on XYZ’s balance sheet under the liabilities account. In addition, the interest paid on the debt is recorded as an expense to the acquired company's balance sheet.



In this case, XYZ’s net assets, that is assets minus liabilities, must equal $12 million, and goodwill will be recognized as $12 million - $9 million = $3 million.






Under revised guidance in effect since late 2014, FASB has eliminated the percentage ownership rule. This means companies have the option to use pushdown accounting regardless of the size of their ownership stake.


   Pushdown Accounting Requirements  

Pushdown accounting was formerly mandatory when the parent acquired at least 95% ownership of another company. If the stake ranged between 80% to 95%, pushdown accounting was an option. If the stake was smaller, it was not permitted.



This has changed. Under new guidance in effect since late 2014, FASB has eliminated the percentage ownership rule. This means companies have the option to use pushdown accounting regardless of the size of their ownership stake.﻿﻿



The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) changed its own rules to match the FASB guidance, meaning public companies as well as private companies have the option, but not the requirement, to use pushdown accounting regardless of the ownership stake of the company purchased.﻿﻿


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Pushdown Accounting  

From a managerial perspective, keeping the debt on the subsidiary's books helps in judging the profitability of the acquisition.



From a tax and reporting perspective, the advantages or disadvantages of pushdown accounting will depend on the details of the acquisition as well as the jurisdictions involved.
What Is a Put?  

A put is an options contract that gives the owner the right, but not the obligation, to sell a certain amount of the underlying asset, at a set price within a specific time. The buyer of a put option believes that the underlying stock will drop below the exercise price before the expiration date. The exercise price is the price that the underlying asset must reach for the put option contract to hold value.



A put can be contrasted with a call option, which gives the holder to buy the underlying at a specified price on or before expiration.





Key Takeaways

A put gives the owner the right, but not the obligation, to sell the underlying stock at a set price within a specified time.A put option's value goes up as the underlying stock price depreciates; the put option's value goes down as the underlying stock appreciates.When an investor purchases a put, she expects the underlying stock to decline in price.


   The Basics of Put Options  

Puts are traded on various underlying assets, which can include stocks, currencies, commodities, and indexes. The buyer of a put option may sell, or exercise, the underlying asset at a specified strike price.



Put options are traded on various underlying assets, including stocks, currencies, bonds, commodities, futures, and indexes. They are key to understanding when choosing whether to perform a straddle or a strangle.



The value of a put option appreciates as the price of the underlying stock depreciates relative to the strike price. On the flip side, the value of a put option decreases as the underlying stock increases. A put option's value also decreases as its expiration date approaches. Conversely, a put option loses its value as the underlying stock increases.



Because put options, when exercised, provide a short position in the underlying asset, they are used for hedging purposes or to speculate on downside price action. Investors often use put options in a risk-management strategy known as a protective put. This strategy is used as a form of investment insurance to ensure that losses in the underlying asset do not exceed a certain amount, namely the strike price.



In general, the value of a put option decreases as its time to expiration approaches due to time decay because the probability of the stock falling below the specified strike price decreases. When an option loses its time value, the intrinsic value is left over, which is equivalent to the difference between the strike price less the underlying stock price. If an option has intrinsic value, it is in the money (ITM).



Out of the money (OTM) and at the money (ATM) put options have no intrinsic value because there would be no benefit of exercising the option. Investors could short sell the stock at the current higher market price, rather than exercising an out of the money put option at an undesirable strike price.



The possible payoff for a holder of a put is illustrated in the following diagram:












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019


   Puts vs. Calls  

Derivatives are financial instruments that derive value from price movements in their underlying assets, which can be a commodity such as gold or stock. Derivatives are largely used as insurance products to hedge against the risk that a particular event may occur. The two main types of derivatives used for stocks are put and call options.



A call option gives the holder the right, but not the obligation, to buy a stock at a certain price in the future. When an investor buys a call, she expects the value of the underlying asset to go up.



A put option gives the holder the right, but not the obligation, to sell a stock at a certain price in the future. When an investor purchases a put, she expects the underlying asset to decline in price; she may sell the option and gain a profit. An investor can also write a put option for another investor to buy, in which case, she would not expect the stock's price to drop below the exercise price.






   Example—How Does a Put Option Work?  

An investor purchases one put option contract on ABC company for $100. Each option contract covers 100 shares. The exercise price of the shares is $10, and the current ABC share price is $12. This put option contract has given the investor the right, but not the obligation, to sell 100 shares of ABC at $10.



If ABC shares drop to $8, the investor's put option is in the money (ITM)—which means that the strike price is below the market price of the underlying asset—and she can close her option position by selling the contract on the open market.



On the other hand, she can purchase 100 shares of ABC at the existing market price of $8, and then exercise her contract to sell the shares for $10. Disregarding commissions, the profit for this position is $200, or 100 x ($10 - $8). Remember that the investor paid a $100 premium for the put option, giving her the right to sell her shares at the exercise price. Factoring in this initial cost, her total profit is $200 - $100 = $100.



As another way of working a put option as a hedge, if the investor in the previous example already owns 100 shares of ABC company, that position would be called a married put and could serve as a hedge against a decline in the share price.
What Is Put-Call Parity?  

The term "put-call" parity refers to a principle that defines the relationship between the price of European put and call options of the same class. Put simply, this concept highlights the consistencies of these same classes. Put and call options must have the same underlying asset, strike price, and expiration date in order to be in the same class. The put-call parity, which only applies to European options, can be determined by a set equation.





Key Takeaways

Put-call parity shows the relationship that has to exist between European put and call options that have the same underlying asset, expiration, and strike prices.This concept says the price of a call option implies a certain fair price for the corresponding put option with the same strike price and expiration and vice versa. Put-call parity doesn't apply to American options because you can exercise them before the expiry date. If the put-call parity is violated, then arbitrage opportunities arise. You can determine the put-call party by using the formula C + PV(x) = P + S.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   Understanding Put-Call Parity  

As noted above, the put-call parity is a concept that applies to European options. These options are of the same class, meaning they have the underlying asset, strike price, and expiration date. As such, the principle doesn't apply to American options, which can be exercised at any time before the expiration date.



Put-call parity states that simultaneously holding a short European put and long European call of the same class will deliver the same return as holding one forward contract on the same underlying asset, with the same expiration, and a forward price equal to the option's strike price.



If the prices of the put and call options diverge so that this relationship does not hold, an arbitrage opportunity exists. This means that sophisticated traders can theoretically earn a risk-free profit. Such opportunities are uncommon and short-lived in liquid markets.



The equation that expresses put-call parity is:


















C


+


P


V


(


x


)


=


P


+


S
















where:
















C


=


Price of the European call option
















P


V


(


x


)


=


Present value of the strike price (x),
















discounted from the value on the expiration
















date at the risk-free rate
















P


=


Price of the European put
















S


=


Spot price or the current market value
















of the underlying asset







\begin{aligned}&C + PV(x) = P + S \\&\textbf{where:} \\&C = \text{Price of the European call option} \\&PV(x) = \text{Present value of the strike price (x),} \\&\text{discounted from the value on the expiration} \\&\text{date at the risk-free rate} \\ &P = \text{Price of the European put} \\&S = \text{Spot price or the current market value} \\&\text{of the underlying asset} \\\end{aligned}


​C+PV(x)=P+Swhere:C=Price of the European call optionPV(x)=Present value of the strike price (x),discounted from the value on the expirationdate at the risk-free rateP=Price of the European putS=Spot price or the current market valueof the underlying asset​






The put-call parity concept was introduced by economist Hans R. Stoll in his December 1969 paper "The Relationship Between Put and Call Option Prices," which was published in The Journal of Finance. 






   Special Considerations  

When one side of the put-call parity equation is greater than the other, this represents an arbitrage opportunity. You can sell the more expensive side of the equation and buy the cheaper side to make, for all intents and purposes, a risk-free profit.



In practice, this means selling a put, shorting the stock, buying a call, and buying the risk-free asset (TIPS, for example). In reality, opportunities for arbitrage are short-lived and difficult to find. In addition, the margins they offer may be so thin that an enormous amount of capital is required to take advantage of them.


  Put-Call Parity and Arbitrage  

In the two graphs above, the y-axis represents the value of the portfolio, not the profit or loss, because we assume that traders give options away. But they don't and the prices of European put and call options are ultimately governed by put-call parity. In a theoretical, perfectly efficient market, the prices for European put and call options would be governed by the equation that we noted above:















C


+


P


V


(


x


)


=


P


+


S







\begin{aligned}&C + PV(x) = P + S \\\end{aligned}


​C+PV(x)=P+S​
Let's say that the risk-free rate is 4% and that TCKR stock trades at $10. Let's continue to ignore transaction fees and assume that TCKR does not pay a dividend. For TCKR options expiring in one year with a strike price of $15 we have:















C


+


(


15


÷


1.04


)


=


P


+


10
















4.42


=


P


−


C







\begin{aligned}&C + ( 15 \div 1.04 ) = P + 10 \\&4.42 = P - C \\\end{aligned}


​C+(15÷1.04)=P+104.42=P−C​
In this hypothetical market, TCKR puts should trade at a $4.42 premium to their corresponding calls. With TCKR trading at just 67% of the strike price, the bullish call seems to have the longer odds, which makes intuitive sense. Let's say this is not the case, though, for whatever reason, the puts are trading at $12, the calls at $7.
Say that you purchase a European call option for TCKR stock. The expiration date is one year from now, the strike price is $15, and purchasing the call costs you $5. This contract gives you the right but not the obligation to purchase TCKR stock on the expiration date for $15, whatever the market price might be.
If one year from now, TCKR trades at $10, you will not exercise the option. If, on the other hand, TCKR is trading at $20 per share, you will exercise the option, buy TCKR at $15 and break-even, since you paid $5 for the option initially. Any amount TCKR rises above $20 is pure profit, assuming zero transaction fees. 















7


+


14.42


<


12


+


10
















21.42


 fiduciary call


<


22


 protected put







\begin{aligned}&7 + 14.42 < 12 + 10 \\&21.42 \ \text{fiduciary call} < 22 \ \text{protected put} \\\end{aligned}


​7+14.42<12+1021.42 fiduciary call<22 protected put​












Investopedia / Sabrina Jiang


  Protective Put  

Another way to imagine put-call parity is to compare the performance of a protective put and a fiduciary call of the same class. A protective put is a long stock position combined with a long put, which acts to limit the downside of holding the stock.












Investopedia / Sabrina Jiang


  Fiduciary Call  

A fiduciary call is a long call combined with cash equal to the present value (adjusted for the discount rate) of the strike price; this ensures that the investor has enough cash to exercise the option on the expiration date. Before, we said that TCKR puts and calls with a strike price of $15 expiring in one year both traded at $5, but let's assume for a second that they trade for free.












Investopedia / Sabrina Jiang


   Put-Call Parity Example  

Say you also sell (or "write" or "short") a European put option for TCKR stock. The expiration date, strike price, and cost of the option are the same. You receive $5 from writing the option, and it is not up to you whether or not to exercise the option since you don't own it. The buyer purchases the right, but not the obligation, to sell you TCKR stock at the strike price. This means you are obligated to take that deal, whatever TCKR's market share price.



So if TCKR trades at $10 a year from now, the buyer sells you the stock at $15. You both break even—you already made $5 from selling the put, making up your shortfall, while the buyer already spent $5 to buy it, eating up their gain. If TCKR trades at $15 or above, you make $5 and only $5, since the other party doesn't exercise the option. If TCKR trades below $10, you lose money—up to $10, if TCKR goes to zero.



The profit or loss on these positions for different TCKR stock prices is highlighted in the graph directly above this section. Notice that if you add the profit or loss on the long call to that of the short put, you make or lose exactly what you would have if you had simply signed a forward contract for TCKR stock at $15, expiring in one year. If shares go for less than $15, you lose money. If they go for more, you gain. Again, this scenario ignores all transaction fees.



Another way to imagine put-call parity is to compare the performance of a protective put and a fiduciary call of the same class. A protective put is a long stock position combined with a long put, which acts to limit the downside of holding the stock.



A fiduciary call is a long call combined with cash equal to the present value (adjusted for the discount rate) of the strike price; this ensures that the investor has enough cash to exercise the option on the expiration date. Before, we said that TCKR puts and calls with a strike price of $15 expiring in one year both traded at $5, but let's assume for a second that they trade for free.




Why Is Put-Call Parity Important?
Put-call parity allows you to calculate the approximate value of a put or a call relative to its other components. If the put-call parity is violated, meaning that the prices of the put and call options diverge so that this relationship does not hold, an arbitrage opportunity exists. Although such opportunities are uncommon and short-lived in liquid markets, sophisticated traders can theoretically earn a risk-free profit. Furthermore, it offers the flexibility to create synthetic positions.




What's the Formula for Put-Call Parity?
Put-call parity states that the simultaneous purchase and sale of a European call and put option of the same class (same underlying asset, strike price, and expiration date) is identical to buying the underlying asset right now. The inverse of this relationship would also be true.Call Option Price + PV(x) = Put Option Price + Current Price of Underlying Asset-or-Current Price of Underlying Asset = Call Option Price - Put Option Price + PV(x)where: PV(x) = the present value of the strike price (x), discounted from the value on the expiration date at the risk-free rate




How Are Options Priced?
An option's price is the sum of its intrinsic value, which is the difference between the current price of the underlying asset and the option's strike price, and time value, which is directly related to the time left until that option's expiry.Nowadays, an option's price is determined by using mathematical models, like the well-known Black-Scholes-Merton (BSM). After inputting the strike price of an option, the current price of the underlying instrument, time to expiration, risk-free rate, and volatility, this model will spit out the option's fair market value.
What Is a Put-Call Ratio?  

The put-call ratio is a measurement that is widely used by investors to gauge the overall mood of a market.



A "put" or put option is a right to sell an asset at a predetermined price. A "call" or call option is a right to buy an asset at a predetermined price.



If traders are buying more puts than calls, it signals a rise in bearish sentiment. If they are buying more calls than puts, it suggests that they see a bull market ahead.





Key Takeaways

A put option gets the trader the right to sell an asset at a preset price.A call option is a right to buy an asset at a preset price.Traders buying more puts than calls indicates a bearish market.If they are buying more calls than puts, watch out for a bull market ahead.






   Understanding the Put-Call Ratio  

The put-call ratio is calculated by dividing the number of traded put options by the number of traded call options. 



A put-call ratio of 1 indicates that the number of buyers of calls is the same as the number of buyers for puts. However, a ratio of 1 is not an accurate starting point to measure sentiment in the market because there are normally more investors buying calls than buying puts. So, an average put-call ratio of 0.7 for equities is considered a good basis for evaluating sentiment.



In general:



A rising put-call ratio, or a ratio greater than 0.7 or exceeding 1, means that equity traders are buying more puts than calls. It suggests that bearish sentiment is building in the market. Investors are either speculating that the market will move lower or are hedging their portfolios in case there is a sell-off.
A falling put-call ratio, or below 0.7 and approaching 0.5, is considered a bullish indicator. It means more calls are being bought versus puts.






The put-call ratio can be an indicator of how the market views recent events or earnings. A ratio at either extreme suggests an overly bearish or overly bullish sentiment.



The data used to calculate put-call ratios are available through various sources, but most traders use the information found on the Cboe Options Exchange website.


   Special Considerations  

The put-call ratio helps investors gauge market sentiment before the market turns. However, it's important to look at the demand for both the numerator (the puts) and the denominator (the calls). 



The number of call options is found in the denominator of the ratio. That means a reduction in the number of traded calls will increase the value of the ratio. This is significant because fewer calls being bought can push the ratio higher without an increased number of puts being purchased. In other words, we don't need to see a large number of puts being purchased for the ratio to rise.



As bullish traders sit on the sidelines, the result by default is that there are more bearish traders in the market. It doesn't necessarily mean the market is bearish, but rather that bullish traders are in a wait-and-see mode until an upcoming event occurs like an election, a Fed meeting, or a release of economic data. 





0.7

The average put-call ratio for equities that is considered a good basis for evaluating sentiment.



It's helpful to watch the put-call ratio to see how the market views recent events or earnings. When the ratio is at extreme levels, it might indicate an overly bearish or an overly bullish sentiment.



For this reason, some investors use the put-call ratio as a contrarian indicator. 


  A Contrarian Indicator  

Contrarian investors use the put-call ratio to help them determine when market participants are getting overly bullish or too bearish.



An extremely high put-call ratio means the market is extremely bearish. To a contrarian, that can be a bullish signal that indicates the market is unduly bearish and is due for a turnaround. A high ratio can be a sign of a buying opportunity to a contrarian. 



An extremely low ratio means the market is extremely bullish. A contrarian might conclude that the market is too bullish and is due for a pullback.



No single ratio can definitively indicate that the market is at its top or its bottom. Even the levels of the put-call ratio that are considered extreme are not set in stone and vary over the years.



Typically, investors compare current ratio levels to the average over some period of time to gauge if sentiment has changed recently. If the put-call ratio has fluctuated in a tight range and suddenly bumps higher, traders might see this as a sudden increase in bearish sentiment and make their moves accordingly.
What Is a Put Option?  

A put option (or “put”) is a contract giving the option buyer the right, but not the obligation, to sell—or sell short—a specified amount of an underlying security at a predetermined price within a specified time frame. This predetermined price at which the buyer of the put option can sell the underlying security is called the strike price.



Put options are traded on various underlying assets, including stocks, currencies, bonds, commodities, futures, and indexes. A put option can be contrasted with a call option, which gives the holder the right to buy the underlying security at a specified price, either on or before the expiration date of the option contract.





Key Takeaways

Put options give holders of the option the right, but not the obligation, to sell a specified amount of an underlying security at a specified price within a specified time frame.Put options are available on a wide range of assets, including stocks, indexes, commodities, and currencies.Put option prices are impacted by changes in the price of the underlying asset, the option strike price, time decay, interest rates, and volatility.Put options increase in value as the underlying asset falls in price, as volatility of the underlying asset price increases, and as interest rates decline.Put options lose value as the underlying asset increases in price, as volatility of the underlying asset price decreases, as interest rates rise, and as the time to expiration nears.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   How a Put Option Works  

A put option becomes more valuable as the price of the underlying stock or security decreases. Conversely, a put option loses its value as the price of the underlying stock increases. As a result, they are typically used for hedging purposes or to speculate on downside price action.



Investors often use put options in a risk management strategy known as a protective put, which is used as a form of investment insurance or hedge to ensure that losses in the underlying asset do not exceed a certain amount. In this strategy, the investor buys a put option to hedge downside risk in a stock held in the portfolio. If and when the option is exercised, the investor would sell the stock at the put’s strike price. If the investor does not hold the underlying stock and exercises a put option, this would create a short position in the stock.


  Factors That Affect a Put’s Price  

In general, the value of a put option decreases as its time to expiration approaches because of the impact of time decay. Time decay accelerates as an option’s time to expiration draws closer since there’s less time to realize a profit from the trade. When an option loses its time value, the intrinsic value is left over. An option’s intrinsic value is equivalent to the difference between the strike price and the underlying stock price. If an option has intrinsic value, it is referred to as in the money (ITM).





Option Intrinsic Value

Option Intrinsic Value = Difference between Market Price of Underlying Security and Option Strike Price (For Put Option, IV = Strike Price minus Market Price of Underlying Security; for Call Option, IV = Market Price of Underlying Security minus Strike Price)



Out of the money (OTM) and at the money (ATM) put options have no intrinsic value because there is no benefit in exercising the option. Investors have the option of short-selling the stock at the current higher market price, rather than exercising an out-of-the-money put option at an undesirable strike price. However, outside of a bear market, short selling is typically riskier than buying put options.



Time value, or extrinsic value, is reflected in the premium of the option. If the strike price of a put option is $20, and the underlying is stock is currently trading at $19, there is $1 of intrinsic value in the option. But the put option may trade for $1.35. The extra $0.35 is time value, since the underlying stock price could change before the option expires. Different put options on the same underlying asset may be combined to form put spreads.



There are several factors to keep in mind when it comes to selling put options. It’s important to understand an option contract’s value and profitability when considering a trade, or else you risk the stock falling past the point of profitability.



The payoff of a put option at expiration is depicted in the image below:












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020






   Where to Trade Options  

Put options, as well as many other types of options, are traded through brokerages. Some brokers have specialized features and benefits for options traders. For those who have an interest in options trading, there are many brokers that specialize in options trading. It’s important to identify a broker that is a good match for your investment needs.


   Alternatives to Exercising a Put Option  

The buyer of a put option does not need to hold an option until expiration. As the underlying stock price moves, the premium of the option will change to reflect the recent underlying price movements. The option buyer can sell their option and either minimize loss or realize a profit, depending on how the price of the option has changed since they bought it.



Similarly, the option writer can do the same thing. If the underlying price is above the strike price, they may do nothing. This is because the option may expire at no value, and this allows them to keep the whole premium. But if the underlying price is approaching or dropping below the strike price, then to avoid a big loss, the option writer may simply buy the option back (which gets them out of the position). The profit or loss is the difference between the premium collected and the premium paid to get out of the position.


   Example of a Put Option  

Assume an investor buys one put option on the SPDR S&P 500 ETF (SPY), which was trading at $445 (January 2022), with a strike price of $425 expiring in one month. For this option, they paid a premium of $2.80, or $280 ($2.80 × 100 shares or units).



If units of SPY fall to $415 prior to expiration, the $425 put will be “in the money” and will trade at a minimum of $10, which is the put option’s intrinsic value (i.e., $425 - $415). The exact price for the put would depend on a number of factors, the most important of which is the time remaining to expiration. Assume that the $425 put is trading at $10.50.



Since the put option is now “in the money,” the investor has to decide whether to (a) exercise the option, which would confer the right to sell 100 shares of SPY at the strike price of $425; or (b) sell the put option and pocket the profit. We consider two cases: (i) the investor already holds 100 units of SPY; and (ii) the investor does not hold any SPY units. (The calculations below ignore commission costs, to keep things simple).



Let’s say the investor exercises the put option. If the investor already holds 100 units of SPY (assume they were purchased at $400) in their portfolio and the put was bought to hedge downside risk (i.e., it was a protective put), then the investor’s broker would sell the 100 SPY shares at the strike price of $425.



The net profit on this trade can be calculated as:



[(SPY Sell Price - SPY Purchase Price) - (Put Purchase Price)] × Number of shares or units



Profit = [($425 - $400) - $2.80)] × 100 = $2,220



What if the investor did not own the SPY units, and the put option was purchased purely as a speculative trade? In this case, exercising the put option would result in a short sale of 100 SPY units at the $425 strike price. The investor could then buy back the 100 SPY units at the current market price of $415 to close out the short position.



The net profit on this trade can be calculated as:



[(SPY Short Sell Price - SPY Purchase Price) - (Put Purchase Price)] × Number of shares or units



Profit = [($425 - $415) - $2.80)] × 100 = $720



Exercising the option, (short) selling the shares and then buying them back sounds like a fairly complicated endeavor, not to mention added costs in the form of commissions (since there are multiple transactions) and margin interest (for the short sale). But the investor actually has an easier “option” (for lack of a better word): Simply sell the put option at its current price and make a tidy profit. The profit calculation in this case is:



[Put Sell Price - Put Purchase Price] × Number of shares or units = [10.50 - $2.80] × 100 = $770



There’s a key point to note here. Selling the option, rather than going through the relatively convoluted process of option exercise, actually results in a profit of $770, which is $50 more than the $720 made by exercising the option. Why the difference? Because selling the option enables the time value of $0.50 per share ($0.50 × 100 shares = $50) to be captured as well. Thus, most long option positions that have value prior to expiration are sold rather than exercised.



For a put option buyer, the maximum loss on the option position is limited to the premium paid for the put. The maximum gain on the option position would occur if the underlying stock price fell to zero.





Selling vs. Exercising an Option

The majority of long option positions that have value prior to expiration are closed out by selling rather than exercising, since exercising an option will result in loss of time value, higher transaction costs, and additional margin requirements.


   Writing Put Options  

In the previous section, we discussed put options from the perspective of the buyer, or an investor who has a long put position. We now turn our attention to the other side of the option trade: the put option seller or the put option writer, who has a short put position.



Contrary to a long put option, a short or written put option obligates an investor to take delivery, or purchase shares, of the underlying stock at the strike price specified in the option contract.



Assume an investor is bullish on SPY, which is currently trading at $445, and does not believe it will fall below $430 over the next month. The investor could collect a premium of $3.45 per share (× 100 shares, or $345) by writing one put option on SPY with a strike price of $430.



If SPY stays above the $430 strike price over the next month, the investor would keep the premium collected ($345) since the options would expire out of the money and be worthless. This is the maximum profit on the trade: $345, or the premium collected.



Conversely, if SPY moves below $430 before option expiration in one month, the investor is on the hook for purchasing 100 shares at $430, even if SPY falls to $400, or $350, or even lower. No matter how far the stock falls, the put option writer is liable for purchasing the shares at the strike price of $430, meaning they face a theoretical risk of $430 per share, or $43,000 per contract ($430 × 100 shares) if the underlying stock falls to zero.



For a put writer, the maximum gain is limited to the premium collected, while the maximum loss would occur if the underlying stock price fell to zero. The gain/loss profiles for the put buyer and put writer are thus diametrically opposite.




Is Buying a Put Similar to Short Selling?
Buying puts and short selling are both bearish strategies, but there are some important differences between the two. A put buyer’s maximum loss is limited to the premium paid for the put, while buying puts does not require a margin account and can be done with limited amounts of capital. Short selling, on the other hand, has theoretically unlimited risk and is significantly more expensive because of costs such as stock borrowing charges and margin interest (short selling generally needs a margin account). Short selling is therefore considered to be much riskier than buying puts.




Should I Buy In the Money (ITM) or Out of the Money (OTM) Puts?
It really depends on factors such as your trading objective, risk appetite, amount of capital, etc. The dollar outlay for in the money (ITM) puts is higher than for out of the money (OTM) puts because they give you the right to sell the underlying security at a higher price. But the lower price for OTM puts is offset by the fact that they also have a lower probability of being profitable by expiration. If you don’t want to spend too much for protective puts and are willing to accept the risk of a modest decline in your portfolio, then OTM puts might be the way to go.




Can I Lose the Entire Amount of the Premium Paid for My Put Option?
Yes, you can lose the entire amount of premium paid for your put, if the price of the underlying security does not trade below the strike price by option expiry.




I’m New to Options and Have Limited Capital; Should I Consider Writing Puts?
Put writing is an advanced option strategy meant for experienced traders and investors; strategies such as writing cash-secured puts also need a significant amount of capital. If you’re new to options and have limited capital, put writing would be a risky endeavor and not a recommended one.


   The Bottom Line  

Put options allow the holder to sell a security at a guaranteed price, even if the market price for that security has fallen lower. That makes them useful for hedging strategies, as well as for speculative traders. Along with call options, puts are among the most basic derivative contracts.
A pyramid scheme is a fraudulent and unsustainable investment pitch that relies on promising unrealistic returns from imaginary investments. The early investors actually get paid those big returns, which leads them to recommend the scheme to others. Investors' returns are paid out of the new money flowing in. Eventually, no new investors can be found and the pyramid collapses.



In a variation of the pyramid scheme, investors at each level charge initiation fees that are paid by the next layer of investors. A portion of those fees is paid on to those in the top layers of the pyramid. Eventually, no one is left to recruit. The pyramid collapses.



Often called pyramid scams, these operations are illegal in the U.S.





Key Takeaways

A pyramid scheme funnels earnings from all recruited participants on lower levels of an organization to participants on higher levels.It is a felony in the U.S. to recruit participants into pyramid schemes.Pyramid schemes rely on income from recruitment fees and not, as participants may believe, from the sale of actual goods or services with real value.Multi-Level Marketing operations (MLMs) are legitimate business programs in which distributors earn money from the sale of tangible goods and from commissions on their recruited distributors' purchases and sales.Pyramid schemes often masquerade as MLMs but their focus is on fees from recruits, not revenue from product sales.


   How Pyramid Schemes Work  

Pyramid schemes are so named because their compensation structures resemble a pyramid. The scheme starts with a single point on top where the original members exist and becomes progressively wider toward the bottom as people are recruited by every level of recruits.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019



Say that the scheme's founder Mike sits alone at the top of the pyramid. He recruits 10 people with some promise of a big return on their money. They're represented by the level directly below him on the pyramid.



Each of those new, 10 members, or participants, pays Mike a certain fee to take part in the opportunity he's offered them. Then, each of those members is encouraged to recruit 10 more members, for a total of 100 members.



Now each of those 100 new recruits must pay fees to the tier-two recruiters, who must send a percentage of their earnings up to Mike. This recruitment and payment cycle repeats over and over again for as long as possible. As it does, money continues to flow upward to those in the levels above.



The emphasis in pyramid schemes is on recruiting new members. Seldom is the sale of any product or service actually involved, though it may have been implied to attract recruits. There is no identifiable source of income other than that coming from those recruited.



According to the hard-sell pitches made at recruitment events, those bold enough to take the pyramid plunge will receive substantial cash from the recruits below them. However, in practice, the prospective member pools tend to dry up over time. By the time a pyramid scheme invariably shuts down, the top-level operatives may walk away with loads of cash while the majority of lower-level members are left empty-handed.





Note

According to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), investors should be aware of these features of pyramid schemes:

No genuine product or service
Promises of high returns in a short time period 
Easy money or passive income 
No demonstrated revenue from retail sales
Buy-in required
Complex commission structure
Emphasis on recruiting




   Types of Pyramid Schemes  
  Multi-Level Marketing Pyramid Scheme  

Multi-level marketing (MLM) is a legal business program. This business model involves the sale of actual goods or services by distributors or participants in the MLM. Distributors get paid for those products and services of the MLM that they sell. They can also receive income from sales made by distributors that they've recruited and from people those recruits then bring in.



However, some pyramid schemes disguise themselves as MLMs. The Federal Trade Commission warns people to take note of, and avoid, MLM promoters who:



Make extraordinary claims of enormous earning potentialTry to persuade people that recruiting others is where the real money liesPressure people to get involved without learning more about the companyMake it clear that an opportunity will be lost unless people get in immediately



Another warning sign is seeing existing distributors who continue to buy products that they can never sell so that they can qualify for some kind of reward.


  Chain Emails  

Chain emails persuade naive recipients to donate money to everyone listed within an email. After making their donations, the donors are invited to delete the first name on the list and replace it with their own.



They're instructed to forward the email along to their own groups of contacts, in the hope that one or more of them will send cash their way. In theory, recipients will keep collecting donations until their name is deleted from the list.


  Ponzi Schemes  

Ponzi schemes are investment cons that work by robbing Peter to pay Paul. They may not necessarily adopt a pyramid scheme's hierarchical structure but they do promise high returns to existing investors.



Ponzi schemes typically involve a single, initial investment only from investors. Then, those investors wait for the promised return on their money. That is provided by new money from other investors persuaded to take part by the leader of the scheme. Most Ponzi participants end up losing everything when money for this sort of scheme dries up.



Investment advisor Bernard Madoff, arguably the most notorious Ponzi scheme artist, was sentenced to 150 years in prison for operating a multibillion-dollar Ponzi scheme. Madoff convinced many high-profile individuals to invest with him, falsified portfolios and relevant paperwork, and paid off early investors with money received from later investors. Most investors lost everything. Madoff died in prison on April 14, 2021.


   Example of a Pyramid Scheme  

In recent years, the SEC filed charges to stop a pyramid scheme masquerading as an MLM program. The company, which was called CKB, solicited investors all over the world, and in particular, focused on Asian-American communities in New York and California.



The SEC alleged that CKB posed as a very profitable MLM company that made money selling online educational courses for children. Unfortunately, this classic pyramid scheme involved little or no retail sales. Its only source of revenue was the money it procured from new investors.


   How Pyramid Schemes Collapse  

Pyramid schemes are viable as long as new, paying participants continue to buy in. The pyramid base must continue to grow. When the pool of available and willing participants disappears, the entire structure collapses.



It's impossible for pyramid schemes to function for long terms. People will invariably lose their money. Even high-level early participants may lose money near the end, due to waiting periods that delay payments from lower level recruits. 




Is a Pyramid Scheme Illegal in the United States?
Essentially, yes. In the U.S., it is a felony crime to recruit any person to take part in a pyramid scheme. This crime may result in four years in prison and a fine of $5,000.




How Do Pyramid Schemes Succeed?
The success of pyramid schemes is usually limited to founders and early-stage members. These people fraudulently attract new, fee-paying members eager to make a promised quick and large monetary return. These members then recruit more fee-paying members. This cycle continues. The income flows up to the founders and earlier members. The scheme typically collapses once no more fee-paying members can be found to support the existing members with their payments.




Are Pyramid Schemes the Same as Multi-Level Marketing Programs?
No, they are not the same. MLMs are legal, legitimate businesses whose distributors earn money from the sale of actual products and from commissions on products sold by distributors that they recruit. However, sometimes, pyramid schemes pose as MLMs to attract people who are likely to want to work with the MLM model.


   The Bottom Line  

Pyramid schemes are illegal in many countries. The pyramid model of profiting from a network of contacts often forces individuals to recruit their family members, friends, and acquaintances. This ultimately can strain relationships. Investors would be wise to avoid such schemes.
