What Is Nacha?  

Nacha is the steward of the electronic system that connects all U.S. bank accounts and facilitates the movement of money among them. According to the organization, $73 trillion moved through its Automated Clearing House (ACH) Network in 2021.



Previously known as the National Automated Clearinghouse Association, Nacha is a non-profit association that is funded by the financial institutions that use its network. Nacha and the Interactive Financial eXchange (IFX) Forum merged in 2018, an international industry association that develops specifications for financial data systems.





Key Takeaways

Nacha operates one of the major networks that carries electronic financial transactions between banks and payments services providers.It is responsible for the rules and standards that are used to move money between accounts held at various types of financial or payments companies.Nacha is a non-profit association funded by U.S. financial institutions.


   Understanding Nacha  

The ACH network enables billions of electronic financial transactions, including direct deposits, Social Security and government benefits statements, electronic bill payments, person-to-person (P2P), and business-to-business (B2B) payments.






Nacha merged with the Interactive Financial eXchange (IFX) Forum in 2018.﻿﻿



Through its supervisory and rule-making functions, Nacha provides the foundation for electronic payment systems to operate effectively, while working to update technologies and implement new payment systems.


   History of Nacha  

Nacha was created in 1974 with the merger of several regional bodies. It was originally part of the American Bankers Association.



It has been instrumental in the development and standardization of such innovations as direct payroll deposit, electronic benefits deposit, and automated credit card transactions.



More recently, it has taken over the task of enabling the processing of B2B health insurance payments under the 2010 Affordable Care Act. Nacha now administers the Healthcare Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) standard, which supports HIPAA-compliant transactions between health plans and providers that allow for information to travel with the payment, simplifying accounting procedures for providers.


   The ACH Network  

The ACH Network connects all U.S. financial institutions through a ubiquitous payment system that is built to securely and efficiently move money and information from one bank account to another.



Nacha develops rules and codes of business practices and is involved in the development of new applications. It also institutes and monitors quality- and risk-management controls.



Although it is not a government agency, Nacha works closely with various government agencies including the Federal Reserve, U.S. Treasury, and state banking authorities in order to ensure the integrity of the electronic payments systems used by U.S. financial institutions.



In 2014, Nacha formed the Payments Innovation Alliance as a voice for the payments industry and the ACH Network. The Alliance consists of hundreds of companies and organizations across the global payment ecosystem. It offers discussion, debate, education, and networking on such topics as payment system modernization, trends, standards, security, and ongoing innovation.












Image by Catherine Song © The Balance 2020


   Faster Payments  

In November 2019, Nacha unveiled an initiative called the Faster Payments Playbook that aims to allow consumers to "pay anyone, anywhere, at any time with near-immediate funds availability."



Nacha also provides services in education and accreditation; industry engagement with financial institutions, businesses and government; and advocacy resources.



Nacha’s API Standardization Industry Group (ASIG) supports the advancement and use of standardized Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) within the U.S. financial services industry.
What Is a Naked Call?  

A naked call is an options strategy in which an investor writes (sells) call options on the open market without owning the underlying security.



This strategy, sometimes referred to as an uncovered call or an unhedged short call, stands in contrast to a covered call strategy, where the investor owns the underlying security on which the call options are written. A naked call can be compared with a naked put.





Key Takeaways

A naked call is when a call option is sold by itself (uncovered) without any offsetting positions.When call options are sold, the seller benefits as the underlying security goes down in price.A naked call has limited upside profit potential and, in theory, unlimited loss potential.A naked call's breakeven point for the writer is its strike price plus the premium received.


   Understanding Naked Calls  

A naked call gives an investor the ability to generate premium income without directly selling the underlying security. Essentially, the premium received is the sole motive for writing an uncovered call option.



It is inherently risky as there is limited upside profit potential and, in theory, unlimited downside loss potential. In fact, the maximum gain is the premium that the option writer receives upfront, which is usually credited to their account. So, the goal for the writer is to have the option expire worthless.



The maximum loss, however, is theoretically unlimited because there is no cap on how high the price of the underlying security can rise. However, in more practical terms, the seller of the options will likely buy them back well before the price of the underlying rises too far above the strike price, based on their risk tolerance and stop-loss settings.






Margin requirements, understandably, tend to be quite steep given the unlimited risk potential of this strategy.



A seller of call options, therefore, wants the underlying security to fall, so that they can collect the full premium if the option expires worthless. But, if the price of the underlying security instead rises, they may end up having to sell the stock at a price far below the market price because the option buyer may decide to exercise their right to purchase the security—that is, they would be assigned to sell the stock.


   Special Considerations  

The breakeven point for the writer is calculated by adding the option premium received to the strike price of the call that has been sold.



A rise in implied volatility is not desirable to the writer as the probability of the option being in the money (ITM), and thus being exercised, also increases. Since the option writer wants the naked call to expire out of the money (OTM), the passage of time, or time decay, will have a positive impact on this strategy.



As a result of the risk involved, only experienced investors who strongly believe that the price of the underlying security will fall or remain flat should undertake this advanced strategy. The margin requirements are often very high for this strategy due to the propensity for open-ended losses, and the investor may be forced to purchase shares on the open market prior to expiration if margin thresholds are breached.



The upside to the strategy is that the investor could receive income in the form of premiums without putting up a lot of initial capital.


   Using Naked Calls  

Again, there is a significant risk of loss with writing uncovered calls. However, investors who strongly believe the price for the underlying security, usually a stock, will fall or stay the same can write call options to earn the premium. If the stock stays below the strike price between the time the options are written and their expiration date, then the options writer keeps the entire premium minus commissions.



Should, on the other hand, the price of the stock rise above the strike price by the options expiration date, then the buyer of the options can demand the seller to deliver shares of the underlying stock. The options seller will then have to go into the open market and buy those shares at the market price to sell them to the options buyer at the options strike price. 



If, for example, the strike price is $60 and the open market price for the stock is $65 at the time the options contract is exercised, the options seller will incur a loss of $5 per share of stock less the premium received.


  Example  

The premium collected will somewhat offset the loss on the stock but the potential loss can still be very large. For example, let's say an investor thought that the strong bull run for Amazon.com was over when it finally leveled out in March 2017 near $852 per share.



The investor wrote a call option with a strike price of $865 and an expiration in May 2017. However, after a short pause, the stock resumed its rally and by the mid-May expiration, the stock reached $966.



The potential liability was the exercise price of $966 minus the strike price of $865, which resulted in $101 per share. This is offset by whatever premium was collected at the start.
What Is a Naked Option?  

A naked option is created when the option writer (seller) does not currently own any, or enough, of the underlying security to meet their potential obligation.





Key Takeaways

Naked options refer to an option sold without any previously set-aside shares or cash to fulfill the option obligation at expiration.Naked options run the risk of large loss from rapid price change before expiration.Naked call options that are exercised create a short position in the seller's account.Naked put options that are exercised create a long position in the seller's account, purchased with available cash.


   Understanding a Naked Option  

A naked option, also known as an "uncovered" option, is created when the seller of an option contract does not own the underlying security needed to meet the potential obligation that results from selling—also known as "writing" or "shorting"—an option. In other words, the seller has no protection from an adverse shift in price.



Naked options are attractive to traders and investors because they have the expected volatility built into the price. If the underlying security moves in the direction opposite to what the option buyer anticipated, or even moves in the buyer's favor but not enough to account for the volatility already built into the price, then the seller of the option gets to keep any out-of-the-money (OTM) premium. Typically, that has translated to the option seller winning around 70 percent of trades, which can be quite appealing.



Selling an option creates an obligation for the seller to provide the option buyer with the underlying shares or futures contract for a corresponding long position (for a call option) or the cash necessary for a corresponding short position (for a put option) at expiration. In the case of a seller who sold a put option, the ultimate effect would be to create a long stock position in the option sellers account—a position purchased with cash from the option sellers account.



If the seller has no ownership of the underlying asset or the corresponding cash necessary for the execution of a put option, then the seller will need to acquire it at expiration based on current market prices. With no protection from the price volatility, such positions are considered highly vulnerable to loss and thus referred to as uncovered, or more colloquially, naked.


   Naked Calls  

A trader who writes a naked call option on a stock has accepted the obligation to sell the underlying stock for the strike price at or before expiration, no matter how high the share price rises. If the trader does not own the underlying stock, the seller will have to acquire the stock, then sell the stock to the option buyer to satisfy the obligation if the option is exercised. The ultimate effect is that this creates a short-sell position in the option sellers account on the Monday after expiration.



For example, imagine a trader who believes that a stock is unlikely to rise in value over the next three months, but they are not very confident that a potential decline would be very large. Assume that the stock is priced at $100, and a $105 strike call, with an expiration date 90 days in the future, is selling for $4.75 per share. They decide to open a naked call by "selling to open" those calls and collecting the premium. In this case, the trader decides not to purchase the stock because they believe the option is likely to expire worthless and the trader will keep the entire premium. 



There are two possible outcomes for a naked call trade:



The stock rallies prior to expiration: In this scenario, the trader has an option that will be exercised. If we assume that the stock rose to $130 on good earnings news, then the option will be exercised at $105 per share as that exceeds the breakeven point for the option buyer. This means that the trader must acquire the stock at the current market price, and then sell it (or short the stock) at $105 per share to cover their obligation. These circumstances result in a $20.25 per share loss ($105 + $4.75 - $130). There is no upper limit for how high the stock (and the option seller's obligations) can rise.
The stock remains flat or lower than $105 per share at expiration: If the stock is at or below the strike price at expiration, it won't be exercised, and the option seller gets to keep the premium of $4.75 per share that they originally collected. 


   Naked Puts  

As you can see in the preceding outcomes, there is no limit to how high a stock can rise, so a naked call seller has theoretically unlimited risk. With naked puts, on the other hand, the seller's risk is contained because a stock, or other underlying asset, can only drop to zero dollars.



A naked put option seller has accepted the obligation to buy the underlying asset at the strike price if the option is exercised at or before its expiration date. While the risk is contained, it can still be quite large, so brokers typically have specific rules regarding naked option trading. Inexperienced traders, for example, may not be allowed to place this type of order.



Essentially, a seller who sold a put option is liable to have a long stock position if the option buyer exercises.
What Is a Naked Put?  

A naked put is an options strategy in which the investor writes, or sells, put options without holding a short position in the underlying security. A naked put strategy is sometimes referred to as an "uncovered put" or a "short put" and the seller of an uncovered put is known as a naked writer.



The primary use of this strategy is to capture the option's premium on an underlying security forecast as going higher, but one which the trader or investor would not be disappointed to own for at least a month or maybe longer.





Key Takeaways

A naked put is when a put option is sold by itself (uncovered) without any offsetting positions.When put options are sold, the seller benefits as the underlying security goes up in price.A naked put has limited upside profit potential and, in theory, downside loss potential that exists from the current price of the underlying all the way down to if it goes to zero.A naked put's breakeven point for the writer is its strike price, plus the premium received.


   How a Naked Put Works  

A naked put option strategy assumes that the underlying security will fluctuate in value, but generally rise over the next month or so. Based on this assumption, a trader executes the strategy by selling a put option with no corresponding short position in their account. This sold option is said to be uncovered because the initiator has no position with which to fill the terms of the option contract, should a buyer wish to exercise their right to the option.



Since a put option is designed to create profit for a trader who correctly forecasts that the price of the security will fall, the naked put strategy is of no consequence if the price of the security actually goes up. Under this scenario, the value of the put option goes to zero and the seller of the option gets to keep the money they received when they sold the option.



A seller of put options wants the underlying security to rise, so that they end up profiting. But if the price of the underlying security falls, they may end up having to buy the stock because the option buyer might decide to exercise their right to sell someone the security. Traders who like this strategy prefer only to do this on underlying securities that they view favorably. If they get the stock put to them, and it is a stock they like and see prospects for, they will not mind buying the stock and holding it for a least a month.


   Naked Put vs. Covered Put  

A naked put option strategy stands in contrast to a covered put strategy. In a covered put, the investor keeps a short position in the underlying security for the put option. The underlying security and the puts are respectively shorted and sold in equal quantities.



When executed in this manner, a covered put works in virtually the same way as a covered call strategy, with the primary difference being that the individual executing the covered put strategy expects to profit from the mildly declining price of a security, while a covered call trader expects to profit from a mildly rising price. That is because the underlying position for covered puts is a short instead of a long position, and the option sold is a put rather than a call.


   Special Considerations  

A naked put strategy is inherently risky because of the limited upside profit potential and, theoretically, a significant downside loss potential. The maximum profit is only achievable if the underlying price closes merely at or above the strike price at expiration. Further increases in the cost of the underlying security will not result in any additional profit.



The maximum loss, meanwhile, is theoretically significant because the price of the underlying security can fall to zero. The higher the strike price, the higher the loss potential.



However, in more practical terms, the seller of the options will likely repurchase them well before the price of the underlying security falls too far below the strike price, based on their risk tolerance and stop-loss settings.


   Using Naked Puts  

Because of the risk involved, only experienced options investors should write naked puts. The margin requirements are often quite high for this strategy as well, due to the propensity for substantial losses.



Investors who firmly believe the price of the underlying security, usually a stock, will rise or stay the same may write put options to earn the premium. If the stock persists above the strike price between the time of writing the options and their expiration date, then the options writer keeps the entire premium, minus commissions.



When the price of the stock falls below the strike price before or by the expiration date, the buyer of the options vehicle can demand the seller take delivery of shares of the underlying stock. The options seller will then have to go to the open market and sell those shares at the market price loss, even though the options writer had to pay the options strike price. For example, imagine the strike price is $60, and the open market price for the stock is $55 at the time the options contract is exercised. In this case, the options seller will incur a loss of $5 per share of stock.



The premium collected does somewhat offset the loss on the stock, but the potential for loss can still be substantial. The breakeven point for a naked put option is the strike price minus the premium, giving the options seller a little leeway.
What Is Naked Shorting  

Naked shorting is the illegal practice of short-selling shares that have not been affirmatively determined to exist. Ordinarily, traders must borrow a stock or determine that it can be borrowed before they sell it short. So naked shorting refers to short pressure on a stock that may be larger than the tradable shares in the market.



Despite being made illegal after the 2008–09 financial crisis, naked shorting continues to happen because of loopholes in rules and discrepancies between paper and electronic trading systems.





Key Takeaways

Naked shorting is the now-illegal practice of selling short shares that have not been affirmatively determined to exist. Ordinarily, traders must first borrow a stock or determine that it can be borrowed before they sell it short.Due to various loopholes in the rules, and discrepancies between paper and electronic trading systems, naked shorting continues to happen.Although controversial, some believe naked shorting plays an important and positive market role in price discovery.






   Understanding Naked Shorting  

Naked shorting takes place when investors sell shorts associated with shares that they do not possess and have not confirmed their ability to possess. If the trade associated with the short needs to take place in order to fulfill the obligations of the position, then the trade may fail to complete within the required clearing time because the seller does not actually have access to the shares. The technique has a very high risk level but has the potential to yield high rewards.



While no exact system of measurement exists, many systems point to the level of trades that fail to deliver from the seller to the buyer within the mandatory stock settlement period as evidence of naked shorting. Naked shorts are believed to represent a major portion of these failed trades.


   The Impact of Naked Shorting  

Naked shorting can affect the liquidity of a particular security within the marketplace. When a particular share is not readily available, naked short selling allows a person to participate even though they are unable to actually obtain a share. If additional investors become interested in the shares associated with the shorting, this can cause an increase in liquidity associated with the shares as demand within the marketplace increases.






Naked shorting was a focus of regulatory changes in 2008, in part as a reaction to the piling on of shorts on failing financial giants Lehman Brothers and Bear Stearns.



   Regulations Regarding Naked Shorting  

The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) banned the practice of naked short selling in the United States in 2008 after the financial crisis. The ban applies to naked shorting only and not to other short-selling activities. Other countries, like India, also ban naked short selling.



Prior to this ban, the SEC amended Regulation SHO to limit possibilities for naked shorting by removing loopholes that existed for some brokers and dealers in 2007. Regulation SHO requires lists to be published that track stocks with unusually high trends in failing to deliver (FTD) shares.


   Naked Shorting as a Market Function  

Some analysts point to the fact that naked shorting inadvertently might help markets stay in balance by allowing the negative sentiment to be reflected in certain stocks' prices. If a stock has a limited float and a large number of shares in friendly hands, then market signals can theoretically be delayed inevitably. Naked shorting forces a price drop even if shares aren't available, which can, in turn, result in some unloading of the actual shares to cut losses, allowing the market to find the right balance.


   Examples of Naked Shorting  

Per SEC regulations, participants in naked short selling activities can be charged with a crime. In fact, in 2014, two Florida State University professors were charged with using a naked short selling strategy in more than 20 companies to earn more than $400,000 in revenue. In 2018, there was widespread speculation that naked shorting was endemic in the cannabis sector as shares were highly sought after and thus limited, but short interest continued to grow regardless.
What Is a Named Beneficiary?  

A named beneficiary is an individual, decreed by a written legal document, who is entitled to collect assets from a trust, insurance policy, pension plan account, IRA, or any other financial instrument. Multiple named beneficiaries of a single property will share in the proceeds at the time of disposition. In some cases, such as an annuity policy, the policyholder and the named beneficiary may be the same person.






In late December 2019, President Trump signed the Setting Every Community Up for Retirement Enhancement (SECURE) Act. The Act encourages employers to offer annuities as investment options within 401(k) plans.



Beneficiary designations can be complex. For example, by naming a specific beneficiary in a life insurance policy, the proceeds will not be subject to the stipulations of will, nor will they be affected by probate proceedings.





Key Takeaways

A named beneficiary refers to an individual, decreed by a written legal document, who is entitled to collect assets from a trust, insurance policy, pension plan account, or IRA.There are various types of beneficiaries, such as primary beneficiaries who stand first in line to receive benefits.Contingent beneficiaries refer to individuals entitled to receive the benefits of an account if the primary beneficiary refuses the asset, is deceased, or cannot be located.A beneficiary can be an estate, as opposed to a single individual. 


   Understanding Named Beneficiary  

There are several types of beneficiaries:



Primary beneficiary: an individual who is first in line to receive benefits.
Contingent beneficiary: an individual who receives the benefits of an account if the primary beneficiary is deceased, cannot be located, or refuses to accept the assets after the account owner's death. A will generally outlines predetermined conditions that must be met before a contingent beneficiary may receive any insurance proceeds or retirement assets.
Secondary beneficiary: a synonym of "contingent beneficiary."



It is important to note that a named beneficiary does not necessarily have to be an individual. For example, the named beneficiary of an insurance policy can be the estate of the deceased, in which case, the actual beneficiaries will be designated in the will.






A beneficiary differs from an heir. The first is entitled to collect property by decree of a will, while the latter is someone entitled to assets via intestate succession.


   Risks Related to Named Beneficiaries  

It’s essential for grantors to formally name the beneficiary or beneficiaries, in a full estate planning process. Furthermore, many financial advisors recommend reviewing and updating all beneficiary designations every few years, particularly after a major life event such as a divorce or death of a loved one.




What Is the Difference Between a Primary and Secondary Beneficiary?
The primary beneficiary is the first named to receive benefits as stated in a will. If the primary either can't or is unwilling to accepts the assets, the secondary beneficiary, also called the contingent beneficiary, would be next to receive assets.




Who Can Be a Named Beneficiary?
A named beneficiary is often an individual or a group of people, such as a person' acquaintance or family member. But the beneficiary can also be an estate or a non-profit organization, chosen by the account holder's insurance policy.




What Are the Advantages of Having a Named Beneficiary?
Having a named beneficiary guarantees that the deceased person's assets are left to the person or individual of their choosing. It also benefits the beneficiary, as there are tax advantages to being a named beneficiary. Named beneficiaries are also able to skip probate.
What Is a Named Perils Insurance Policy?  

A named perils insurance policy is a home insurance (or business) insurance policy that only provides coverage on losses incurred to your property from hazards or events named on the policy. Named peril coverage may be purchased as a less expensive alternative to a comprehensive coverage or broad policies, which are policies that tend to offer coverage to most perils.


   How a Named Perils Insurance Policy Works  

If a homeowner doesn't live in an earthquake and flooding prone area, they may elect to get a named perils insurance policy and only declare coverage against fire, theft, and hail, while leaving the earthquake and flooding coverage off the policy.





Key Takeaways


A named perils insurance policy only provides coverage on losses incurred to your property from events or risks named on the plan.
Homeowners may purchase a named perils insurance policy and only declare coverage against hazards like theft or fire.
If a homeowner lives in a flood zone, they may elect to get a named perils insurance policy rather than earthquake coverage.
Theft, fire, and natural disasters like hail, earthquakes, and flooding are events or hazards that may be declared on a named perils insurance policy.
When a person purchases an all risks policy, it covers all perils except those expressly excluded from the list.




Keep in mind that all risks policy does not necessarily guarantee your property will be covered against all forms of perils.



It's thus a good idea for homeowners to check their broad coverage policies to make sure they do cover all the perils that they are concerned about. If the broad policy isn't sufficient, homeowners should buy a named peril policy to fill that hole in their coverage.


   Named Perils Insurance vs. All Risks Insurance  

Insurance providers generally offer two types of property coverage for homeowners and businesses—named perils and all risks. "All risks" is a type of insurance coverage that automatically covers any risk that the contract does not explicitly omit.



For example, if an all-risk homeowner's policy does not expressly exclude hurricane damage, then the house will be covered in the event of a hurricane.






A named perils policy contains conditions that cover what the insurer thinks are the most likely perils.


  Perils Insurance  

A named perils insurance contract only covers the perils specifically stipulated in the policy. As an example, an insurance contract might specify that losses caused by fire or vandalism will be covered. Therefore, an insured who experiences a loss or damage caused by a flood cannot file a claim to his or her insurance provider, as a flood is not named as a peril under the insurance coverage. Under a named perils policy, the burden of proof is on the insured.


  All Risks  

By contrast, an all risks policy covers the insured from all perils, except those specifically excluded from the list. Contrary to a named perils contract, an all-risks policy does not name the risks covered, but instead, names the risks not covered. In so doing, any peril not named in the policy is automatically covered.


   Special Considerations  

The most common types of perils excluded from all risks include earthquake, war, government seizure or destruction, wear and tear, infestation, pollution, nuclear hazard, market loss, etc.



An individual or business who requires coverage for any excluded event under all risks may have the option to pay an additional premium, known as a rider or floater, to have the peril included in the contract.
What Is a Nanny Tax?  

A nanny tax is a federal tax paid by people who employ household employees and pay wages over a certain amount. In 2021, for cash wages of $2,300 or more per employee, social security and Medicare taxes must be withheld at a rate of 15.3%, with the employer and employee each paying half (7.65%). If paying cash wages of $1,000 or more per quarter per employee, the employer pays a 6% unemployment tax on annual cash wages up to $7,000.


   Understanding the Nanny Tax  

Household employees are hired persons whose work is controlled by the employer; such employees include babysitters, nannies, butlers, and cooks.﻿﻿ The nanny tax exists because the IRS considers an ongoing household helper as the taxpayer's household employee, rather than an independent contractor. As such, the taxpayer becomes an employer and must pay Social Security, Medicare, and federal and state unemployment taxes on the wages paid to that employee. There may be state-level nanny taxes, as well. The federal and state nanny tax requirements are detailed in IRS Publication 926.﻿﻿



For example, if a taxpayer pays an adult babysitter $50 every weekend, they must pay nanny taxes (52 weekends/year x $50 = $2600). The nanny tax does not apply if the babysitter is the taxpayer's parent or spouse or if the babysitter is under the age of 18 and is not primarily engaged in the household employment profession. Nanny taxes also aren’t applicable if a taxpayer hires household help through an employment agency, in which case the agency is the employer and is responsible for paying the associated tax.﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿



The nanny tax enables a household employee to receive covered employment benefits and protections, such as Social Security, Medicare, and unemployment benefits.﻿﻿ It also provides a household employee with a verifiable income and a legal employment history, which can be important when applying for a credit card, loan, or mortgage. The nanny tax also allows an employer to take advantage of significant tax savings from a Flexible Spending Account and the Child and Dependent Care Credit.﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

A nanny tax is a federally required tax paid by people who employ household employees and pay wages over a certain threshold.The IRS deems an ongoing household helper as a household employee, rather than an independent contractor.The nanny tax qualifies household employees to receive certain benefits and protections, such as Social Security, Medicare, and unemployment benefits.Employers and employees pay an equal share of social security and Medicare taxes (7.65% total) on cash wages.


   Nanny Tax Requirements  

Taxpayers with household employees must file to become an employer and receive an employer identification number for dealing with the IRS and other agencies. Failure to pay employment taxes can result in penalties, and families who misclassify a household employee as an independent contractor can be charged with tax evasion.



In 2021, the withholding amount for Social Security taxes was set at 6.2%, and the rate for Medicare taxes is 1.45%, which amounts to a total of 7.65% withheld from all cash wages. The employee and employer are responsible for paying 7.65% each, but some employers choose to pay the total 15.3% tax.



Those looking for help around the house may be disappointed to discover the complexities of maintaining tax compliance. Fortunately, there are plenty of nanny payroll services that can help automate some or all of the payroll process.
What Is Narrow Money?  

Narrow money is a category of money supply that includes all physical money such as coins and currency,  demand deposits, and other liquid assets held by the central bank.



In the United States, narrow money is classified as M1 (M0 + demand accounts). In the United Kingdom, the narrowest measure of money is notes and coins in circulation.





Key Takeaways

Also known as M0, narrow money refers to physical money, such as coins and currency, demand deposits, and other liquid assets, that are easily accessible to central banks.Narrow money is a subset of broad money that includes long-term deposits and other deposit-based accounts.


   Understanding Narrow Money  

The name is derived from the fact that M1/M0 are the narrowest or most restrictive forms of money that are the basis for the medium of exchange within an economy. This category of money is considered to be the most readily available for transactions and commerce.



The narrow money supply only contains the most liquid financial assets. These funds must be accessible on-demand, which limits the category to physical notes and coins and funds held in the most accessible deposit accounts. According to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), as of December 2020, the United States has the world's largest stock of narrow money, followed by Hungary, Poland, Israel, and New Zealand.



Typically, the availability of liquid money supply—whether long-term or short-term—should have a direct impact on its economic health. However, changes in the economy coupled with changes in the finance industry have translated into an uncoupling of that direct relationship. The Federal Reserve does not implement its policy through changes in money supply. It focuses on interest rates instead. But it does track changes in narrow and broad money to formulate its response to the prevailing state of the economy.


   Qualifying Accounts  

The most accessible accounts, such as savings and checking deposit accounts, qualify as narrow money. The funds in the accounts are seen as accessible on demand even if mechanisms other than physical currency are used for the transaction. This typically includes funds paid using either debit card transactions or a variety of checks.


   Narrow Money and Broad Money  

While M1/M0 are used to describe narrow money, M2/M3/M4 qualify as broad money and M4 represents the largest concept of the money supply. Broad money may include various deposit-based accounts that would take more than 24 hours to reach maturity and be considered accessible. These are often referred to as longer-term time deposits because their activity is restricted by a specific time requirement.


   Narrow Money and the Money Supply  

M1/M0 are only a portion of the money supply. The money supply includes items within all of the categories from M0 to M4. Therefore, it represents both the most liquid and the less liquid cash and deposit-based assets held within a nation. This includes funds in bonds or other securities as well as institutional money market accounts.



For M4, the broadest of the money supply definitions and the general outside limit for an investment to be considered part of the money supply are those scheduled to mature in five years or less. This duration, however, is not a strict definition. As with all levels of the money supply, countries may classify their funds differently. For example, excluding M0 or M4 as measures and considering the money supply as divided into the M1, M2, and M3 categories only.
What Is the Nasdaq?  

Nasdaq is a global electronic marketplace for buying and selling securities. Its name was originally an acronym for the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations. Nasdaq started as a subsidiary of the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD), now known as the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA).



Nasdaq was launched after the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) urged NASD to automate the market for securities not listed on an exchange. The result was the first electronic trading system. Nasdaq opened for business in 1971.





Key Takeaways

Nasdaq is an online global marketplace for buying and trading securities—the world's first electronic exchange.It operates 29 markets, one clearinghouse, and five central securities depositories in the United States and Europe.Most of the world's technology giants are listed on the Nasdaq.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Understanding the Nasdaq  

As noted above, the Nasdaq is a stock exchange headquartered in New York. It began as a subsidiary of the NASD and officially opened for business on Feb. 8, 1971. It was the world's first automated stock exchange.



Nasdaq officially separated from the NASD and began to operate as a national securities exchange in 2006. In 2008, it combined with the Scandinavian exchanges group OMX to become the Nasdaq OMX Group. The company changed its name to Nasdaq Inc. in 2015.



There are more than 5,000 companies that are listed and traded on the exchange on a daily basis. Many of these companies are major technology companies, such as Apple (AAPL) and Microsoft (MSFT). There are two different markets that make up the Nasdaq: the Nasdaq National Market and the Nasdaq Smallcap Market. The National Market facilitates the trading of large securities while the Smallcap Market involves the trading of smaller growth companies.



The exchange operates 29 markets enabling the trading of stocks, derivatives, fixed income, and commodities in the U.S., Canada, Scandinavia, and the Baltics. The company also runs a clearinghouse and five central securities depositories in the United States and Europe. Its trading technology is used by 100 exchanges in 50 countries.






   Special Considerations  

The term Nasdaq is also used to refer to the Nasdaq Composite. This is an index of more than 2,500 stocks listed on the Nasdaq exchange. This index includes some of the major technology giants, such as:



Apple (AAPL)
Microsoft (MSFT)
Alphabet (GOOG, GOOGL)
Meta Platforms (META)
Amazon (AMZN)
Tesla (TSLA)



The Nasdaq Composite closed at a record high of 16,057.44 on Nov. 19, 2021. The index proceeded to drop more than 23% from that point through April 2022. The Nasdaq Composite's 13.3% decline in April 2022 was its worst monthly drop since October 2008, when the index lost 17.4% amid the global financial crisis. It closed at 13,787.92 on June 30, 2023.






Nasdaq Inc. is listed on the Nasdaq stock market under the symbol NDAQ and has been part of the S&P 500 Index since 2008.


   Nasdaq Trading System  

The Nasdaq computerized trading system was initially devised as an alternative to the inefficient specialist system, which was the prevalent model for almost a century. The rapid evolution of technology has made Nasdaq’s electronic trading model the standard for markets worldwide.



It was only fitting for the world’s up-and-coming technology companies to list on an exchange using the latest technology. As the tech sector grew in prominence in the 1980s and 1990s, the Nasdaq Composite Index became its most widely quoted proxy.



That turned Nasdaq Composite into the index of the dot-com boom and bust. After rallying nearly 150% in the 16 months through March 2000, the Nasdaq Composite then slumped almost 80% by October 2002.


   History of the Nasdaq  

In November 2016, chief operating officer (COO) Adena Friedman was promoted to the role of chief executive officer (CEO), becoming the first woman to run a major exchange in the United States. 


  Board Diversity Disclosure Rule  

On Dec. 1, 2020, Nasdaq proposed a new rule requiring companies listed on the exchange to report on the diversity of their board of directors. The rule requires companies to include on their boards at least one female director and one who is a member of an underrepresented minority or LGBTQ+, or to publicly explain why they have not done so. The SEC approved the board diversity disclosure rule on Aug. 6, 2021.


  Financial Performance  

Nasdaq generates revenue from clients, including financial institutions, brokers, institutional investors, and corporations. Nasdaq's revenue is mainly derived from fees charged for the following:



Market services, which give investors access to various marketsInvestment intelligence, including data, indices, and investment analytics for financial institutions, brokers, and asset managersMarket technology, which includes trading and settlement platforms as well as technology safeguards against financial crimeCorporate services, such as listing fees and investment relations services



Nasdaq reported total net income of $1.12 billion on total revenue of $6.23 billion for the 2022 fiscal year ending Dec. 31, 2022. Revenue less transaction-based expenses came in at $3.58 billion. The company also increased the quarterly dividend per common share to $0.78 in 2022 from $0.70 in 2021.




Is the Nasdaq a U.S. Stock Market?
The Nasdaq is a U.S. stock exchange based in New York City. It officially opened for business in February 1971. There are more than 5,000 companies that trade on the exchange, including domestic and international firms. It was the first automated exchange in the world.




What Is the Nasdaq 100?
The Nasdaq 100 is a large-cap growth index. It is comprised of 100 of the largest U.S. and international non-financial companies—all of which are listed on the Nasdaq stock exchange based on their market caps. Some of the major companies listed include Apple, Dollar Tree, Keurig, Sirius XM Holdings, and Zoom Video Communications. Investors who are interested in taking advantage of the index's returns can do so by investing in mutual funds, exchange-traded funds (ETFs), options, futures, and annuities that track and try to mimic its performance.




Does Apple Trade on the New York Stock Exchange or the Nasdaq?
Apple trades on the Nasdaq under the ticker symbol AAPL. The company went public on Dec. 12, 1980, when it first traded at $22. Apple stock closed at $190.25 on June 30, 2023.


   The Bottom Line  

The Nasdaq is one of the major stock exchanges in the United States. More than 5,000 domestic and foreign companies are listed with a major focus on technology. The exchange opened up for business in 1971 and was the first automated exchange in the world. The Nasdaq Composite Index, which is comprised of more than 2,500 listed companies, is one of the world's most-watched stock market indexes and is considered a gauge of the U.S. and global economies.
What Is the Nasdaq 100 Index?  

The Nasdaq 100 Index is a basket of the 100 largest, most actively traded companies listed on the Nasdaq stock exchange. The index includes companies from various industries except for the financial industry, like commercial and investment banks. These non-financial sectors include industrial, technology, healthcare, and others.





Key Takeaways

The Nasdaq 100 Index is a stock index of the 100 largest companies by modified market capitalization trading on Nasdaq exchanges.The index excludes companies in the financial sector and the sectors it includes are basic materials, consumer discretionary, consumer staples, healthcare, industrials, technology, telecommunications, and utilities.Companies included in the index are some of the largest companies in the world, such as Microsoft, Apple, Amazon, Tesla, and Meta.As the Nasdaq 100 is an index and cannot be directly invested in, investors can gain exposure to the index through exchange-traded funds (ETFs), mutual funds, futures and options, and annuities.


   Understanding the Nasdaq 100 Index  

For inclusion in the Nasdaq 100, index securities must be listed exclusively on a Nasdaq exchange. This can include common stocks, ordinary shares, American depositary receipts (ADRs), and tracking stocks. They must also be non-financial and have traded for at least three months on an exchange.



The liquidity criteria require that each security have a minimum average daily trading volume of 200,000 shares (measured over the three calendar months). There is no market capitalization requirement.



The Nasdaq 100 Index is constructed on a modified capitalization methodology. This modified method uses individual weights of included items according to their market capitalization.



Weighting allows constraints to limit the influence of the largest companies and balance the index with all members. To accomplish this, Nasdaq reviews the composition of the index each quarter and adjusts the weightings if the distribution requirements are not met.


   Composition of the Nasdaq 100 Index  

The Nasdaq 100 Index is composed of assets in various sectors, excluding financial services. There are eight total sections, which are as follows:



Basic materialsConsumer discretionaryConsumer staplesHealthcareIndustrialsTechnologyTelecommunicationsUtilities



The top 10 companies by weight in the Nasdaq 100 as of June 30, 2023, are as follows:



Microsoft Corp.Apple Inc.NVIDIA Corp.Amazon.com Inc.Tesla Inc.Meta Platforms Inc.Alphabet Inc. Class AAlphabet Inc. Class CBroadcom Inc.PepsiCo Inc.


   Investing in the Nasdaq 100 Index  

As the Nasdaq 100 is purely an index tracking the largest 100 companies by modified market cap trading on Nasdaq exchanges, investors cannot directly invest in the index. There are many other ways to gain exposure to the index without having to purchase the individual stocks included in the index.



Investors have the option of investing in exchange-traded funds (ETFs), mutual funds, futures and options, or annuities. For the average investor, opting for an ETF is the simplest and least risky means of gaining exposure to the companies in the index.



Popular Nasdaq 100 Index ETFs include Invesco QQQ (QQQ) Lyxor Nasdaq 100 UCITS ETF (NASL), iShares Nasdaq 100 UCITS ETF (CNDX), and Xtrackers Nasdaq 100 UCITS ETF (XNAS).




What Makes Up the Nasdaq 100?
The Nasdaq 100 is made up of the 100 largest companies by modified market cap that trade on Nasdaq exchanges in the basic materials, consumer discretionary, consumer staples, healthcare, industrials, technology, telecommunications, and utilities sectors.




What Is the Nasdaq 100 Used For?
The Nasdaq 100 is a stock index that tracks some of the most prominent large-cap companies in the world. As such, it functions as an indicator of the overall health of the economy and the specific sectors that are included in the index. The performance of the index allows investors to understand the performance of a portion of the economy and make investment decisions based on that data.




What Is the Difference Between the Nasdaq 100 and the S&P 500?
Both the Nasdaq 100 and the S&P 500 are stock market indexes that track the performance of some of the largest companies. Both serve as indicators of the market as a whole and the broader economy. The differences between the two are that the Nasdaq 100 includes only 100 companies while the S&P 500 includes 500 companies. The companies in the Nasdaq 100 do not have to be only U.S. companies whereas all the companies in the S&P 500 are U.S. companies. Additionally, the Nasdaq 100 excludes the financial sector whereas the S&P 500 includes all sectors. Lastly, the Nasdaq 100 only consists of companies that trade on Nasdaq exchanges while the S&P 500 consists of companies that trade on all U.S. exchanges.


   The Bottom Line  

The Nasdaq 100 Index focuses on the largest 100 non-financial companies trading on Nasdaq exchanges. It is a diversified index with broad exposure to the market, covering a variety of sectors. Investors seeking to gain broad exposure to some of the largest companies in the world can look to investing in the index via ETFs, mutual funds, futures and options, or annuities.
What Is the Nasdaq Capital Market?  

The Nasdaq Capital Market is one of Nasdaq's U.S. market tiers containing early-stage companies that have relatively lower market capitalizations. Listing requirements for companies on the Nasdaq Capital Market are less stringent than for the two other Nasdaq market tiers, which focus on larger companies with higher market capitalization.





Key Takeaways

The Nasdaq Capital Market (Nasdaq-CM) is one of three listing tiers on the Nasdaq exchange, specifically for companies that need to raise capital.Companies listed here may be small companies with a need to grow capital or shell corporations designed to raise capital in public markets for the purpose of acquiring other business entities.Companies that don't qualify for the Nasdaq National Market trade on Nasdaq-CM.Nasdaq Capital Market companies are required to meet a net income standard of at least $750,000, a minimum public float of 1,000,000 shares, at least 300 shareholders, and a share bid price of at least $4 (with certain exceptions).


   Understanding the Nasdaq Capital Market  

The Nasdaq Capital Market, known until 2005 as the Nasdaq SmallCap Market, primarily lists so-called small-cap stocks (typically those with market capitalizations of around $300 million to $2 billion). The name change reflected a shift in focus towards listing companies that need to raise capital. It's meant to be a less encumbered entrance for a smaller company or a Special Purpose Acquisition Company (SPAC) to capitalize and grow through a Nasdaq listing.



Although the initial listing requirements are relaxed, the corporate governance required to maintain a Nasdaq listing is the same across all tiers. This means Nasdaq Capital Market companies must have a code of conduct, an audit committee, independent directors, and so on.


   Listing Requirements for the Nasdaq Capital Market  

The Nasdaq Capital Market makes it easier for early-stage companies to get listed, especially when compared to other senior exchanges with more onerous requirements. To list initially on the Nasdaq Capital Market, companies must meet all of the criteria under at least one of three listing standards—the equity standard, the market value of listed securities standard, or the total assets/total revenue standard.



All the standards share some requirements such as one million publicly held shares, 300 shareholders, and three market makers (MMs). However, these also differ in important ways. The equity standard requires stockholders' equity of $5 million, where the other two require only $4 million, and it also requires an operating history of two years, while the other two do not require an operating history.



The market value of listed securities requires a market value of listed securities of $50 million and a market value of publicly held shares of $15 million. The net income standard is the only one requiring a net income, $750,000 in the latest fiscal year or in two of the last three years, but has the lowest requirement for market value of publicly held shares at $5 million.



Although companies can pick the standard that best fits their situation, the listing standards and the required governance are more stringent than some early-phase capital markets. Because of the costs involved with meeting these standards, companies listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market often handily exceed the minimum requirements before they decide to list.



Other early phase capital markets like the alternative investments market, or AIM, have positioned themselves as lighter regulation destinations to provide bridge listings for companies as they grow large enough for the Nasdaq.


   Nasdaq Listing Tiers  

The Nasdaq exchange has three tiers for listed companies:



Nasdaq Capital Market: formerly known as the Nasdaq SmallCap Market for small-cap companies
Nasdaq Global Market: previously part of the Nasdaq National Market (Nasdaq-NM) for about 1,450 mid-cap stocks
Nasdaq Global Select Market: the newest tier, which was previously part of the Nasdaq National Market, and lists about 1,200 large-cap companies



The listing requirements for each tier require varying levels of documentation, average market capitalization over the previous month, and a number of shareholders. Companies may move from one tier to another over time depending on how they meet requirements. The top tier, Nasdaq Global Select typically has about 1,200 companies listed, while the lower tiers fluctuate around 1,000 to 1,500 companies each.
What Is the Nasdaq Composite Index?  

The Nasdaq Composite Index is a market capitalization-weighted index of more than 2,500 stocks listed on the Nasdaq stock exchange. It is a broad index that is heavily weighted toward the important technology sector. The index is composed of both domestic and international companies. The Nasdaq Composite Index is a highly-watched index and is a staple of financial markets reports.





Key Takeaways

The Nasdaq Composite Index is an index of more than 2,500 stocks that trade on the Nasdaq. The index is weighted by market capitalization and includes both domestic and international companies.It is heavily weighted in technology stocks, followed by consumer discretionary and healthcare companies.


   Understanding the Nasdaq Composite Index  

The Nasdaq Composite Index includes all equity securities listed on the Nasdaq. They include common stocks, ordinary shares, American depositary receipts (ADRs), units of real estate investment trusts (REITs), and publicly traded partnerships, as well as tracking stocks,



Stocks that aren't eligible for inclusion are the securities of closed-end funds, exchange-traded funds (ETFs), preferred shares, rights, warrants, convertible debenture securities, or other derivatives.



The Nasdaq Composite includes the stocks of companies headquartered in the U.S. International companies are also included in the index, which is in contrast to the S&P 500 Index and the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA)—the two other most frequently cited market benchmarks.






The Nasdaq Composite Index is one of the most widely-watched indexes in the world and is often seen as a stand-in for the technology sector, due to its heavy weighting in tech companies.


   Nasdaq Composite Index Methodology  

The Nasdaq Composite Index was launched on Feb. 5, 1971. It uses a market capitalization weighting methodology. The index's value is calculated by summing the market capitalization of its components based on the current price of the constituents. This total is then adjusted by a constant index divisor. The index had a value of 100 when it was first established.



The index is constantly calculated throughout the trading day. Its value is disseminated once per second from 9:30 a.m. to 5:16 p.m. ET. The closing value of the index may change up until 5:15 p.m. ET as a result of corrections to the last reported price for index components.



Two versions of the Nasdaq Composite Index are calculated. The first is a price return index and the other is a total return index. The total return index assumes the reinvestment of cash dividends distributed by companies included in the index.





1971

The year the Nasdaq Composite Index was launched. It had an initial value of 100.



Changes in the share price as a result of corporate actions such as stock splits, stock dividends, or spinoffs are tallied on the action's ex-date. Changes in total shares outstanding following conversions, stock repurchases, secondary offerings, or acquisitions are usually reflected on the night before the action's effective date.



Eligibility requirements for the index are reviewed throughout the year. A security that does not meet the eligibility requirements can be removed at any time, usually at its last sale price.


   Nasdaq Composite Index Composition  

As noted above, the Nasaq Composite is made up of more than 2,500 different companies that trade on the Nasdaq. The industry weighting of the Nasdaq Composite Index based on the included stocks was as follows as of July 10, 2023:









Sector Breakdown for Nasdaq Composite Index




Technology
55.32%


Consumer Discretionary 
18.80% 


Healthcare 
8.08% 


Industrials 
4.66% 


Financials
3.47%


Telecommunications
3.22%


Consumer Staples
2.96%


Energy
1.05%


Real Estate
1.05%


Utilities
0.94%


Basic Materials
0.45%






The 10 most heavily weighed securities in the Nasdaq Composite Index as of March 31, 2023, were:



Apple (AAPL): 13.79%
Microsoft (MSFT): 11.44%
Amazon (AMZN): 6.04%
NVIDIA (NVDA): 4.72%
Tesla Inc (TSLA): 3.75%
Alphabet Class A (GOOGL): 3.21%
Alphabet Class C (GOOG): 3.21%
Meta Platforms (META): 2.87%
Broadcom (AVGO): 1.63%
Pepsico (PEP): 1.15%


   Nasdaq Composite Index Market Performance  

The Nasdaq Composite Index produced an annualized return of 14.66% over the 10 years through July 7, 2023.



Its 9.1% decline in Q1 2022 was the Nasdaq Composite's worst since the 14.2% loss in Q1 2020 as the COVID-19 pandemic struck. The Nasdaq's 12% drop in April 2022 was its worst since the 17.4% decline in October 2008 at the height of the global financial crisis.



The Nasdaq Composite met the common definition for a bear market in mid-March of 2022 by dropping more than 20% from its Jan. 3, 2022 peak. From there, the index saw a strong relief rally that roughly halved its losses by the start of April, then gave back all those gains over the next month.



Because the Nasdaq Composite is dominated by the historically volatile technology sector, index performance tends to be more volatile than that of the S&P 500 or the Dow Industrials.




How Can I Invest in the Nasdaq Composite Index?
No, you can't invest in the Nasdaq Composite Index. But you can invest in a security that mimics its performance. There are assets like mutual funds or exchange-traded funds (ETFs) that are composed of the same stocks with the same weightings that try to at least match the index's performance.




What Are the Benefits of Index Investing?
There are several key benefits of index investing. They give you broad exposure to the market. That's because they are made up of stocks from a wide range of different sectors. For instance, the Nasdaq is heavily focused on technology stocks but also has exposure to consumer discretionary, healthcare, and financial stocks among others.Index investing is easier to manage because securities like mutual funds and ETFs are reallocated whenever the corresponding index changes. This eliminates any bias as portfolio managers only make adjustments when the index does.




How Is the Nasdaq Composite Index Constructed?
The Nasdaq Composite Index is a market-capitalization-weighted index. This means the index is heavily influenced by larger companies. The index is one of the most heavily-watched in the world.


   The Bottom Line  

The Nasdaq Composite Index rose to prominence thanks to the rapid growth of the most successful companies with Nasdaq-listed stocks, including Microsoft and more recently Apple and Alphabet.



The flip side of such ling-term success in an index based on market capitalization is that the Nasdaq Composite is very top-heavy. The top five companies (and six stocks including both traded classes of Alphabet's shares) account for more than 40% of the Nasdaq Composite's index weight.



Moreover, high-growth stocks prevalent in the index tend to be more economically sensitive and more volatile as a result. When the market does well, the Nasdaq Composite can be a standout: it gained 43.6% in 2020 despite a rough March, after a 35.2% surge in 2019. When the going gets rough, you get its 40.5% loss in 2008—or the first four months of 2022.
What Is the NASDAQ Global Select Market Composite?  

The NASDAQ Global Select Market Composite is a market capitalization-weighted index made up of U.S.-based and international stocks that represent the NASDAQ Global Select Market. As of August 2020, the NASDAQ Global Select Market Composite consisted of more than 1,400 stocks that meet Nasdaq's strict financial and liquidity requirements and corporate governance standards.﻿﻿



The Global Market Select Composite is more exclusive than the Global Market Composite. Every October, the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Department reviews the Global Market Composite to determine if any of its stocks have become eligible for listing on the Global Select Market.





Key Takeaways

The NASDAQ Global Select Market Composite is a market capitalization-weighted index consisting of about 1,400 stocks that represent the NASDAQ Global Select Market.﻿﻿The NASDAQ is composed of three distinct tiers: The NASDAQ Global Select Market, the NASDAQ Global Market, and the NASDAQ Capital Market.The Global Select Market differs from the Global Market in that it is more exclusive and must meet more stringent financial and liquidity requirements.Companies in the Capital Market tier meet less stringent requirements and have lower levels of market capitalization compared to the other two tiers.﻿﻿


   Understanding the NASDAQ Global Select Market Composite  

This stock index was created in July 2006 when the Nasdaq National Market split into two tiers, the NASDAQ Global Market and the NASDAQ Global Select Market.﻿﻿ The change was nominal, as it did not affect listing standards, but rather was meant to reflect the global scope of the index and the companies listed on it. The select index encompasses about a third of the largest companies listed on the NASDAQ.


  Market Capitalization  

The companies that comprise each tier of the NASDAQ are placed according to their market capitalization. The NASDAQ Global Select Market tier is the most selective tier. To qualify for this "large-cap" category, a company must meet the strictest financial requirements. A company's stock is reviewed annually to ensure it continues to be listed under the proper tier.﻿﻿



If a stock meets or exceeds its current market cap requirements, under its current tier, it could be promoted to the larger market capitalization tier. If, however, a company's stock does not measure up to the market cap requirements of its current tier, it can be demoted to a smaller market capitalization tier.


   NASDAQ Global Select Market vs. Other NASDAQ Tiers  

The NASDAQ has three distinct tiers: The NASDAQ Global Select Market, the NASDAQ Global Market, and the NASDAQ Capital Market. Potential NASDAQ companies must satisfy a variety of financial, liquidity, and corporate governance requirements to be approved for listing on any market tier.



Requirements for inclusion in the NASDAQ Global Select Market are the most stringent of the three. Requirements for the NASDAQ Global Market are more stringent than those for the NASDAQ Capital Market. It's important to note that corporate governance requirements are the same across all NASDAQ market tiers.



Even though a company’s securities qualify for initial inclusion, NASDAQ may deny initial listing, or apply additional conditions, if necessary to protect investors and the public interest.


   Requirements for NASDAQ Global Select Market  

A company interested in pursuing a stock market listing on the Nasdaq must complete and submit an application. In general, it will take Nasdaq four to six weeks to process a new listing application. The Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Staff is responsible for conducting a preliminary review of the application and issuing the company a comment letter. The company will have a specified time period to resolve or address any issues raised in the comment letter. If all issues are resolved satisfactorily, Nasdaq will complete their review and the company will be approved for listing.﻿﻿



As mentioned, the listing requirements for NASDAQ Global Select are more stringent than the other tiers. To meet the financial requirements, a company will need to meet all the criteria of at least one of these four standards established by Nasdaq:



Standard 1: Earnings
Standard 2: Capitalization with cash flow
Standard 3: Capitalization with revenue
Standard 4: Assets with equity﻿﻿



Additionally, the company must meet liquidity requirements that vary depending on whether the company is an initial public offering (IPO), a spinoff, or already currently trading common stock.﻿﻿
What Is Nash Equilibrium?  

Nash equilibrium is a concept in game theory where the optimal outcome is when there is no incentive for players to deviate from their initial strategy. The players have knowledge of their opponent’s strategy and still will not deviate from their initial chosen strategies because it remains the optimal strategy for each player.



Overall, an individual can receive no incremental benefit from changing actions, assuming that other players remain constant in their strategies. A game may have multiple Nash equilibria or none at all.





Key Takeaways

The Nash equilibrium is a decision-making theorem within game theory that states a player can achieve the desired outcome by not deviating from their initial strategy.In the Nash equilibrium, each player’s strategy is optimal when considering the decisions of other players. Every player wins because everyone gets the outcome that they desire.The prisoner’s dilemma is a common game theory example and one that adequately showcases the effect of the Nash equilibrium.The Nash equilibrium is often discussed in conjunction with dominant strategy, which states that the chosen strategy of an actor will lead to better results out of all the possible strategies that can be used, regardless of the strategy that the opponent uses.The Nash equilibrium does not always mean that the most optimal strategy is chosen.












Jiaqi Zhou / Investopedia


   Understanding Nash Equilibrium  

Nash equilibrium is named after its inventor, John Nash, an American mathematician. It is considered one of the most important concepts of game theory, which attempts to determine mathematically and logically the actions that participants of a game should take to secure the best outcomes for themselves.



The reason why Nash equilibrium is considered such an important concept of game theory relates to its applicability. The Nash equilibrium can be incorporated into a wide range of disciplines, from economics to social sciences.



To quickly find the Nash equilibrium or see if it even exists, reveal each player’s strategy to the other players. If no one changes their strategy, then the Nash equilibrium is proven.






   Nash Equilibrium vs. Dominant Strategy  

Nash equilibrium is often compared alongside dominant strategy, both being strategies of game theory. The Nash equilibrium states that the optimal strategy for an actor is to stay the course of their initial strategy while knowing the opponent’s strategy and that all players maintain the same strategy.



Dominant strategy asserts that the chosen strategy of an actor will lead to better results out of all the possible strategies that can be used, regardless of the strategy that the opponent uses.






All models of game theory only work if the players involved are “rational agents,” meaning that they desire specific outcomes, operate in attempting to choose the most optimal outcome, incorporate uncertainty in their decisions, and are realistic in their options.



Both terms are similar but slightly different. Nash equilibrium states that nothing is gained if any of the players change their strategy while all of the other players maintain their strategy. Dominant strategy asserts that a player will choose a strategy that will lead to the best outcome regardless of the strategies that the other players have chosen. Dominant strategy can be included in Nash equilibrium, whereas a Nash equilibrium may not be the best strategy in a game.


   Example of Nash Equilibrium  

Imagine a game between Tom and Sam. In this simple game, both players can choose strategy A, to receive $1, or strategy B, to lose $1. Logically, both players choose strategy A and receive a payoff of $1.



If you revealed Sam’s strategy to Tom and vice versa, you see that no player deviates from the original choice. Knowing the other player’s move means little and doesn’t change either player’s behavior. Outcome A represents a Nash equilibrium.












Julie Bang / Investopedia


   Prisoner’s Dilemma  

The prisoner’s dilemma is a common situation analyzed in game theory that can employ the Nash equilibrium. In this game, two criminals are arrested and each is held in solitary confinement with no means of communicating with the other. The prosecutors do not have the evidence to convict the pair, so they offer each prisoner the opportunity to either betray the other by testifying that the other committed the crime or cooperate by remaining silent.



If both prisoners betray each other, each serves five years in prison. If A betrays B but B remains silent, prisoner A is set free and prisoner B serves 10 years in prison, or vice versa. If each remains silent, then each serves just one year in prison.



In this example, the Nash equilibrium is for both players to betray each other. Even though mutual cooperation leads to a better outcome if one prisoner chooses mutual cooperation and the other does not, one prisoner’s outcome is worse.




What is a Nash equilibrium in game theory?
Nash equilibrium in game theory is a situation in which a player will continue with their chosen strategy, having no incentive to deviate from it, after taking into consideration the opponent’s strategy.




How do you find Nash equilibrium?
To find the Nash equilibrium in a game, one would have to model out each of the possible scenarios to determine the results and then choose what the optimal strategy would be. In a two-person game, this would take into consideration the possible strategies that both players could choose. If neither player changes their strategy knowing all of the information, a Nash equilibrium has occurred.




Why is Nash equilibrium important?
Nash equilibrium is important because it helps a player determine the best payoff in a situation based on not only their decisions but also the decisions of other parties involved. Nash equilibrium can be utilized in many facets of life, from business strategies to selling a house, from war to social sciences, and so on.




How do you calculate Nash equilibrium?
There is not a specific formula to calculate Nash equilibrium. It can be determined by modeling out different scenarios within a given game to determine the payoff of each strategy and which would be the optimal strategy to choose.




What are the limitations of Nash equilibrium?
The primary limitation of Nash equilibrium is that it requires an individual to know their opponent’s strategy. A Nash equilibrium can only occur if a player chooses to remain with their current strategy if they know their opponent’s strategy.In most cases, such as in war—whether that be a military war or a bidding war—an individual rarely knows the opponent’s strategy or what they want the outcome to be. Unlike dominant strategy, the Nash equilibrium doesn’t always lead to the most optimal outcome. It just means that an individual chooses the best strategy based on the information they have.Furthermore, in multiple games played with the same opponents, the Nash equilibrium does not take into consideration past behavior, which often predicts future behavior.


   The Bottom Line  

The Nash equilibrium is a component of game theory that asserts that a player will continue with their chosen strategy while knowing their opponent’s strategy as they have no incentive to change course. The Nash equilibrium can be applied in a variety of real-life situations to determine what the best payoff in a scenario would be, based on your decisions as well as knowledge of your opponent’s decisions.
What Is the National Association of Certified Valuators and Analysts (NACVA)?  

The National Association of Certified Valuators and Analysts (NACVA) is a group of business professionals that provide valuation and litigation services for various types of business transactions. National Association of Certified Valuators and Analysts members receive training, education, and certification in asset valuation disciplines that they put to use in their respective professions. The organization also enforces standards of ethical conduct among its members.



The association uses the axiom: The Authority in Matters of Value®





Key Takeaways

The National Association of Certified Valuators and Analysts (NACVA) is a group of business professionals that provide valuation and litigation services.National Association of Certified Valuators and Analysts members receive training, education, and certification in asset valuation disciplines.NACVA members work in careers that provide valuation and litigation services, including mergers and acquisitions, initial public offerings, and bankruptcy.NACVA also provides accreditations of Certified Valuation Analysts (CVA), Master Analyst in Financial Forensics (MAFF), Accredited in Business Appraisal Review (ABAR), Certified Business Appraiser (CBA), and Master Certified Business Appraiser (MCBA).


   Understanding the National Association of Certified Valuators and Analysts (NACVA)  

The National Association of Certified Valuators and Analysts (NACVA) was founded in 1991 and is headquartered in Salt Lake City, Utah. NACVA members work in careers that provide valuation and litigation services, including mergers and acquisitions, initial public offerings (IPOs), and bankruptcy.



The NACVA also provides accreditations of Certified Valuation Analysts (CVA), Master Analyst in Financial Forensics (MAFF), Accredited in Business Appraisal Review (ABAR), Certified Business Appraiser (CBA), and Master Certified Business Appraiser (MCBA).



Across databases, software, certifications, and professional standards, the association's mission includes providing members with a range of high-quality resources to facilitate their consultants’ success by enhancing their efficiencies and giving them a competitive advantage.



As the art and science of business valuation have gotten increasingly more complex, the NACVA is playing a central role in positioning its members and candidates to meet these evolving challenges through ongoing educational materials, peer support, and professional standards.



In the field of business valuation, the National Association of Certified Valuators and Analysts (NACVA) is the only accredited organization by the National Commission for Certifying Agencies (NCAA) and the American National Standards Institute (ANSI).


   Certifications  

The certifications that NACVA provides focus on different areas of analysis and litigation.



Certified Valuation Analyst (CVA): CVAs focus on providing business valuations to consulting companies and their clients.



Master Analyst in Financial Forensics (MAFF): MAFFs provide assurance to companies that need financial litigation services. The certification requires prerequisites, experience, and passing a five-hour exam that tests the candidate on NACVA's Financial Forensics Body of Knowledge.



Accredited in Business Appraisal Review (ABAR): ABAR is the highest standard in the valuation field, particularly in business appraisal reports; however, ABAR has now ceased and active members need to recertify every three years but no new members can be certified.



Certified Business Appraiser (CBA) and Master Certified Business Appraiser (MCBA): These two credentials are considered to be the industry's most difficult to obtain. These credentials have also ceased being offered as the difficulty did not generate enough demand.


   Membership  

The National Association of Certified Valuators and Analysts (NACVA) provides a variety of different memberships suited to different needs and qualifications. The memberships are the Practitioner Membership, Ultimate Membership, Professional Membership, Affiliate Membership, Academician Membership, Government Employee Membership, Student Membership, and Legal Professional Membership.



Depending on the membership, the annual cost ranges from $135 to $545. Each membership comes with different benefits and access to different aspects of NACVA.



The benefits of membership include an entire support network for individuals wishing to pursue a career in business valuation. NACVA provides education, certifications, online learning, access to a variety of publications, industry-specific training, such as in healthcare, software and database, litigation, and management



The organization also has a variety of support groups, such as a writer's guild, a mentor support group, a pro-bono group, a training team, and a speakers bureau.



"NACVA has trained over 40,000 CPAs and other valuation and consulting professionals in the fields of business valuation, financial forensics, financial litigation, and related specialty services in the business and legal communities."




How Do I Become a Certified Valuation Analyst (CVA)?
There are six primary steps to becoming a CVA. These are (1) meeting the CVA qualifications and applying for the designation, (2) paying a CVA designation fee or becoming a member at NACVA, (3) studying the provided material for the exam, (4) passing the CVA exam, (5) participating in a peer-reviewed business valuation report, (6) and paying membership fees and completing the continuing education requirements every three years to maintain the designation.




How Long Does It Take to Become a CVA?
To become a CVA an individual must study for and pass the exam; however, to become a CVA, an individual must meet certain prerequisites. These include having a bachelor's degree in business management and/or an MBA, two or more years of experience in business valuation or related fields, and having performed 10 or more business valuations. The time to complete the above prerequisites will vary from individual to individual.




What Does a Valuation Analyst Do?
A valuation analyst performs an appraisal of a business, which includes examining costs, risks, industry trends, budgets, timelines, cash flows, and a slew of other metrics to determine the valuation of a business.
What Is the National Association of Federally-Insured Credit Unions (NAFCU)?  

The National Association of Federally-Insured Credit Unions (NAFCU) is an industry trade group founded in 1967 to represent the interests of federal credit unions, and promote the success and efficiency of the industry. Its membership is made up of both large and small credit unions.



NAFCU represents 72% of total federal credit union (FCU) assets and 51% of all FICU assets. NAFCU’s membership includes over 180 federally-insured state-chartered credit unions (FISCUs). Its activities include representing, informing, educating, and assisting its members regarding industry issues. Headquartered in Arlington, Va., one of its main purposes is to influence the laws and regulations affecting federal credit unions.


   Understanding the National Association of Federally-Insured Credit Unions (NAFCU)  

The National Association of Federally-Insured Credit Unions (NAFCU) is a trade group for federal credit unions. Federal credit unions are similar to banks, but are owned by their members and are organized under federal rather than state law. They are regulated by the National Credit Union Administration, and members' deposits are protected by the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund, which is similar to FDIC insurance.



The Federal Credit Union system was established by the Federal Credit Union Act in 1934 to promote savings and the financing of homeownership and other productive purposes. Credit Unions that are recognized by the federal government through the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA), an independent federal agency, are tax-exempt under Section 501(c)14 of the United States Internal Revenue Code.



Though federal credit unions don’t earn income and pay no corporate income tax, they are required to pay fees to fund regulatory functions and deposit insurance. Federal credit unions are also required to report their finances to the NCUA at least once per year, but they also may be required to report more than once per year.


   Priorities of the National Association of Federally-Insured Credit Unions  

The NAFCU was formed in 1967, and its first major policy victory was the establishment of the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund, which is the deposit insurance program for credit unions.



The next big policy battle for the NAFCU was in the 1990s when the organization fought off efforts to roll back deposit insurance for credit unions. It also took great interest in the Dodd-Frank financial reform legislation, fighting efforts to make credit unions subject to oversight by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.



The National Association of Federal Credit Unions argued that due to credit unions’ non-profit and member-owned structure, they do not deserve the same level of scrutiny as for-profit banks and that compliance with CFPB regulations would be unduly burdensome.
What Is the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC)?  

The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) is a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization governed by the chief insurance regulators of the 50 states, the District of Columbia, and the five U.S. territories: American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands. The NAIC sets standards and establishes best practices for the U.S. insurance industry and provides support to insurance regulators. It also provides information and resources to consumers. Insurance products sold in the U.S. are largely regulated by the states, rather than the federal government.





Key Takeaways

Insurance in the United States is regulated primarily by the individual states, rather than by the federal government.The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) is led by the insurance commissioners of the 50 states, plus Washington, D.C., and five U.S. territories.The NAIC develops model rules and regulations for insurance companies and products.The association also offers programs, information, and online tools for insurance consumers.


   History of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners  

The NAIC was founded in 1871 by state insurance regulators to address the need to "coordinate regulation of multistate insurers. The first major step in that process was the development of uniform financial reporting by insurance companies."



Because insurers often do business in multiple states, the question of whether they should be regulated on a state or federal level has long been a matter of debate in the U.S. The 1944 Supreme Court case United States v. The South-Eastern Underwriters Association determined that the insurance industry should be subject to regulation by Congress under the Commerce Clause of the Constitution, which gives lawmakers regulatory authority over interstate and international commerce. However, Congress effectively overrode that ruling the following year with the passage of the McCarran-Ferguson Act, which exempted the insurance industry from most federal regulation, including antitrust laws.



Today, with few exceptions, that regulatory authority still resides with the states and their elected or appointed insurance commissioners.


   How the National Association of Insurance Commissioners Works  

The NAIC is headquartered in Kansas City, Mo., with executive offices in Washington, D.C. The group says its regulatory goals are to:



Protect the public interestPromote competitive marketsFacilitate the fair and equitable treatment of insurance consumersPromote the reliability, solvency, and financial solidity of insurance institutionsSupport and improve state regulation of insurance



Through committees, task forces, and working groups, the NAIC develops model laws and regulations to help standardize insurance across the states. Its standing committees include life insurance and annuities, health insurance and managed care, property and casualty insurance, market regulation and consumer affairs, the financial condition of insurers, financial regulation standards and accreditation, and international insurance relations.



The NAIC and its committees normally meet three times a year. These meetings are generally open to the public.



The NAIC also offers education and training courses for insurance regulators. In 2006, it launched the Insurance Regulator Professional Designation Program and awarded its first professional designation the following year.






The NAIC website has a variety of resources consumers can use to learn about insurance products and check out complaint data on specific companies.


   The NAIC and Consumer Complaints  

In addition to its work in support of state insurance regulators, the NAIC offers a number of tools for consumers. Its Consumer Insurance Search tool helps consumers research specific insurance companies, including any complaint data the NAIC has collected. Companies are scored on a national complaint index, which shows whether they've received more or fewer complaints than other insurers, after adjusting for market share.



According to the NAIC's most recent aggregated data from state insurance departments, the majority of complaints in 2021 involved how an insurer handled policyholders' claims, with unsatisfactory settlements or offers, delayed claims, and denied claims collectively accounting for just over 50% of all complaints. Other types of complaints, though much lower on the list in terms of percentages, included high-pressure sales tactics, misleading advertising, and discrimination.



For consumers who would like to register a complaint of their own, the NAIC website also has a File a Complaint tool, with links to state insurance departments for further information on the process.



Along with those consumer resources, the NAIC website offers basic information on life, health, homeowners, automobile, and several other types of insurance. It also has a Life Insurance Policy Locator tool, which consumers can use to request information on whether a deceased relative left behind an unclaimed policy.



The NAIC should not be confused with groups with similar acronyms: the National Association of Investors Corp. or the North American Industry Classification System.
What Is the National Association of Insurance and Financial Advisors (NAIFA)?  

The National Association of Insurance and Financial Advisors (NAIFA) is a trade organization for insurance professionals and financial advisors, based in Virginia near Washington, D.C. It is one of the largest trade groups in the financial industry. NAIFA works on behalf of its members to promote a favorable regulative environment, provide professional education services, and ensure ethical professional conduct for insurance and financial advisors.



NAIFA represents insurance professionals in all 50 states and has at least one local chapter in every state, as well as the District of Columbia. Its main offices are based in Falls Church, Virginia. The organization provides its members with sales training, networking facilities, and other tools to help them succeed and build their practices. In addition, the organization also lobbies on Capitol Hill to promote favorable legislation for the insurance and financial advisory industry.





Key Takeaways

The National Association of Insurance and Financial Advisors (NAIFA) is a trade organization for insurance professionals and financial advisors.NAIFA works on behalf of its members to promote a favorable regulative environment, provide professional education services, and ensure ethical professional conduct for insurance and financial advisors.NAIFA represents insurance professionals in all 50 states and has at least one local chapter in every state, as well as the District of Columbia. Its main offices are based in Falls Church, Virginia.The organization provides its members with sales training, networking facilities, and other tools to help them succeed and build their practices. In addition, the organization also lobbies on Capitol Hill to promote favorable legislation for the insurance and financial advisory industry.


   Understanding the National Association of Insurance and Financial Advisors (NAIFA)  

NAIFA was originally founded in 1890 as the National Association of Life Underwriters (NALU). NAIFA has many endorsements from large insurance and financial corporations, who encourage their employees to join a local NAIFA chapter. Some leading companies support NAIFA membership by contributing towards dues payments and facilitating payments for their employees.



One of the goals of NAIFA is to promote life insurance and other risk mitigation practices as the core of a solid financial plan. Above all, NAIFA exists to ensure professional and ethical conduct among all insurance representatives and financial advisors. The organization's vision plan is to "protect and promote the critical role of insurance in a sound financial plan and the essential role provided by our professional agents and advisors."



The organization calls itself the top association for producers in financial services. Members of NAIFA provide life insurance and annuities, health insurance and employee benefits, multiline insurance products, and financial advice to their clients. Insurance agents, financial advisors, multiline agents, and health insurance and employee benefits specialists are all members of NAIFA.



NAIFA offers educational offerings for its members, including professional development and continuing education programs. The organization also offers more than 50 professional programs and products that are intended to enhance skills and provide value-added business services for professionals. This programming is intended to help ensure that all insurance agents, groups, and financial advisors adhere to a framework of principles, rules, and regulations that ensure customers are given the very best services.


   Requirements for Membership  

NAIFA has a Code of Ethics, which all members must abide by:



Help maintain my clients’ confidence and protect their right to privacy.Work diligently to satisfy the needs of my client by acting in their best interest.Present, accurately and honestly, all facts essential to my clients’ financial decisions.Render timely and proper service to my clients and ultimately their beneficiaries.Continually enhance professionalism by developing my skills and increasing my knowledge through education.Obey the letter and spirit of all laws and regulations which govern my profession.Conduct all business dealings in a manner that would reflect favorably on NAIFA and my profession.Cooperate with others whose services best promote the interests of my clients.Protect the financial interests of my clients, their financial products, and my profession, through political advocacy.






NAIFA is a federation of 700 state and local associations.


   Benefits of NAIFA  

NAIFA is the insurance industry's leading lobby in Washington, D.C. and in state legislatures, committed to protecting the careers of its members, as well as their clients' interests, from unfavorable legislation and regulation. It also runs IFAPAC, one of the largest political action committees (PACs) in the financial services industry.



NAIFA membership also comes with networking opportunities and access to the latest industry ideas and top practitioners, NAIFA members receive a free subscription to Advisor Today, the official publication of NAIFA and a resource for sales ideas and industry news for insurance and financial advisors.



In addition, NAIFA hosts a number of centers that can be resources for members. These include:



The Advanced Practice Center: Provides thought leadership in advanced markets topics and conceptsThe Advocacy Action Center: Provides tools to contact state and federal legislators on a variety of issues, as well as information to learn more about the bills in the House and Senate that NAIFA Government Relations is monitoring.The Business Performance Center: Provides articles, webinars, sessions, and more that help financial entrepreneurs to grow their practice.Limited & Extended Care Planning Center: Empowers professionals to network with solution and service providers to share best practices, directly access subject matter experts, research, training, and resources.Talent Development Center: Offers materials that can be used to grow the next generation of financial professionals and ensure that advisors reflect the diversity and inclusivity of their clientele.The Learning Center: Access to online and in-person exam prep, continuing education, and professional development courses.




What Does NAIFA Do?
The mission of the National Association of Insurance and Financial Advisors is to advocate for a positive legislative and regulatory environment, enhance business and professional skills, and promote the ethical conduct of our members. It achieves this by lobbying the government, advocating for its members, and providing members with various benefits and resources.




How Many Members Does NAIFA Have?
NAIFA has more than 50,000 members.




How Much Does NAIFA Membership Cost?
Membership in NAIFA is $565 annually, which includes local, state, and national dues.
What Is the National Association of Investors Corp.?  

The National Association of Investors Corp. (NAIC) is a nonprofit organization founded in 1951, and dedicated to providing investor education and promote investor success. The association is based in Madison Heights, Mich., and is composed of investing clubs along with individual investors from around the United States. The organization today goes mainly by the name BetterInvesting.



It should not be confused with the National Association of Insurance Commissioners or the North American Industry Classification System, which also use the NAIC acronym.





Key Takeaways

The National Association of Investors Corp. (NAIC) is dedicated to providing investment information, education, and support that helps create successful long-term investors.Known by its public-facing brand BetterInvesting, the NAIC is a non-profit organization made up primarily of investment clubs and their members.The organization published a magazine by the same name, and maintains in-depth online resources in addition to more traditional training events and seminars.


   Understanding the National Association of Investors Corp.  

The National Association of Investors Corp. (NAIC), better known publicly by its brand "BetterInvesting", is a Michigan-based 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization whose aim is to teach and train individuals how to become more successful long-term investors. The NAIC is an umbrella organization that had about 3,000 member investment clubs and more than 34,000 individual members at the end of 2018. The original name of the NAIC was the National Association of Investment Clubs.



The National Association of Investors Corp.’s member magazine is called BetterInvesting, and it became the branded name of the association in 2004. The organization was founded in 1951 when three investment clubs formed the national association. Its mission is to educate individuals on the benefits of long-term investing in common stocks. With the popularity of 401(k)s and other defined-contribution retirement plans, education regarding stock and bond mutual funds was added.



Depending on their membership level, members have access to online tools for determining whether a stock is that of a quality growth company and is selling at a price that will provide sufficient potential return. Members also receive educational webinars, First Cut stock studies contributed by the BetterInvesting community, digital and print editions of BetterInvesting Magazine, local chapter support, and other products and services.


   NAIC Core Principles  

The National Association of Investors Corp. stresses four principles for successful, long-term investing:



Invest regularly, regardless of market conditions;
Reinvest all earnings;
Invest in growth companies (and growth mutual funds); and
Diversify to reduce risk.



The heart of the National Association of Investors Corp. Investment approach to investing is the third principle — investing in growth companies.



The primary tool NAIC uses to evaluate common stocks is a two-page form with a semi-log graph on the front called the Stock Selection Guide (SSG). The SSG dates to the founding of the organization and was created by George A. Nicholson. The SSG displays a company's 10-year sales and earnings per share history, pretax profit margins and return on equity; five-year annual high and low price-earnings ratios and other important information meant to answer two questions:



Is this a well-managed company?Is the stock selling at a reasonable price?



The second principle was added and emphasized in the 1980s and '90s.
What Is the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (Nareit)?  

The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (Nareit) is a trade association that represents the interests of real estate investment trusts (REITs) and other public companies that deal with the U.S. real estate market.



Nareit was established in 1960 as a result of changes in U.S. legislation that opened up real estate investing to smaller investors. The organization is based in Washington, D.C., and advocates on behalf of the REIT-based and real estate investment industry with investors and policymakers. It publishes research and regularly holds educational events and conferences.





Key Takeaways

Nareit represents many different aspects of the REIT and real estate investment industry.The organization advocates in the U.S. and foreign governments, helping shape policies and legislation.Membership is open to individuals and corporations, although there are some requirements such as being a professional in the industry, investing in REITs, and others.Nareit represents a broad mix of REITs that own trillions of dollars of real estate assets.Being a member of Nareit means having access to industry-leading insights, access to member-only events, and certain savings products.


   Understanding National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (Nareit)  

Nareit is a trade organization based in Washington, D.C. It represents the interests of the real estate and real estate investment industry, including commercial equity REITs, mortgage REITs, REITs traded on major stock exchanges, public non-listed REITs, and private REITs. According to the organization, REITs own over $3.5 trillion in gross assets across the United States.



The organization's mission is to advocate for REIT-based real estate investment with policymakers and the global investment community and ensure that everyone has the opportunity to benefit from real estate investment. It also lobbies for the industry by representing its interests to American and global legislators and policymakers.



Nareit represents over 200 member organizations that collaborate to make investing in income-producing real estate simpler and more accessible through the purchase of stock. Individuals can access comprehensive industry data that is regularly produced and published by Nareit. They can also attend Nareit-sponsored events and conferences about the real estate industry and the performance of member REITs.



Nareit is run by an independent executive board, which is responsible for keeping the organization on track toward its goals, including budgeting and planning. Board members come from a variety of areas within the industry and many of them head REITs and other real estate investment companies. Members of the organization's executive team, which is led by the president and chief executive officer (CEO), are also part of the executive board.






Nareit is made up of a community of industry professionals, academics, and companies that work together to promote the real estate industry and REITs.


   Special Considerations  

Nareit is partnered with several foreign entities in its political endeavors. The most prominent relationship is with the FTSE Group and the European Public Real Estate Association. These groups established the FTSE EPRA/Nareit Global Real Estate Index Series, which highlights general trends in eligible real estate equities worldwide.



In October 2016, Nareit created a Real Estate Sustainability Council to increase its focus on promoting sustainability and environmental, social, and governance (ESG) best practices.


   Functions of National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (Nareit)  
  Advocacy  

Nareit functions as an advocate for REITs and public real estate companies, representing them in legislative matters as well as matters of public policy.



A large part of what it does is to inform the investing community about REITs, their purpose, and how these investments are managed. Nareit works to educate the community domestically and internationally, even extending its efforts to include governments.



The organization operates at the highest levels of the U.S. and other governments, working with them in real estate legislation and policy decisions.


  Membership  

Individuals and corporations can become members of Nareit. Some of the benefits for corporate members include exclusive access to investors, increased visibility, advocacy across all levels of government, access to bleeding-edge real estate research, and savings and events only available to members.



Individual members need to be stakeholders in the REIT industry. With over 1,200 members, Nareit's individual membership receives access to investment research, members savings, and visibility enhancement. Individual membership is not limited to REIT owners and can include the professionals who support, service, and invest in REITs.






Corporations must be REIT-based in the U.S., a REIT in a country with REIT legislation, or a listed real estate company in order to become a member of Nareit.


  Research and Outreach  

Nareit is the leading producer and sponsor of research, publications, and conferences on REIT investment, and also publishes news, data, and industry perspectives. For instance, Nareit publishes:



Real Estate Investment SmartBrief, a daily executive news summaryREIT: Real Estate Investment Today, a bi-monthly magazine focused on the REIT approach to real estate investmentREITWatch, which is a monthly publication that provides a statistical look at the industry



It also compiles a group of indexes, which provide real-time and monthly updates on publicly-traded REITs, equity REITs, and mortgage REITs.



The organization also honors the achievements and contributions of its members and industry professionals with the annual Investor CARE (Communications & Reporting Excellence) Awards for corporate excellence in investor relationships, Leader in the Light Awards for member companies demonstrating superior sustainability practices, and the Leadership and Industry Achievement Awards for outstanding contributions to the industry.


   History of National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (Nareit)  

On Sept. 14, 1960, President Dwight D. Eisenhower signed legislation that created a new approach to income-producing real estate investment. The move would help smaller investors take advantage of investing in the real estate market something that was generally only available for large, commercial entities. The National Association of Real Estate was incorporated the next day as a way to represent REITs and real estate-based investment companies.



The organization was known in the industry as NAREIT until 2017 when it was rebranded as Nareit. The organization said it rebranded to reflect changes within the industry, notably "a new era for our industry defined by the introduction of the new GICS Real Estate Sector and the growth and globalization of the industry." According to Nareit, changing its brand identity allowed it to educate the investment industry about REITs.




Are REITs a Good Investment?
REITs can be a good investment depending on the investor's individual goals and tolerance for risk. REITs, for many, can be a good way to invest in the real estate industry while remaining liquid and without the overhead of the classic real estate investment: the home purchase. REITs typically pay substantial dividends but can fluctuate in prices rapidly.




What Is the Average Return on a REIT?
There is no average return measurement for REITs primarily because they operate in different sectors. For example, a REIT with broad exposure to all commercial real estate may fare better if there was a dip in mortgage income. In this scenario, a broader REIT would outperform a REIT invested in residential mortgages.




Do REITs Do Well During a Recession?
A REIT can perform well during a recession if it invests in real estate holdings that are not affected by the market downturn. Some areas of real estate can outperform the general market during a recession. But REITs would underperform compared to a market index (such as the S&P500) if a recession hit the real estate sector particularly hard.




Are REITs Better Than Stocks?
REITs can be better than stocks in some ways, and less attractive in others. Investors typically don't choose one or the other. Instead, they often opt for a combination of both and consider their REIT exposure their exposure to the real estate market without thinking about the general equities market. Although they are traded on the same exchanges, REITs serve different purposes, and a REIT is closer to an exchange traded fund (ETF) than an individual company's stock.




What Are the Disadvantages of a REIT?
Some of the disadvantages of a REIT are high expense ratios, lack of investor input, and lack of owner-initiated property enhancement. Investors trade the higher liquidity of a REIT with owning a property outright. But that investor can't make enhancements, such as adding a new roof or electrical to enhance the property's value. REITs themselves can sometimes suffer from a lack of market liquidity, but those issues tend to be reserved for smaller REITs that are not heavily traded.
What Is the National Association of Realtors (NAR)?  

The National Association of Realtors (NAR) is a national organization of real estate brokers, known as realtors, created to promote the real estate profession and foster professional behavior in its members. The association has its own code of ethics to which it requires its members to adhere.﻿﻿



As of 2021, the NAR has over 1 million members worldwide. It has 54 state associations (including D.C., Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico) as well as more than 1,600 national and international affiliate organizations.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

The National Association of Realtors (NAR) is the professional organization for real estate agents and other industry professionals in the U.S. and abroad.Members, known as realtors, have access to a variety of benefits and tools designed to enhance their real estate businesses.The organization also works to protect private property rights, promote home ownership, and lobbies to maintain reasonable credit and other standards at the federal level.


   Understanding the National Association of Realtors  

The NAR's membership increased to just under 1.4 million. It claims to be the largest trade association, comprising real estate brokers, salespeople, property managers, appraisers, counselors as well as others in the real estate industry. Members belong to one or more of the 1,200 local associations/boards and 54 state and territory associations of Realtors or to one of 87 cooperating associations in 66 countries.﻿﻿



The NAR was founded as the National Association of Real Estate Exchanges in May 1908, with 120 members, 19 Boards (local associations) and one state association. Its objective was to standardize real estate practices and to “unite the real estate men of America for the purpose of effectively exerting a combined influence upon matters affecting real estate interests.” The NAR Code of Ethics was adopted in 1913.﻿﻿



Over the years, the association’s name changed several times until, in 1972, it became the National Association of Realtors. Today, its mission is “to help its members become more profitable and successful,”﻿﻿ by "influencing and shaping the real estate industry";﻿﻿ advocating for "the right to own, use and transfer real property";﻿﻿ and developing standards for efficient and ethical real estate business practices.


   Who Can Join  

The principal of a real estate firm must join a realtor association before any non-principal in the firm can join (principals can be sole proprietors, partners in a partnership, corporate officers or branch-office managers acting on behalf of a principal). After the principal has joined a realtor association, all agents, brokers and appraisers who are licensed or affiliated with the principal have the option of joining as members of the association. (If the principal does not join a realtor association, none of the individuals affiliated with the principal can become realtor members of the association.) Members of local associations are automatically given membership in the state and national associations. For a list of local and state associations of realtors, see the NAR website.



Annual NAR membership dues ($150 per member for 2020 and 2021, with a $35 assessment for the NAR's Consumer Advertising Campaign) are billed through the members’ local associations and are pro-rated monthly for new members. In accordance with the Tax Reform Act of 1993, any portion of dues attributable to lobbying and political activities at the State and Federal levels is considered nondeductible for income tax purposes – this portion is disclosed annually to members. 



NAR members receive a variety of benefits, business tools, real estate market data, research and statistics, educational opportunities and discount programs geared towards helping real estate professionals succeed in business. For example, only realtors have access to the Realtors Property Resource (RPR), a national database of information on every property in the U.S., built from public-record and assessment data. It includes facts on zoning, permits, mortgage and lien data, schools and a large database of foreclosures.






The use of the realtor trademark by agents is heavily regulated by the NAR which issues strict rules and guidelines.


   NAR Research Division  

There is a research division that collects and disseminates real estate data and conducts economic analysis. Delivery of this information takes place via press releases, reports, presentations, and daily blog posts about the overall economy and housing market.



Well-known national and regional housing statistics include existing home sales, pending home sales index and the housing affordability index. The organization releases existing home sales monthly, providing national and regional price and volume statistics. The data is for the past 12 months along with annual totals going back three years. It is broken down into existing single-family homes, condos and co-ops. The first week of each month, the NAR releases the pending home sales index, considered a leading indicator for housing activity. The index measures signed real estate contracts for existing single-family homes, condos and co-ops.﻿﻿ The housing affordability index measures whether a typical family earns enough income to qualify for a mortgage loan on an average home based on recent monthly price and income data.﻿﻿



The NAR also provides a host of research reports, including a monthly report on foot traffic, which attempts to predict future sales trends. Others are local market reports, which analyze a host of data, and a confidence index.


   Strategic Plan and Benefits  

The NAR annually updates its strategic plan to reflect the challenges and opportunities that the association and the real estate industry expect to confront during the next three to five years.﻿﻿



A member of the National Association of Realtors has access to certain benefits, business tools, real estate market data, educational opportunities and discount programs. The National Association of Realtors also has an educational program, including an online ethics course.
What Is the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD)?  

The National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD) was a self-regulatory organization of the securities industry and a predecessor of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA). It was responsible for the operation and regulation of the NASDAQ stock market and over-the-counter markets. It also administrated exams for investment professionals, such as the Series 7 exam. The NASD was charged with watching over the NASDAQ’s market operations. 





Key Takeaways


A predecessor of the FINRA, the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD) was a regulatory organization that oversaw the securities industry, including the NASDAQ.
NASD played a leading part in the management of stock trading in the market from 1939 to 2007.
The NASD was a predecessor of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), which was formed in 2007.



   Understanding the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD)  

The NASD was founded in 1939, under provisions of the 1938 Maloney Act amendments to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. It was also the leading founder of the NASDAQ stock market, which was established in 1971. Operating as an overseer of stock market operations for market activity and the NASDAQ under the overall supervision of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the NASD played a leading part in the management of stock trading in the market from 1939 to 2007. In that year, it merged with the regulation, enforcement, and arbitration arm of the New York Stock Exchange to form FINRA.





2007

The year NASD merged with the regulation, enforcement, and arbitration arm of the New York Stock Exchange to form the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA).


   NASD vs. FINRA  

FINRA is an independent regulatory entity that functions similar to the NASD, overseeing all stock market operations in the United States. Its functions include the oversight of all brokerage firms, branch offices, and securities representatives. FINRA is monitored by the SEC and authorized to enforce the rules and regulations of the SEC.



It provides for and facilitates the licensing of securities representatives dealing in all aspects of the market. Its licensing requirements are developed in conjunction with the regulations and oversight of the SEC. Leading FINRA licenses include the Series 3, 6, and 7. In addition to licensing for individuals and firms, FINRA also provides ongoing educational seminars and monitors individuals and firms active in the financial markets for regulatory compliance.



As the leading regulatory entity in the securities markets, FINRA manages the market’s Central Registration Depository (CRD), which includes records of securities activity for all firms and securities representatives trading in the market. FINRA is also the lead arbitrator for all financial market trading disputes. In the financial markets, arbitration is the leading procedure for resolutions in dispute between entities and trading representatives. FINRA facilitates arbitration proceedings, which are similar to formal court cases but have lower costs. FINRA arbitration panels are responsible for issuing final rulings on arbitration cases.



FINRA collaborates with the North American Securities Administrators Association (NASAA), which oversees the licensing requirements of three key market licenses: the Series 63, 65, and 66.
What is the National Association of State Boards of Accountancy?  

The National Association of State Boards of Accountancy (NASBA) is a nonprofit group that serves the 55 state and U.S. territory boards of accountancy, which are responsible for overseeing the accountancy profession in the United States and administering the Uniform CPA Examination.﻿﻿



Public accountancy is regulated at the state level, with each state maintaining an independent board of accountancy that defines and upholds standards.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

The National Association of State Boards of Accountancy (NASBA) serves the 55 state and U.S. territory boards of accountancy.﻿﻿Contrary to popular belief, the NASBA does not administer the Uniform CPA Examination, which all accountants must pass to become a licensed CPA.﻿﻿However, the NASBA does run services to help CPAs port their license from one state to another.﻿﻿


   Understanding the National Association of State Boards of Accountancy  

The National Association of State Boards of Accountancy (NASBA) was founded in 1908 to bring together best practices of the profession for the protection of the public that relies on sound financial reporting.﻿﻿



NASBA recognizes that a well-functioning economy is built on trust, and without accurate and understandable accounting, this trust is compromised. A core mission of NASBA is maintaining public trust in the profession in the wake of accounting scandals at companies such as Enron, WorldCom, and others.﻿﻿



The association also monitors and provides feedback for legislative and regulatory issues facing the accounting trade.﻿﻿



NASBA runs training and education programs for accountants for the certified public accountant (CPA) exam. Contrary to popular belief, the NASBA does not develop content or administer the exam. That job belongs to the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA), which takes input from the NASBA and state boards of accountancy.﻿﻿



However, an important function that the group carries out with regard to CPAs is licensing. Because the license to practice accountancy is granted at the state level, a CPA licensed in one state has to obtain a new license if they move to a different state. The NASBA runs the National Qualification Appraisal Service, so that CPAs licensed in one state may have their qualifications recognized in another state.﻿﻿



NASBA holds regional and national meetings each year, publishes comment letters and white papers, and disseminates its own annual report. As of April 2021, the association's board consisted of five officers, eight regional directors and nine directors-at-large.﻿﻿
What Is the National Average Wage Index (NAWI)?  

The National Average Wage Index (NAWI) is a measure of U.S. wage trends calculated annually by the Social Security Administration (SSA). The NAWI is dependent on income subject to federal income taxes and contributions to deferred compensation plans.



The SSA primarily uses the National Average Wage Index to index retirement and insurance benefits in the United States. It is also used to update several factors in the operation of the Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI) program.





Key Takeaways

The National Average Wage Index (NAWI) tracks wage growth among American workers as a measure of inflation.The NAWI is computed by the Social Security Administration each year in order to make adjustments to Social Security benefits and contributions, which are pegged to inflation.For purposes of Social Security benefits and taxation, a person's wages are indexed to the NAWI the year they turn 60, even though they are not eligible for benefits until age 62.The 2021 National Wage Index is calculated by multiplying the 2020 average wage by the percentage change in average wages from 2020 to 2021.


   Understanding the National Average Wage Index (NAWI)  

The National Average Wage Index provides insight into the direction of wage trends and may alert policymakers to wage inflation, which might impact the Federal Reserve’s decision to raise interest rates. Raising interest rates typically has a negative effect on bond and equity markets and slows inflation. Alternately, if wage inflation is decreasing, the Federal Reserve may lower rates, which helps stimulate the economy and labor market.



So-called wage push inflation is an overall rise in the cost of goods that results from a rise in wages. To maintain corporate profits after an increase in wages, employers must increase the prices they charge for the goods and services they provide. The overall increased cost of goods and services has a circular effect on the wage increase; eventually, as goods and services in the market overall increase, higher wages will be needed to compensate for the increased prices of consumer goods.


   Example of a National Average Wage Index Calculation  

The 2021 National Average Wage Index is calculated by multiplying the previous year's NAWI by the change in average wages from the previous two years (based on the SSA’s average wage data).



For example, the 2021 NAWI would be calculated by multiplying the 2020 NAWI by the change in the average wage from 2020 to 2021. The SSA website lists the NAWI levels between 1951 and the current year.





$60,575.07

The national average wage index for 2021, 8.89% higher than it was in 2020.


   National Average Wage Index and Wage Indexing  

Wage indexing is used by Social Security to adjust an individual’s earning history to inflation. An individual is first eligible for retirement benefits at age 62. However, earnings are indexed to the average wage level of the year the individual turned 60. Therefore, a 62-year-old individual would have their earnings indexed to the average wage level two years prior to eligibility, or age 60. From age 60, the indexing factor equals one. To calculate the indexing factor of a specific year before an individual turns 60, divide the average wage for the year they turn 60 by the average wage of the specific year.



For example, suppose an individual's 1990 earnings were $30,000. In 2020, the individual turned 62, and the NAWI for 2018 (age 60) was $52,145.80. The 2018 NAWI is divided by the 1990 NAWI ($52,145.80 / $21,027.98) to give an index factor of 2.48. The individual’s 1990 earnings are then multiplied by the profit factor, providing that year’s inflation-adjusted earnings of $74,400 = ($30,000 x 2.48).



As wage indexing uses the NAWI, an individual cannot work out the exact amount of Social Security they are going to receive until they turn 62. They could estimate the NAWI by taking average wage inflation into account.


   The Bottom Line  

Calculated yearly by the Social Security Administration (SSA), the National Average Wage Index (NAWI) tracks U.S. wage growth and trends. Social Security uses the NAWI to calculate benefits, and policymakers use the index to help make monetary decisions, such as increasing or decreasing rates.



Correction—Feb. 5, 2023: This article previously misstated the age at which earnings are indexed and how the index factor is calculated.
What Is a National Bank?  

In the United States, a national bank is a commercial bank. The comptroller of the currency of the U.S. Treasury will charter a national bank. This institution will function as a member bank of the Federal Reserve and is an investing member of its district Federal Reserve Bank. National banks may facilitate the auction process of U.S. Treasury bonds. It is essential that they are members of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC).



Internationally, "national bank" is synonymous with "central bank," or a bank controlled by the national government of a country. Central banks set monetary policies within national economies.





Key Takeaways

In the U.S., a national bank is a commercial bank chartered by the U.S. Treasury.Internationally, national banks are controlled by the international governments themselves and are also called "central banks."National banks may facilitate daily transactions with their local Federal Reserve Bank.


   How National Banks Work  

National banks in both the U.S. and worldwide have an important role in shaping a country's financial system. Having an efficient banking system, whether through a central bank or the U.S. Federal Reserve, is critical for financial stability especially during times of recession or weathering downturns in the economy.



National banks may facilitate daily transactions with their local Federal Reserve Bank (also called a Fed), such as Fed bank wires. National banks must generate call reports to the Fed each quarter and ensure these reports are made public. As mentioned above, national banks in the United States are typically commercial banks, the largest of which include Chase Bank, Bank of America, Wells Fargo, Citibank. U.S. Bank, PNC Bank, Capital One, and others.


   History of the First U.S. National Bank  

Alexander Hamilton, the first Secretary of the Treasury, was instrumental in the formation of the first national bank in the United States. Located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania within Independence National Historical Park, the structure was completed in 1797 and stands today as a National Historic Landmark. It was one of four major financial innovations at the time, including the U.S. government’s assumption of the state war debts, the establishment of a mint, and the imposition of a federal excise tax. Hamilton’s aim with these measures was to establish financial order, national credit, and resolve the issue of fiat currency.


   Examples of National Banks Outside the United States  

Two examples of national banks outside of the United States today include the National Australia Bank (NAB) and the Swiss National Bank.



NAB counts as one of the "big four" banks in Australia, including the Commonwealth Bank (CBA), Australia and New Zealand Banking Group (ANZ), and Westpac (WBC). National Australia Bank has over 1,500 branches, with major subsidiaries Clydesdale and Yorkshire banks in the United Kingdom.



Meanwhile, the Swiss National Bank is responsible for setting Switzerland's monetary policy and issuing Swiss franc banknotes. In this sense, the Swiss National Bank aims to ensure price stability and a steady supply of cash in Switzerland, allowing liquidity for the money market when needed.
What Is the National Best Bid and Offer (NBBO)?  

The National Best Bid and Offer (NBBO) is a quote that reports the highest bid price and lowest ask (offered) price in a security, sourced from among all available exchanges or trading venues. The NBBO, therefore, represents the tightest composite bid-ask spread in a security.



The Securities Exchange Commission's (SEC) Regulation NMS requires brokers to trade at the best available ask and bid price when buying and selling securities for customers and guarantee at least the NBBO quoted price to its customers at the time of a trade.





Key Takeaways

The NBBO shows the best available (lowest) ask price and best available (highest) bid price available to customers from multiple exchanges.The SEC's Regulation NMS requires brokers to guarantee at least the NBBO quoted price to its customers at the time of a trade.The NBBO is calculated and disseminated by Security Information Processors (SIP).While it ensures that all investors receive the best possible prices when executing trades, NBBO may not always reflect the most up-to-date data, resulting in trades that may not match investor price expectations.


   Understanding the National Best Bid and Offer (NBBO)  

The NBBO is calculated and disseminated by Security Information Processors (SIP) as part of the National Market System Plan (NMSP), which is used to process security prices. There are two SIPs responsible for this task. The Consolidated Quotation System (CQS) gives the NBBO for securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), NY-ARCA, and NY-MKT, whereas the Unlisted Trading Privileges (UTP) Quote Data Feed gives the NBBO for securities listed on the Nasdaq.



The NBBO updates throughout the day with the highest and lowest offers for a security among all exchanges and market makers. The lowest ask price and the highest bid price are displayed in the NBBO and are not required to come from the same exchange—the best bid and ask price from a single exchange or market maker is called the “best bid and offer,” rather than the NBBO. Dark pools and other alternative trading systems may not always appear in these results, given the less transparent nature of their businesses.



Traders that want to execute orders larger than those available through the NBBO should use an exchange or market maker’s “depth of book” data or Level II market maker screens to identify the other potential bid and ask prices that they could use to execute their order.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of the NBBO  

The NBBO helps ensure that all investors receive the best possible price when executing trades through their broker without worrying about aggregating quotes from multiple exchanges or market makers before placing a trade. This helps level the playing field for retail traders, who may not have the resources to always seek out the best prices across multiple exchanges.



The drawback is that the NBBO system may not reflect the most up-to-date data, which means that investors may not get the prices they were anticipating when trades are actually executed. This is a major concern for high-frequency traders (HFT), who rely on quotes to make their strategies work since they profit from extremely small price changes at volume.



Regulation NMS is also difficult to enforce because of the fast pace of trading and the lack of recorded NBBO prices. This makes it difficult for a trader to prove whether or not they received the NBBO price on a given trade.



Investors should keep in mind that the prices may be stale in some cases and that not all prices may be reflected, since dark pools and other alternative trading systems may not have listed bid/ask prices.


   NBBO and High-Frequency Trading (HFT)  

High-frequency traders generally invest in specialized infrastructure in order to directly connect to exchanges and process orders faster than other brokerages. In effect, they do not rely on SIP data for their buy/offer bids and take advantage of the latency between calculation of the NBBO and its publishing to mint profits. Research has focused on whether this enables them to front-run others.



According to a 2013 University of Michigan study, traders profited by as much as $21 billion by taking advantage of this latency. "By anticipating future NBBO, an HFT algorithm can capitalize on cross-market disparities before they are reflected in the public price quote, in effect jumping ahead of incoming orders to pocket a small but sure proﬁt. Naturally, this precipitates an arms race, as an even faster trader can calculate an NBBO to see the future of NBBO, and so on," the study's authors wrote.


   Example of the NBBO  

Suppose a broker receives the following orders to offer to sell stock for company ABC:



200 shares for $1,000300 shares for $1,500100 shares for $1800350 shares for $1,600



At the same time, the following are available bid prices for the same company's stock:



100 shares for $900200 shares for $800150 shares for $950



The NBBO for ABC is $950/$1,000 because they are the best bid/offer prices available to traders within the given range.
What Is the National Bureau of Economic Research?  

The National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) is a private, non-profit, non-partisan research organization with an aim is to promote a greater understanding of how the economy works. It disseminates economic research among public policymakers, business professionals, and the academic community.





Key Takeaways

The NBER is a private, non-profit research organization.The focus areas for its research are: new statistical measurements, estimating quantitative models of economic behavior, assessing the effects of public policy on the U.S. economy, and projecting the effect of alternative policy proposals.NBER's research papers are produced quickly and released as "working papers." They function as talking points among economists interested in new developments within their field.


   Understanding National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)  

Hundreds of the nation's leading scholars in economics and business are also NBER researchers who focus on four types of empirical research: developing new statistical measurements, estimating quantitative models of economic behavior, assessing the effects of public policies on the U.S. economy, and projecting the effects of alternative policy proposals. As of 2021, thirty-eight current or past NBER board members and research affiliates have been awarded the Nobel Prize in Economics.



According to the organization, "The National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) is a private, nonpartisan organization that facilitates cutting-edge investigation and analysis of major economic issues. It disseminates research findings to academics, public and private-sector decision-makers, and the public by posting more than 1,200 working papers and convening more than 120 scholarly conferences each year."






The NBER officially declared an end to the economic expansion in February of 2020 as the U.S. fell into a recession during that year's economic crisis.


   ﻿Role of NBER In Modern Economics  

The more than 1,600 economists who are NBER researchers are the leading scholars in their fields. Most NBER-affiliated researchers are either Faculty Research Fellows (FRFs) or Research Associates (RAs). Faculty Research Fellows are typically junior scholars. Research Associates, whose appointments are approved by the NBER Board of Directors, hold tenured positions at their home institutions.



The NBER is supported by research grants from government agencies and private foundations, by investment income, and by contributions from individuals and corporations.



The group took in $32 million for the year ended June 30, 2020, according to its financial statement.



The economist Paul Krugman, writing in the New York Times, said NBER is "best described, I’d say, as the old-boy network of economics made flesh. There are a couple of NBER offices, but they’re small; what the organization mainly consists of is its associates and what they do. In many sub-fields of economics, just about anyone well-known in the profession is an NBER research associate; it’s normal for these associates to release new research as NBER working papers.



The function of these papers, in turn, is to get research out quickly so other economists can discuss it (which includes criticizing it). For working economists, the NBER WP series provides what amounts to one-stop shopping for new developments in their field."
What Is the National Commodity and Derivatives Exchange (NCDEX)?  

The National Commodity and Derivatives Exchange (NCDEX) is a commodities exchange dealing primarily in agricultural commodities in India. The NCDEX was established in 2003, and its headquarters are in Mumbai.



Many of India’s leading financial institutions have a stake in the NCDEX. As of 2022, significant shareholders included Life Insurance Corp. of India (LIC), the National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. (NSE), and the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD).





Key Takeaways

The National Commodity and Derivatives Exchange (NCDEX) is a commodities exchange dealing primarily in agricultural commodities in India.The NCDEX is located in Mumbai but has offices across the country to facilitate trade.Exchanges like the NCDEX have also played a key role in improving Indian agricultural practices.Barley, wheat, and soybeans are some of the leading agricultural commodities traded on the NCDEX.


   Understanding the NCDEX  

The NCDEX is one of the top commodity exchanges in India based on value and the number of contracts. It is second only to the Multi Commodity Exchange (MCX), which is focused on energy and metals. The NCDEX is located in Mumbai but has offices across the country to facilitate trade.



As of 2022, the NCDEX featured futures contracts on 23 agricultural commodities and options on seven agricultural commodities. It also offers clearing services for derivatives contracts traded on the exchange.



India is a world power in terms of agriculture. It is one of the largest producers of wheat, rice, milk, and many types of fruits and vegetables. The size of India’s agriculture sector is somewhat hidden internationally because the populous nation consumes much of what it produces. However, increasing farm-level productivity is making India’s strength in agriculture more apparent. The NCDEX plays a critical role in India’s growing agriculture sector.






An independent board of directors runs the NCDEX, and they have no direct interests in agriculture.


   Benefits of the NCDEX  

In establishing and maintaining an online futures market for crops, the NCDEX has helped increase market transparency. The exchange assists Indian farmers in the price discovery process. The NCDEX enables them to price their goods more accurately even if they are not active in the futures market.



Intermediaries, who are known as commission agents, previously controlled much of the market information in India. The introduction of online commodity exchanges like the NCDEX reduces the cost of price data for farmers by cutting out the middlemen.



Exchanges like the NCDEX have also played a key role in improving Indian agricultural practices. By standardizing the quality specifications of various products through contracts, the NCDEX has raised quality awareness. Farmers in India increasingly focus on testing requirements and enacting farming practices that result in consistently high-quality crops.



The NCDEX is still young by some standards, but traders and large market participants are already using contracts to hedge and speculate. This trend is likely to continue as India’s agricultural sector grows in terms of productivity and exports.


   Examples of Commodities on the NCDEX  

Barley, wheat, and soybeans are some of the leading agricultural commodities traded on the NCDEX. The exchange also hosts some contracts that are global benchmarks for commodities like coriander, as well as commodities such as steel, cotton, palm oil, and guar. The NCDEX also manages three agricultural commodities indexes: one based on soybeans, one on guar, and one a composite of several agricultural products.



NCDEX is seen as a significant source of information on spices, as India is the leading producer and consumer of spices in the world.




What is the difference between the National Commodity and Derivatives Exchange (NCDEX) and the Multi Commodity Exchange (MCX)?
The National Commodity and Derivatives Exchange (NCDEX) and the Multi Commodity Exchange (MCX) are both electronic commodities exchanges in India. They are separate businesses and compete with one another. The NCDEX specializes more in agricultural commodities, while the MCX is better known for its trading in metals and energy products.




How can I trade on the NCDEX?
To access NCDEX markets, you would need to have an account at an authorized broker who is connected to the exchange in India. These include Angel One, Sharekhan, Edelweiss, and Upstox, among others. Note that Zerodha, a large Indian broker, does not effect trades on the NCDEX, only on the MCX.




What are the most active listings on the NCDEX?
While these are subject to change, the most active products on the NCDEX are currently contracts on cottonseed oil, guar seed, and castor oil.
What Is the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA)?  

The National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) is an agency of the United States federal government. The federal government created the NCUA to monitor federal credit unions across the country.





Key Takeaways

Credit unions and banks offer similar financial products, like mortgages, auto loans, and savings accounts, but credit unions are not-for-profit institutions, unlike banks. The National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) oversees the quality and operations of thousands of federal credit unions. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) is the equivalent of the NCUA for banks. 


   Understanding the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA)  

The NCUA is a federal agency founded in 1970 and headquartered in Alexandria, Virginia. A three-member board heads the agency, all of whom are appointed directly by the president of the United States. The agency currently monitors over 9,500 federally insured credit unions that service over 80 million customer accounts.



The NCUA runs the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund (NCUSIF), which is one of the agency’s most massive responsibilities. The NCUSIF uses tax dollars to insure the deposits at all federal credit unions. Most NCUA insured institutions are federal and state-chartered credit unions and savings banks. Accounts insured in NCUA insured institutions are savings, share drafts or checking, money markets, share certificates or CDs, Individual Retirement Accounts, and Revocable Trust Accounts.


   The National Credit Union Administration vs. the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation  

The NCUA is equivalent to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or FDIC. The FDIC is an independent federal agency that insures deposits in U.S. banks in the event of bank failures. Created in 1933 in response to the Great Depression, the FDIC maintains public confidence and encourages stability in the financial system through the promotion of sound banking practices.






The National Credit Union Association (NCUA) insures credit unions to protect their members' funds in savings, checking, money markets, and retirement accounts.



The FDIC aims to prevent run on the bank scenarios, which devastated many banks after the stock market crash of 1929, ultimately leading to the Great Depression. With the threat of their banks closing, small groups of worried customers rushed to withdraw their money. After fears spread, a stampede of customers, seeking to do the same, ultimately resulted in many banks being unable to support withdrawal requests. Those who were first to withdraw their money from a troubled bank would benefit, whereas those who waited risked losing their savings overnight. Before FDIC, there was no guarantee for the safety of deposits beyond the confidence in the bank's stability.



Insurance on deposits in extremely important in preventing future crises. Bank liquidity is like oxygen—if it gets cut off, there is a ripple effect in the system.



Practically all banks offer FDIC coverage, and consumers face less uncertainty regarding their deposits. In case of bank failure, the FDIC covers deposits up to $250,000; as a result, banks have a better opportunity to address problems under controlled circumstances, without triggering a run on the bank. The FDIC covers checking accounts, savings accounts, certificates of deposit, and money market accounts. FDIC insurance does not cover mutual funds, annuities, life insurance policies, stocks, or bonds.



The significant difference between the FDIC and the NCUA is the former deals only with credit institutions, and the latter uses the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund; the FDIC uses the Deposit Insurance Fund.
What Is National Currency?  

A national currency is a legal tender issued by a country's central bank or monetary authority. It is typically the predominant medium of exchange for purchasing goods and services. In the United States, the dollar is the primary form of currency, backed by the full faith and credit of the government and the Federal Reserve.



Large currency bases like the dollar play an instrumental role in other regions of the world. For example, commodity prices are quoted in U.S. dollars (USD) despite trading in countries outside of the United States. Some countries peg their national currency to the U.S. dollar to keep inflation aligned with expectations and maintain a stable economy. 





Key Takeaways

A national currency is a currency issued by a government's central bank or monetary authority.It is generally the dominant currency accepted for exchange within that country.Some countries recognize other countries' currencies like Ecuador and El Salvador, which accept the U.S. dollar for the exchange of goods and services.


   How a National Currency Works  

A national currency, such as the U.S. dollar, the Euro, and the Japanese Yen (JPY), is recognized as the world's most widely accepted type of currency. Each has a global status as a reliable reserve currency with minimal risk of collapsing.



As a result, most foreign transactions are conducted in one of the three currencies. Some countries have also adopted other nations' currencies as their own. Examples of countries that make use of another country's currency are parts of Latin America, regions like Ecuador and El Salvador, which recognize and accept the U.S. dollar for the exchange of goods and services.



Some countries like the United Arab Emirates peg or fix their currency rates to the U.S. dollar.


   Trading National Currencies  

Currency is not only used to buy goods and services. It is also a store of value and can be traded and exchanged as a financial instrument similar to stocks, bonds, cryptocurrency, and any other asset classes.



The currency market, or forex (FX), is the largest marketplace in the world and continues to expand each year and currency trading has a longer window of time than stock trading. It takes place 24 hours a day, five days a week, but more often than not, a national currency will only actively trade during its country's regular market hours.



The U.S. dollar may record a large volume or wild fluctuations between 9:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. when the market opens and closes. If we compare FX trading to crypto trading, its window of time is less because crypto trades 24 hours a day, seven days a week.



Recent moves by a few companies have extended stock trading time. in March 2022, Robinhood added 4 hours to stock trading for its clients.



Currency trading is often performed in pairs, meaning you trade one currency with another. That said, greater adoption and creation of exchange-traded funds (ETF) have made it possible to trade individual currencies.




How Many Currencies Are Pegged to the United States Dollar?
23 currencies are pegged to the United States Dollar, including the Lebanese pound and the Venezuelan bolívar.




When Was a National Currency Established in the United States?
On February 25, 1863, President Lincoln signed The National Currency Act into law which established the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), charged with responsibility for organizing and administering a system of nationally chartered banks and a uniform national currency.




Who Maintains Currency in the United States?
The U.S. Federal Reserve controls and maintains the supply of money in the United States.


   The Bottom Line  

A national currency is a legal tender issued by a country's central bank or monetary authority and the mode of exchange for purchasing goods and services. In the United States, the dollar is the primary form of currency and is controlled by the Federal Reserve. The National Currency Act of 1863 officially established the national currency of the United States.
What Is the National Futures Association (NFA)?  

The National Futures Association (NFA) is an independent self-regulatory organization for the U.S. futures and derivatives markets. Designated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) as a registered futures association, the NFA's mandate is to safeguard the integrity of the derivatives markets, protect investors, and ensure that members fulfill their regulatory obligations.





Key Takeaways

The National Futures Association (NFA) is an independent self-regulatory organization for the U.S. futures and derivatives markets.Firms and individuals working in the futures and derivatives industry pay membership dues and must uphold the rules imposed by the NFA.Failure to comply with the rules of the NFA could mean fines or revocation of NFA membership.The NFA operates at no cost to the taxpayer and is primarily financed by membership dues, fees, and assessments paid by members and other users of the derivatives markets.NFA's duties and functions include registration, compliance, and arbitration.


   Understanding the National Futures Association (NFA)  

The NFA operates at no cost to the taxpayer and is primarily financed by membership dues, fees, and assessments paid by members and other users of the derivatives markets.



NFA membership provides assurance to the investing public that all firms, intermediaries, and associates who conduct business with them on the U.S. futures exchanges must adhere to the same high standards of professional conduct. The firms working in the industry must pay membership dues to the NFA, which is how the NFA gets its money.



The NFA began operating in 1982, subsequent to the establishment of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) in 1974; this legislation also authorized the creation of registered futures exchanges, thereby facilitating the creation of a national self-regulatory organization.



In addition to regulation of the U.S. futures market, the NFA's duties and functions include registration, compliance, and arbitration. It combats fraud and abuse in the futures markets through a combination of registration requirements, compliance rules, strong enforcement authority, and real-time market surveillance.


   Responsibilities of the National Futures Association  

The following are the primary responsibilities of the NFA:



Registration and Membership: Firms that conduct derivatives business need to register with the CFTC and most also need to register with the NFA. The CFTC has given the NFA registration responsibilities.



Rulemaking: This involves deciding what are the industry's best practices and then mandating those practices for the whole industry.



Enforcement and Registration Actions: When rules are not obeyed, the NFA takes disciplinary action against members.



Member Education and Resources: The NFA provides educational resources to its members in order that they can understand the rules and regulations and how to abide by them.



Arbitration: Any futures or forex-related disputes can be resolved through the NFA's arbitration program.



Investor Protection: The NFA provides investors with resources before making any investment decisions.



Outreach Programs: The NFA offers a variety of training programs to entities on request.



Market Regulation: Designated contract makers (DCMs) and swap execution facilities (SEFs) can obtain regulatory services from the NFA.


   Member Firms  

All futures professionals required to register must undergo a background investigation before they may register.



As of June 30, 2022, the NFA has 3,107 members. Member categories are as follows:



Commodity Pool Operators (CPO): People or organizations that operate and solicit funds for a commodity pool.
Commodity Trading Advisors (CTA): People or organizations that advise clients on derivatives trades.
Futures Commission Merchants (FCM): An entity that accepts or solicits trades.
Introducing Brokers (IB): People or organizations that connect clients with a broker.
Retail Foreign Exchange Dealer (RFED): A counterparty to non-U.S. currency transactions.
Swap Dealers: Those who make a market for, and transact in, swaps as their business.
Exchanges: A marketplace where financial instruments are bought and sold.
Associates: Any individual that "solicits orders, customers or customer funds (or who supervises persons so engaged) on behalf of a futures commission merchant (FCM), retail foreign exchange dealer (RFED), introducing broker (IB), commodity trading advisor (CTA) or commodity pool operator (CPO)."
Major Swap Participants: An individual or entity whose outstanding swaps create "substantial counterparty exposure that could have serious adverse effects on the financial stability of the United States banking system or financial markets."



The NFA, as a self-regulatory organization, has the power to search for and implement what it believes are best practices for the industry. The NFA creates rules that its members must follow and has the power to impose fines or revoke the membership (which could shut down a business) of its members. It offers an arbitration process to help customers and businesses settle disputes or come to a resolution on allegations of wrong-doing.


   Membership Dues  

The NFA has many dues and fees and they vary depending on the type of member. For example, the membership dues for a Tier 1 swap dealer are $1.3 million whereas for a Tier 2 swap dealer the dues are $325,000. For an introducing broker, the dues are $750 and for an introducing broker swaps firm, the dues are $2,500. These are annual dues.






The financial requirement to register with the NFA is an adjusted net capital of $1 million and for a swap dealer it is $20 million.



If payment is late, there is a fee of $25. If dues are not paid within 30 days of the date they are payable, then membership is withdrawn.


   Real-World Example  

In 2019, based on complaints filed in 2018, East West Global LLC and two individuals at the firm were fined, and one of the individuals had their NFA membership revoked for five years.



The firm and the two individuals were charged for using deficient promotional material, deficient sales practices, and failing to meet the high standards of commercial honor, among several other charges.



One of the individuals was ordered jointly, along with the firm, and severally to pay a $75,000 fine. The firm was also ordered to fix the issues addressed in the complaint.



The other individual, following a settlement offer, agreed not to apply for NFA membership (or associate membership) for five years. After five years, if he reapplies for membership, he will need to immediately pay a $90,000 fine.




Who Does the NFA Regulate?
The NFA regulates all qualified brokers, futures merchants, commodity pool operators, swap dealers, exchanges, commodity trading advisors, and retail foreign exchange dealers that deal in the futures markets.




How Many Members Are in the NFA?
As of June 30, 2022, the NFA has 3,107 members.




Who Needs to Register With the NFA?
All qualified entities that deal in the futures markets need to register with the NFA. These include a variety of entities, such as brokers, futures merchants, commodity pool operators, swap dealers, exchanges, and commodity trading advisors.




How Do You Become a Member of the NFA?
To become a member of the NFA one needs to apply directly with the NFA. This is done through an electronic filing process.
What Is the National Housing Act?  

The National Housing Act was a piece of legislation passed by Congress in 1934 that was intended to strengthen the residential real estate market and promote homeownership. A cornerstone of the New Deal, the act established the Federal Housing Administration (FHA), which, by creating a federally guaranteed mortgage insurance program, allowed banks to issue lower-cost loans and make them more accessible to more people.





Key Takeaways


The National Housing Act of 1934 was an important piece of New Deal legislation intended to promote homeownership.
The National Housing Act established the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) and helped stabilize the housing market during the Great Depression.
Later incorporated into the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), the FHA guarantees mortgages issued by agency-approved lenders; as a result, FHA loans carry easier terms than traditional loans.
Though it made homeownership possible for low- and middle-income borrowers, the FHA also adopted rules that confirmed existing patterns of racial discrimination in lending and segregation in housing.
The National Housing Act introduced the concept of federal participation in home financing, paving the way for other acts and programs during economic crises.



   Understanding the National Housing Act  

The National Housing Act was one of the most important and lasting pieces of legislation to be enacted during the Great Depression of the 1930s, when the Franklin D. Roosevelt administration drafted and Congress passed a series of new laws expanding the power of the federal government to influence the American economy and American standard of living. Its primary purpose was to improve housing standards and conditions, provide a method of mutual mortgage insurance, and reduce foreclosures on family homes.



The housing market was in dire need of intervention during the Great Depression. In 1932, as many as 1,000 homeowners were defaulting on their mortgages every day, and by 1933, fully half of all mortgages in the United States were in arrears. Foreclosures were skyrocketing.



Home financing, in general, was not available to the typical American, as loan terms were onerous, with the typical mortgage requiring a 50% down payment and full repayment after five years. There was no amortization on the loans, either. In effect, they were basically balloon mortgages.



The law created two major agencies: the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp. (FSLIC), which insured savings and loans account holders’ deposits (subsumed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC) in 1989), and the FHA, which insured mortgage lenders (banks, thrifts, etc.) against the threat of borrower default on their loans, in return for a small fee. If a borrower defaulted, then the FHA would pay the lender a specified claim amount. To qualify, a lender had to meet certain specific qualifications. Over time, the term “FHA-approved lender” has become a mark of distinction for a bank.


  Impact of the National Housing Act  

The underlying idea behind the program was that by providing insurance to lenders, more individuals would ultimately qualify for mortgages—and buy homes. And it worked. Once mortgage lenders knew the government would guarantee their loans, it enabled them to offer more generous terms, like requiring just 20% down and repayment terms of 20 to 30 years. The FHA was successful at stabilizing and then stimulating national housing markets and extending housing credit to Americans for whom homeownership had once been out of reach.



Unlike many other New Deal programs, lawmakers in Washington saw a purpose for the FHA even after the worst effects of the Great Depression had dissipated. In 1965, the FHA was incorporated into the newly formed Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).






FHA loans—mortgages insured by the FHA and issued by an FHA-approved lender—still exist today. Designed for low- to moderate-income borrowers, they require a lower minimum down payment and lower credit scores than many conventional mortgages. They are especially popular with first-time homebuyers.


   Criticisms of the National Housing Act  

While the creation of the FHA was a boon to many Americans, it also left out many of them—particularly African Americans and other racial minorities.



In the 1930s, ’40s, and ’50s, the FHA focused its financing insurance efforts on new communities and suburbs being built on the edges of the country’s urban centers, while also refusing to lend to people wishing to buy homes in certain neighborhoods. In fact, the FHA would designate certain areas as “risky”—mainly on the basis of their racial component—and deny its federal mortgage backing on homes in these areas. This process was known as redlining because officials and lenders would literally draw a red line on a map around the neighborhoods in which they would not invest, due to demographics.



Black inner-city neighborhoods were the ones most likely to be redlined. But any quarter anywhere near a predominantly African-American community often got redlined, too.



And those new subdivisions and developments that the FHA was so eager to subsidize? It often did so with a requirement that none of the homes be sold to African Americans, or be sold to Whites only.


  Effects of FHA Redlining  

Redlining practices were sometimes justified on the grounds that the Black or minority neighborhoods were poorly maintained and hence, homes in them were bad investments. As for the new suburbs, the justification was that if African Americans bought homes in or near them, the property values of the homes would decline, putting loans at risk—an assertion that had little empirical evidence behind it.



The Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Fair Housing Act, passed in 1968, helped end these practices—at least in terms of official government policy. However, by locking millions of Americans out of homeownership for generations, they contributed significantly to the disparities and inequities in wealth and wealth building among races that exist today.


   Special Considerations  

The National Housing Act was the first—but not the last—government effort to stabilize the housing market during times of economic crisis. Here are some government programs that succeeded it.


  Housing and Economic Recovery Act (HERA)  

The Housing and Economic Recovery Act (HERA) was drafted to address the fallout from the subprime mortgage crisis of 2007–08. The act allowed the FHA to guarantee up to $300 billion in new 30-year fixed-rate mortgages for subprime borrowers. It allowed states to refinance subprime loans with mortgage revenue bonds and offered a refundable tax credit for qualified first-time homebuyers.



HERA was ultimately intended to renew public faith in the troubled government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs) that deal in home loans—namely Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. It created the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) to put these two major buyers and backers of mortgages under conservatorship.



Although it didn’t stave off the Great Recession, which ensued from the mortgage crisis, HERA did ultimately help restore confidence in the GSEs and set important precedents in low-income housing tax credits.


  HOPE for Homeowners  

HOPE for Homeowners was a federal aid program established by HERA that was designed to help homeowners in financial distress as a result of the collapse of the subprime mortgage market in 2007–08. Operational from October 2008 to September 2011, it allowed financially distressed homeowners close to default to refinance their mortgages into affordable 30-year or even 40-year fixed-rate loans. These were among the loans that the FHA was allowed to guarantee. The idea was that lenders would write down the principal balance of the loans to help people refinance and lower their mortgage payments.






The Fair Housing Act is also known as the Civil Rights Act of 1968 or Title VII of the Civil Rights Act.



The National Housing Act helped people buy homes; the HOPE program aimed to enable people to keep their homes. It was more of a direct bailout than the National Housing Act.


  U.S. COVID-19 Stimulus and Relief  

On March 18, 2020, as the U.S. went into lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the FHA and the FHFA implemented foreclosure moratoriums for single-family homeowners whose mortgages are FHA-insured or backed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. Mortgage forbearance was also put in place. These moratoriums have been renewed repeatedly.



In February 2021, President Biden extended the enrollment period for mortgage payment forbearance for government-backed loans until Sept. 30, 2021, and extended the period of mortgage payment forbearance available to borrowers who entered forbearance before June 30, 2020, by up to six months.




Did the National Housing Act help everyone?
The National Housing Act did help millions. By the end of the 1930s, “12,000,000 people have been enabled to improve their housing standards and conditions under the FHA program, including [new home purchases and] the modernization and repair provisions of the National Housing Act,” the Sixth Annual Report of the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) noted in 1939.On the other hand, the FHA adopted rules that confirmed existing patterns of racial discrimination in lending and segregation in housing. Many Black, Latinx, and other non-White Americans neither benefited from its programs nor were eligible to receive its insured loans or move into neighborhoods that it helped subsidize.




What was the Housing Act of 1949?
The Housing Act of 1949 was passed to help address the decline of urban housing following the post-World War II exodus to the suburbs. A part of the Harry Truman administration’s “Fair Deal,” it provided governance over how government financial resources would shape the growth of American cities, specifically by increasing the FHA’s mortgage insurance—thus making home financing and homeownership more widespread—and providing federal funds for slum clearance and public housing projects, committing the government to build 810,000 new units.The consensus is that the act mostly failed, in part because large-scale slum clearance proved a crude and largely unworkable redevelopment method. Urban renewal also failed because concerns over social equity, such as where to house dislocated people, were inadequately addressed. Twenty-five years after the act’s passage, many observers concluded that public housing and urban renewal programs were fostering the slums and blight that they were meant to eradicate.However, the act’s homeownership goals were, by and large, met successfully: Expanding FHA authorization did make it easier for many Americans to own homes—although FHA guidelines did still discriminate against non-White borrowers.




What was the Fair Housing Act of 1968?
The Fair Housing Act of 1968 outlaws discrimination against home renters and buyers by landlords, sellers, and lenders on account of their race, color, religion, national origin. (Later amendments added sex, disability, and familial status.) The act is enforced by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The U.S. Department of Justice can file suit under the act if there is a pattern or practice of discrimination or where a denial of rights to a group raises an issue of general public importance.States can enhance—but cannot reduce—the protections under the Fair Housing Act.




What was the outcome of the Fair Housing Act of 1968?
Despite the historic nature of the Fair Housing Act, and its stature as the last major act of legislation of the civil rights movement, housing remained segregated and discrimination continued in many regions of the U.S.In 1974, the federal government expanded the Fair Housing Act of 1968 to include protections for gender. In 1988, Congress passed the Fair Housing Amendments Act, which expanded the law to prohibit discrimination in housing based on disability or family status, strengthening protections for pregnant women and minor children. Various state and local jurisdictions have added specific protections for sexual orientation and other categories.


   The Bottom Line  

The National Housing Act was a landmark piece of legislation. Its main accomplishment, the FHA, remains an important part of the U.S. housing finance system, providing mortgage insurance and other subsidies that make loans possible to thousands of low- and middle-income Americans each year. Through the agency it created, the National Housing Act was instrumental in homeownership becoming part of the American Dream. Unfortunately, that same agency also helped to deny the dream to many Americans and created a legacy of redlining and income inequality.
What Is National Income Accounting?  

National income accounting is a bookkeeping system that a government uses to measure the level of the country's economic activity in a given time period. Accounting records of this nature include data regarding total revenues earned by domestic corporations, wages paid to foreign and domestic workers, and the amount spent on sales and income taxes by corporations and individuals residing in the country.





Key Takeaways

National income accounting is a government bookkeeping system that measures a country's economic activity—offering insight into how an economy is performing.Such a system will include total revenues by domestic corporations, wages paid, and sales and income tax data for companies.National income accounting systems allow countries to assess the current standard of living or the distribution of income within a population, as well as assess the effects of various economic policies.However, the accuracy of analysis relating to national income accounting is only as accurate as the data collected.












Investopedia / Matthew Collins


   Understanding National Income Accounting  

Although national income accounting is not an exact science, it provides useful insight into how well an economy is functioning, and where money is being generated and spent. When combined with information regarding the associated population, data regarding per capita income and growth can be examined over a period of time.



Some of the metrics calculated by using national income accounting include the gross domestic product (GDP), gross national product (GNP), and gross national income (GNI). The GDP is widely used for economic analysis on the domestic level and represents the total market value of the goods and services produced within a specific nation over a selected period of time.



In the U.S., the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) prepares and publishes data on national income accounts. Examples of national income accounts published by the BEA include domestic product and income, personal product and income, savings and investments, and foreign transactions.


   Special Considerations  

The information collected through national income accounting can be used for a variety of purposes, such as assessing the current standard of living or the distribution of income within a population.



Additionally, national income accounting provides a method for comparing activities within different sectors in an economy, as well as changes within those sectors over time. A thorough analysis can assist in determining overall economic stability within a nation.



For example, the U.S. uses information regarding the current GDP in the formation of various policies. The commonly used formula for calculating GDP—the expenditure approach—is also known as the national income accounting equation. The formula is:



GDP = C + G + I + NX



where:



C = consumption;G = government spending;I = InvestmentNX = net exports (exports - imports)


   National Income Accounting vs. Economic Policy  

The quantitative information associated with national income accounting can be used to determine the effect of various economic policies. Considered an aggregate of the economic activity within a nation, national income accounting provides economists and statisticians with detailed information that can be used to track the health of an economy and to forecast future growth and development.



The data can provide guidance regarding inflation policy and can be especially useful in the transitioning economies of developing nations, as well as statistics regarding production levels as related to shifting labor forces.



This data is also used by central banks to set and adjust monetary policy and affect the risk-free rate of interest that they set. Governments also look at figures such as GDP growth and unemployment to set fiscal policy in terms of tax rates and infrastructure spending. Globally, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the World Bank, and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) put together national income accounting information and publish it.


   Criticisms of National Income Accounting  

The accuracy of analysis relating to national income accounting is only as accurate as the data collected. Failure to provide the data in a timely fashion can render it useless in regard to policy analysis and creation.



Additionally, certain data points are not examined, such as the impact of the underground economy and illegal production. This means these activities are not reflected in the analysis even if their effect on the economy is strong. As a result, it can be argued that certain national accounts, such as GDP or the consumer price index (CPI) used to measure inflation do not accurately capture the real economic output of the economy.




Which Is a Primary Use for National Income Accounting?
National income accounting is used to measure economic growth and activity. It can also be useful in tracking trends and guiding monetary policy, such as policy tax rate setting.




What Are the Problems of National Income Accounting?
The key issues with national income accounting is the exclusion of goods or services that have no monetary value and possible double counting of goods. Other issues include the fact that black market goods are excluded and reliable and adequate data is generally lacking.




What Government Purchases Are Included in National Income Accounting?
National income accounting includes government purchases, such as any federal, state, or local government spending. Government purchases includes infrastructure spending, such as buying steel for a project, and paying employees. However, transfer payments, such as Social Security payments, are not included.
What Is a National Insurance Contribution (NIC)?  

A national Insurance contribution (NIC) is a tax paid by British employees and employers to fund government benefits programs. Contributions are made through payroll deductions and are based on several criteria, including an employee's age and earnings. Individuals need a National Insurance number issued by the federal government before NICs can be made. The NIC program works just like the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) system in the U.S.





Key Takeaways

National Insurance Contributions are taxes paid by employees and employers in the U.K.National Insurance is an umbrella term for universal health care, the public pension program, and unemployment benefits.Employees may make additional voluntary payments to increase the pension amount they're eventually entitled to receive.


   How National Insurance Contributions (NICs) Work  

National Insurance is a tax paid by individuals and corporations in the United Kingdom. It is a withholding tax just like FICA in the United States. Employees and employers pay a share of the National Insurance contributions, which the employer collects through payroll deductions. Self-employed individuals pay both portions.



In order to begin paying, individuals must have a National Insurance number, which is just like a Social Security number (SSN). Taxpayers can apply for a NIN online. This number is unique to an individual, so contributions are recorded against only one taxpayer's name.



Taxpayers must make NICs as long as they meet the following criteria:



Are 16 or olderEarn more than £242 a week or are self-employed with an annual profit of more than £12,570 



Employees can also make additional voluntary contributions so they can qualify for a higher pension amount in the future. Self-employed people and British citizens working outside the country can also make voluntary contributions toward pension eligibility.



NICs are collected to fund a number of benefit programs. This is done by dividing employees into classes. The table below highlights these classes and the benefit programs they fund.











Programs Funded by National Insurance Contributions




 
Class 1: Employees
Class 2: Self-Employed
Class 3: Voluntary Contributions


Basic State Pension
✔ 
 ✔
 ✔


Additional State Pension
✔
 
 


New State Pension
✔
✔ 
✔ 


New Style Jobseeker’s Allowance
✔
 
 


Employment and Support Allowance (Contribution-Based)
✔ 
✔ 
 


Maternity Allowance
✔ 
✔ 
 


Bereavement Support Payment
✔ 
✔ 
 



Source: Gov.uk






The basic State Pension in the U.K. is £156.20 each week. The full new State Pension is £203.85 per week.


   Categories and Rates for National Insurance Contributions (NICs)  

Employees are divided into different categories:









National Insurance Contribution Employee Categories




Category
Description 


A 
General employees 


B 
Married women and widows (reduced NI) 


C 
Individuals over the State Pension age 


H 
Apprentices under the age of 25


J 
Individuals who can defer payments because they pay NI through another employer


M 
Individuals 21 and under 


V 
Veterans at their first job


Z 
Individuals 21 and under who can defer payments because they pay NI through another employer



Source: Gov.uk



There are other categories for taxpayers who work in freeports. Individuals who don't make NICs are categorized with the letter X.



Each of these classifications is assigned a different rate based on the amount they earn per week:











National Insurance Contribution Rates




Category 
£123 to £242
£242.01 to £967
Over £967


A 
0% 
12% 
2% 


B 
0% 
5.85% 
2% 


C 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A


H 
0% 
12% 
2% 


J 
0% 
2% 
2% 


M 
0%
12% 
2% 


V 
0% 
12% 
2% 


Z 
0% 
2% 
2% 



Source: Gov.uk



An employee who works or expects to work fewer than 35 years will not qualify for the maximum pension benefit without making additional voluntary payments. Payouts may be higher for employees who make voluntary contributions or defer taking the benefit until a later age.


   History of National Insurance Contributions (NICs)  

British employees pay the National Insurance from age 16 through the official retirement age, which is age 65 for most but is being gradually increased to age 67. The system began with the National Insurance Act of 1911 and was limited to a government-funded unemployment benefit.



At that time, health insurance and pension benefits were administered by private trade unions and approved societies or professional associations. An Old Age Pension was paid to people over age 70, at a time when only one in four Britons lived that long.



World War II was nearing its end by the time the government began contemplating an expansion of the social safety net in Great Britain. In March 1943, Prime Minister Winston Churchill, in a radio broadcast, promised a system of "national compulsory insurance for all classes for all purposes from the cradle to the grave."



The system was not fully in place until 1948. A series of expansions in the 20th century extended its reach to add funding for the National Health Service, the public retiree pension plan, and unemployment benefits.




What Is a National Insurance Number?
A National Insurance number in the U.K. is a unique identifier assigned to one particular individual. The number is used to administer the country's National Insurance system and is similar to a Social Security number in the United States. A person's NI number ensures that National Insurance contributions are recorded against their name. Individuals can also use it to reference issues with the social security system.




Does Everyone in the U.K. Make National Insurance Contributions?
Individuals must meet certain eligibility criteria before they can begin making National Insurance contributions. Employees must be 16 or older and must meet minimum income thresholds. Employers generally withhold employee contributions through payroll deductions. Self-employed individuals are responsible for making their own contributions.




What Do National Insurance Contributions Fund?
National Insurance contributions made by employees in the United Kingdom are used to fund various social benefit programs. These include the country's pension system, unemployment benefits, and sickness benefits, among others.


   The Bottom Line  

Many countries have systems in place to fund social benefit programs. The National Insurance system in the United Kingdom relies on contributions from employees over the age of 16 to pay for retiree pensions, unemployment benefits, and other related social programs. Individuals must have a valid National Insurance number before contributions can be made. National Insurance contributions are similar to the FICA system in the United States, which funds Social Security and Medicare.
What is the National Market System (NMS)?  

The National Market System (NMS) promotes free market transparency by regulating how all major exchanges disclose and execute trades. It is the system for equity trading and order fulfillment in the U.S. that consists of trading, clearing, depository, and quote distribution functions. The NMS governs the activities of all formal U.S. stock exchanges and the NASDAQ market.





Key Takeaways

The National Market System (NMS) promotes free market transparency by regulating how all major exchanges disclose and execute trades.To facilitate the fair distribution of information, the NMS requires that exchanges make bids and offers available and visible to both individual and institutional investors.In 2005, the SEC issued the Regulation National Market System (Reg NMS) to strengthen the NMS and account for changing technology.


   Understanding the National Market System (NMS)  

The National Market System, which was created by the Securities Acts Amendments of 1975, is overseen by the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD) and NASDAQ. The NMS governs exchange-based trading, such as on the New York Stock Exchange, and OTC trading on the NASDAQ. For practical purposes, the NASDAQ is considered an exchange, even though the negotiations occur directly among market markers.



To facilitate the fair distribution of information, the NMS requires that exchanges make bids and offers (ask price) available and visible to both retail and institutional investors. The advantages are an increase in liquidity and better prices. However, the system makes it difficult for institutions and large investors to execute large trades unnoticed. Some people argue that this visibility has pushed such trading off-exchange, fueling the expansion of private exchanges, called dark pools.





Important

On December 9, 2020, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) adopted new rules intended to modernize the infrastructure for the collection, consolidation, and dissemination of market data for exchange-listed national market system stocks. Among other adopted rules, the SEC has updated and expanded the content of NMS market data. Read more about these new rules here.


   NMS vs. Other OTC  

NASDAQ is the highest of four levels of over-the-counter (OTC) trading where companies must meet specific criteria of capitalization, profitability, and trading activity. Also, NASDAQ provides more comprehensive intraday trading information that is available for the lower levels of OTC stocks. Information includes last-sale prices, daily high and low prices, cumulative volume, and bid and ask quotes. Here, market makers must report actual transacted prices and share sizes within 90 seconds of the transaction. This requirement contrasts with the non-real-time reporting for non-NMS, lower tier OTC stocks.



The NASDAQ, while still a decentralized system for over-the-counter stock trading, is a virtual exchange with all the regulations, requirements, and safeguards that come with clearing houses. Other OTC markets have considerably fewer rules and safeguards.



OTC markets break down into three tiers, called the OTCQX, OTCQB, and Pink Sheets. Listing requirements decrease with each level. Also, all of these markets are less stringent than exchanges covered by the National Market System.


   Regulation National Market System (Reg NMS)  

The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) saw a need to strengthen the NMS and account for changing technology. In 2005, they issued the Regulation National Market System (Reg NMS), which contains four main components.



The Order Protection Rule aims to guarantee investors get the best price at the execution of their order. The rule removes the ability to have orders traded through or executed at a worse price.
Improved access to quotations from trading centers in the NMS is due to the Access Rule. The rule requires greater linking and lower access fees.
The Sub-Penny Rule provides for uniform quotes by setting the increment to nothing less than one cent. The rule applies to all stocks listed at over $1 per share.
Market Data Rules allocate revenue to self-regulatory organizations that promote and improve market data access.



Probably most important of these rules was the order protection, or trade through, provision. Trade executions are provided at the best price, no matter where that lowest price is available.



Critics complained that it requires traders to transact on a trading venue that had the lowest price, even though they would prefer doing business on the site with the fastest execution or the best reliability. The feeling was that it would result in worse outcomes for institutional orders with all costs factored in.
What Is the National Registration Database?  

The National Registration Database (NRD) is a Canadian database that was launched in 2003 to replace the original paper form system. It allows security dealers and investment advisors to file registration forms electronically.


   Understanding the National Registration Database (NRD)  

The NRD increases the efficiency of the filing and sharing of information between provincial security regulators. Examples of items that need to be filed include a change in the information of a member firm and the termination of an investment advisor. 



An individual or company who trades or underwrites securities, or provides investment advice, must register annually with one or more provincial securities regulators. The goal is to protect the investing public by ensuring that only qualified and reputable individuals and firms are licensed. The NRD was initiated by the Canadian Securities Administrators (CSA) and the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada (IIROC). The CSA is composed of securities regulators from each province and territory. 



On the CSA website, investors can search for a company or individual to check if they are registered before they invest. The NRD has two websites; the NRD Information Website, which contains information for the public, and the National Registration Database for use by authorized representatives.


   Why the NRD Was Formed  

Securities regulators recognized that the registration process could be drastically improved by introducing an electronic system that would replace the existing paper-based system. A national web-based registration system could help the CSA achieve its long-term goals of easing the regulatory burden for capital market participants and harmonizing securities regulations across jurisdictions.



A study commissioned by the CSA in 2001 estimated the total economic benefits of NRD to the Canadian financial services industry would be $85 million over a five year period. 


   Expected Benefits of the NRD  

The study also found that most of the gains would be realized as a result of efficiency gains. For example, the registration process would provide cash benefits to firms, lower labor costs, and save time. Large firms hoped to gain over 50% of the $85 million projected benefits, and small firms hoped to benefit on a per registrant basis to a greater extent than large firms. Small firms expected benefits equal to $2,200 per registrant compared to $264 for each large firm registrant.


   Registering With the NRD  

To register with the NRD, firms must pay a fee when they initially register. Firms and individuals must also pay a fee if they register in an additional jurisdiction or want to reactivate registration. The fee is $75 for each Form 33-109F4, which must be submitted for each individual or firm applying for registration and $20.50 for each Form 33-109F4, which must be submitted for each individual applying for registration in each additional jurisdiction.
What Is the National Retail Federation (NRF)?  

The National Retail Federation (NRF) is a retail trade association, founded in 1911, that is made up of members from all phases of the retail industry, including department stores, specialty, discount, catalog, Internet and independent retailers, restaurant chains, and grocers, as well as businesses that supply goods and services to retailers. The NRF, formerly called the National Retail Dry Goods Association in 2011, forms an umbrella over many state, national and international retail associations.





Key Takeaways

The National Retail Federation (NRF) started in 1911 and continues to be the leading and largest group of retailers worldwide.Its lobbying arm is long and it is actively engaged in advocating for legislation and setting policy agenda around issues of labor, commerce, healthcare, and workforce development.The NRF Foundation offers scholarships, grants, and training to those interested in working in the retail industry.Retail is the nation’s largest private-sector employer. Approximately 52 million Americans work in retail.The Big Show, NRF's annual convention, with over 40,000 attendees, will take place in NYC in 2022.


   Understanding the National Retail Federation (NRF)  

The National Retail Federation states that it is the largest association of retailers in the world. It represents a wide variety of retail segments in the United States and over 45 countries. It also holds a large annual convention dubbed “The Big Show,” held in New York City over multiple days.



Based in Washington, D.C., the NRF offers memberships to retailers, industry partners, universities and students, and distributes retail-focused publications such as newsletters and STORES magazine.



The NRF has several divisions dealing with different aspects of retailing, such as technology and education. Known as the “Voice of Retail,” the NRF prides itself on representing the merchants that impact and connect with the everyday lives of the American consumer.



The NRF is also a lobbyist group that spends its time, energy, and money lobbying for and supporting legislature that impacts the retail industry and labor practices. For example, in July 2020, during the coronavirus pandemic, the NRF lobbied that all retailers adopt a mask mandate for shoppers and employees in all stores.


   The NRF Foundation  

The NRF created the NRF Foundation, a nonprofit, to provide resources and experiences for those interested in jobs or long-term careers in retail. Its main goal is to support the next generation of potential retail leaders. The NRF Foundation’s offerings include a career center, job boards, and training. It also provides scholarship programs for retail employees and students.



The foundation's RISE UP training and credential program offers skills and practical hands-on opportunities for students at over 900 high schools, career, and technical education centers, and workforce boards in the United States. RISE UP's curriculum and exams are industry-recognized. The foundation created this program in collaboration with major retailers, including Walmart, The Home Depot, Burlington Stores, Macy’s, BJs Wholesale Club, and Nordstrom.



According to its website, over 400,000 people received RISE Up credentials. In addition, the NRF Foundation has awarded over half-million dollars in college scholarships. It provides in-person and virtual programming to help interested young people and others learn more about the retail industry and gain introductions and insights from industry experts.


   NRF Membership  

The NRF offers memberships for retailers, industry partners, universities, and global membership, the Federation of International Retail Associations (FIRA). Depending on the membership, NRF offers member-specific networking and event opportunities, access to curated online content, like research reports, and provides opportunities for advocating on policy issues. University members gain access to exclusive events and content designed to benefit students studying the retail industry, plus access to NRF-supported scholarships for students at member universities.



The cost of membership varies depending on the category. For example, a university membership's annual fee is $1,000, FIRA's annual dues are $1,400, and membership dues for retailers and industry partners vary.






The National Retail Federation focuses on the strong representation of the retail industry and advocates for policies that support and protect the retail industry. The NRF Foundation works to educate the public about innovation in the industry and educate and encourage those interested in working in the retail market.


   Retail's Big Show  

The NRF's Big Show is the oldest (over 100 years old) retail conference and expo in North America. It typically takes place over four days in January at the Javits Center in New York City, where it hosts tens of thousands of guests (over 40,000 in 2020), with over 700 booths, lectures, classrooms, industry gatherings, networking opportunities, guest speakers, new tech demonstrations and innovation labs, and a gala.



In 2021, the Big Show moved to a virtual format due to the coronavirus pandemic. It will be back at the Javits Center in January 2022 for its usual four days, plus an opening party the night before the conference hall opens.


   NRF FAQs  
  What Is the Purpose of the National Retail Federation?  

The purpose of the National Retail Federation is to act as an advocate for public policy that impacts retailers, to educate lawmakers and the public about the role of retail, to train young people for successful careers in the retail industry, and to provide opportunities for fellowship, networking, and provide insights to NRF members, like universities and associate retailers, among others.


  Who Runs the National Retail Federation?  

The National Retail Federation is run by a board of directors and an executive committee. Its chairman is Mike George, president and CEO of Qurate Retail, Inc.


  What Is the NRF Certification?  

The NRF offers a Retail Industry Fundamentals credential program that you can earn by enrolling in the 10-lesson certification course. The program offers a broad overview of topics in the retail industry, including workplace safety, economic impacts, customer service, and sales basics.
What Is a National Securities Clearing Corporation?  

National Securities Clearing Corporation (NSCC) is a subsidiary of Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation (DTCC) that provides centralized clearing, risk management, information, and settlement services to the financial industry.



The NSCC offers multilateral netting so that brokers can offset buy and sell positions into a single payment obligation. This reduces their financial exposure and capital requirements.


   How the National Securities Clearing Corporation (NSCC) Works  

The National Securities Clearing Corporation was established in 1976 and is a registered clearing corporation, regulated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).



Before its inception, strong demand for paper stock certificates had become nearly overwhelming for many stock brokerages, causing the stock exchanges to close once a week.





Key Takeaways

National Securities Clearing Corporation (NSCC) founded in 1976 is a subsidiary of Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation (DTCC).The NSCC operates as a seller for every buyer, and buyer for every seller in the financial industry for trades that settle in U.S. markets. The organization provides settlement services to the financial industry, along with risk management, information, and centralized clearing.The NSCC offers multilateral netting allowing brokers to offset buy and sell positions into a single payment obligation.



To overcome this problem, multilateral netting was proposed. This is an arrangement among multiple parties to sum transactions in a centralized area, rather than settle them individually. This helps avoid the need for multiple invoicing and payment settlements among various parties.



The decision to work with multilateral netting led to the formation of the NSCC. Today, this corporation serves as a seller for every buyer, and buyer for every seller for trades that settle in U.S. markets. The NSCC helps reduce the value of payments exchanged by an average of 98% daily. Also, it’s important to note that NSCC generally clears and settles trades on a T+2 basis.






The NSCC and the Depository Trust Company or DTC (another subsidiary of the DTCC) play a significant part in the settlement and clearing of securities transactions. They are the largest providers of these services, worldwide.


   NSCC and Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation (DTCC)  

As noted above, NSCC is a subsidiary of DTCC. Along with NSCC, DTCC manages an additional four clearing corporations and one depository. DTCC is the world's largest financial services corporation dealing in post-trade transactions. DTCC’s core function is to integrate NSCC and DTC, streamlining clearing, and depository transactions to reduce costs and increase capital efficiency.



Founded in 1973, DTCC remains one of the world's largest securities depositories. The entity is organized as a limited purpose trust company and provides electronic safekeeping of securities balances. Also, DTC acts as a clearinghouse to process and settle trades in corporate and municipal securities.)



Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation takes offsetting positions with clients in every transaction to ensures that transactions are completed promptly and efficiently. Clearing brokers associated with the DTCC are exchange members, who help ensure that trades settle appropriately and that transactions are successful. Also, these clearing brokers maintain paperwork associated with the clearing and executing of a transaction.
What Is the National Securities Markets Improvement Act (NSMIA)?  

The National Securities Markets Improvement Act is a law passed in 1996 that sought to simplify securities regulation in the U.S. by apportioning more regulatory power to the federal government.





Key Takeaways

The National Securities Markets Improvement Act sought to increase efficiency in the securities market by creating less burdensome and more effective regulation.The NSMIA promoted efficiency by reducing the amount of interplay between competing regulatory agencies, namely between states and the SEC.The NSMIA provisions only exempt "covered" securities (nationally traded stocks and mutual funds) from state-level regulation.


   Understanding National Securities Markets Improvement Act (NSMIA)  

The National Securities Markets Improvement Act (NSMIA) amended the Investment Company Act of 1940 and the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and went into effect on Jan. 1, 1997. Its main consequence was to increase the authority of federal regulators at the expense of their state-level counterparts, a change that was expected to increase the efficiency of the financial services industry. 



Prior to the NSMIA, state-level Blue Sky laws, which were passed in order to protect retail investors from scams, were considerably more powerful. However, because the securities subject to this regulation were already subject to hefty federal regulation, it's likely these laws slowed things down in the market. The NSMIA reduced the amount of interplay between competing regulatory agencies by transferring most of the state's regulatory power to the federal government, namely the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).



The law states that "covered" securities are exempt from having to pass through the state's regulatory agencies. Today, most stocks traded in the U.S. are considered covered securities. In addition to the offers and sales of certain exempt securities, the NSMIA defines "covered" securities as securities that:



Are listed on national securities exchanges such as the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq
Are issued by an "investment company that is registered, or that has filed a registration statement, under the Investment Company Act of 1940"


   History of the National Securities Markets Improvement Act (NSMIA)  

Before the NSMIA was enacted in 1996, the states' blue sky laws had significant regulatory power over capital formation in the securities market. The term "blue sky law" is said to have originated in the early 1900s, gaining widespread use when a Kansas Supreme Court justice declared his desire to protect investors from speculative ventures that had "no more basis than so many feet of 'blue sky.'"



This law proved to be particularly necessary after the stock market crash in 1929. There was much uncertainty during this time and investors didn't have full trust that the stocks they were investing in were legitimate. In fact, many companies issued stock, promoted real estate, and other investment deals while making lofty, unsubstantiated claims of greater profits to come. At this time, the SEC did not yet exist and there was little regulatory oversight of the investment and financial industry as a whole.



However, since the creation of the SEC and advancements in technology and ledger systems, blue sky laws simply duplicate the regulatory measures imposed by the SEC which can slow down capital formation, particularly among smaller businesses.
What Is the National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE)?  

The National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) is India's largest financial market. Incorporated in 1992, the NSE has developed into a sophisticated, electronic market, which ranked fourth in the world by equity trading volume. Trading commenced in 1994 with the launch of the wholesale debt market and a cash market segment shortly thereafter.





Key Takeaways

The National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) is India's largest financial market and the fourth largest market by trading volume.The National Stock Exchange of India Limited was the first exchange in India to provide modern, fully automated electronic trading.The NSE is the largest private wide-area network in India.The NSE has been a pioneer in Indian financial markets, being the first electronic limit order book to trade derivatives and ETFs.


   Understanding the National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE)  

Today, the National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) conducts transactions in the wholesale debt, equity, and derivative markets. One of the more popular offerings is the NIFTY 50 Index, which tracks the largest assets in the Indian equity market. US investors can access the index with exchange-traded funds (ETF), such as the iShares India 50 ETF (INDY).



The National Stock Exchange of India Limited was the first exchange in India to provide modern, fully automated electronic trading. It was set up by a group of Indian financial institutions with the goal of bringing greater transparency to the Indian capital market.


   Special Considerations  

As of June 2020, the National Stock Exchange had accumulated $2.27 trillion in total market capitalization, making it one of the world's largest stock exchange. The flagship index, the NIFTY 50, represents the majority of total market capitalization listed on the exchange.



The total traded value of stocks listed on the index makes up almost half of the traded value of all stocks on the NSE for the last six months. The index itself covers 12 sectors of the Indian economy across 50 stocks. Besides the NIFTY 50 Index, the National Stock Exchange maintains market indices that track various market capitalizations, volatility, specific sectors, and factor strategies. 



The National Stock Exchange has been a pioneer in Indian financial markets, being the first electronic limit order book to trade derivatives and ETFs. The exchange supports more than 3,000 Very Small Aperture Terminal (VSAT) terminals, making the NSE the largest private wide-area network in the country. Girish Chandra Chaturvedi is the Chair of the Board of Directors and Vikram Limaye is the Managing Director and CEO of the exchange. 


   Benefits of the NSE  

The National Stock Exchange is a premier marketplace for companies preparing to list on a major exchange. The sheer volume of trading activity and application of automated systems promotes greater transparency in trade matching and the settlement process.



This in itself can boost visibility in the market and lift investor confidence. Using cutting-edge technology also allows orders to be filled more efficiently, resulting in greater liquidity and accurate prices.
What Is Nationalization?  

Nationalization refers to the action of a government taking control of a company or industry, which generally occurs without compensation for the loss of the net worth of seized assets and potential income. The action may be the result of a nation's attempt to consolidate power, resentment of foreign ownership of industries representing significant importance to local economies or to prop up failing industries.





Key Takeaways

Nationalization is the process of taking privately-controlled companies, industries, or assets and putting them under the control of the government.Nationalization often happens in developing countries and can reflect a nation's desire to control assets or to assert its dominance over foreign-owned industries.Often, the companies or assets are taken over and little to no compensation is provided to the previous owners.Nationalization is different from privatization, in which government-run companies are moved into the private business sector.


   Understanding Nationalization  

Nationalization is more common in developing countries. Privatization, which is the transfer of government-run operations into the private business sector, occurs more frequently in developed countries.



Nationalization is one of the primary risks for companies doing business in foreign countries due to the potential of having significant assets seized without compensation. This risk is magnified in countries with unstable political leadership and stagnant or contracting economies. The key outcome of nationalization is the redirection of revenues to the country’s government instead of private operators who may export funds with no benefit to the host country.


   Nationalization and Oil  

The oil industry has experienced nationalization actions for decades, dating back to Mexico’s nationalization of the assets of foreign producers such as Royal Dutch and Standard Oil in 1938 and Iran's nationalization of the assets of Anglo-Iranian 1951. The result of Mexico's nationalization of foreigners’ oil assets was the creation of PEMEX, which is one of the largest oil producers in the world. After the nationalization of Anglo-Iranian, Iran's economy fell into disarray, and Britain was allowed back in as a 50% partner a few years later. In 1954, Anglo-Iranian was renamed the British Petroleum Company.



In 2007, Venezuela nationalized Exxon Mobil’s Cerro Negro Project and other assets. Seeking $16.6 billion in compensation, Exxon Mobil was awarded approximately 10% of that amount by a World Bank arbitration panel in 2014.


   Nationalization in the United States  

The United States has technically nationalized several companies, usually in the form of a bailout in which the government owns a controlling interest. The bailouts of AIG in 2008 and General Motors Company in 2009 amounted to nationalization, but the U.S. government exerted very little control over these companies. The government also nationalized the failing Continental Illinois Bank and Trust in 1984, finally selling it to Bank of America in 1994.



Despite the temporary nature of most nationalization actions in the United States, there are exceptions. Amtrak was transferred to government ownership after several railroad companies failed in 1971. After the terror attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, the airport security industry was nationalized under the Transportation Security Administration (TSA).
What Is a Natural Gas ETF?  

A natural gas exchange-traded fund (ETF) is a type of pooled investment product that provides investors with exposure to natural gas prices. These funds are often overseen by a professional manager, who invests on behalf of the investors, and tend to invest in a basket of natural gas futures contracts rather than hold stocks of natural gas companies.





Key Takeaways

Natural gas ETFs are investment vehicles that provide exposure to natural gas prices.They are structured as commodity pools that hold natural gas futures contracts.Natural gas prices have been rising off supply shortages and the easing of lockdown restrictions, having previously hit 30-year lows in 2020.


   Understanding Natural Gas ETFs  

Natural gas is a commodity that serves many purposes. It is used as a source of energy for heating, cooking, fuel, and electricity generation as well as to manufacture plastics and other organic chemicals.



It is important for investors to understand the difference between natural gas ETFs and other popular types of ETFs. Many ETFs own their underlying assets directly, such as gold ETFs that own physical bullion or industry-sector ETFs that own the shares of companies operating in their industry.



Natural gas ETFs, however, do not usually own any physical natural gas. Instead, they own natural gas indirectly by purchasing natural gas futures contracts that trade on a commodities exchange. The profitability of a natural gas ETF is, therefore, dependent on the overall price direction of natural gas, based on the trading that takes place on the commodities exchange.






The price of natural gas rises and falls according to fluctuations in supply and demand.


   Limitations of Natural Gas ETFs  

Because natural gas ETFs hold futures contracts, they are exposed to a special type of risk called contango. Each month, the manager of the natural gas ETF has to purchase new futures contracts to replace the old contracts that expire. The new contracts tend to have slightly higher prices than the old ones, meaning that each time contracts are replaced, extra costs are incurred by the fund manager. Over time, these small costs can add up to create a large drag on the fund’s overall performance.



For this reason, investors will generally avoid relying on natural gas ETFs as a type of long-term investment vehicle. Because of contango risk, an investor could incur significant costs from the ongoing roll-over of futures contracts, meaning that even if natural gas prices do rise over their investment period, they might not rise enough to make the overall investment profitable.



Most investors seeking exposure, therefore, use natural gas ETFs mainly as a short-term trading vehicle, so that the costs of contango do not accumulate enough to have a meaningful impact.






There are three natural gas ETFs that trade in the U.S., excluding inverse and leveraged ETFs, as of Aug. 2021.


   Example of a Natural Gas ETF  

One example of a widely traded natural gas ETF is the United States Natural Gas Fund. This fund is primarily composed of natural gas futures contracts that are set to expire within the next month and trades on the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) as UNG. Its goal is to reflect the daily changes in percentage terms of the price of natural gas delivered at the Henry Hub, Louisiana, a natural gas pipeline that serves as the official delivery location for futures contracts on the NYMEX. 



The United States Natural Gas Fund is very sensitive to fluctuations in natural gas prices, so investors need to watch market prices closely to try to yield a profit. Over the past 20 years, natural gas prices have ranged between a high of $20, reached in the Fall of 2005, to just under $1.7, reached in September of 2020.
What Are Natural Gas Liquids?  

Natural gas liquids (NGL) are components of natural gas that are separated from the gas state in the form of liquids. This separation occurs in a field facility or a gas processing plant through absorption, condensation, or other methods. There are several types of natural gas liquids and many different applications for NGL products.


   Understanding Natural Gas Liquids  

Natural gas liquids are valuable as separate products, and it is profitable to remove NGL from the natural gas. The liquids are first extracted from the natural gas and later separated into different components. Natural gas liquids are hydrocarbons. A hydrocarbon is a molecule composed exclusively of carbon and hydrogen. As hydrocarbons, NGLs belong in the same family of molecules as do natural gas and crude oil.





Key Takeaways

Natural gas liquids are components of natural gas that are separated from the gas state in the form of liquids.Applications for NGLs can vary widely and include cooking, heating, plastics, and fuels.A disadvantage of NGLs is that they can be expensive to handle, store, and transport.The U.S. has a growing export production of natural gas liquids.


   Types of NGLs and Their Applications  

Natural gas liquids are classified based on their vapor pressure:



Low = condensate
Intermediate = natural gas
High = liquefied petroleum gas



Additionally, chemical compositions of NGLs are similar, but their applications vary widely. Specifically, the many uses of natural gas liquids include cooking, space heating, and blending NGLs into fuels for vehicles.


  Ethane  

Applications of ethane include plastics production and petrochemical feedstock—raw materials fed into an industrial production process to yield a different end product. End-use products include plastics, plastic bags, antifreeze, and detergent.


  Propane  

Applications and uses of propane include residential and commercial heating, cooking fuel, small stoves, and petrochemical feedstock. Some vehicles also use propane as fuel.


  Butanes  

Butanes can be blended with gasoline and propane. Products include synthetic rubber for tires and lighter fuel. In its purest form, butane is useful as a refrigerant. Combined with propane, butane becomes liquified petroleum gas (LPG).


  Isobutanes  

Industrial use of isobutanes can include refinery feedstock and petrochemical feedstock. End-use products include aerosols and refrigerants.


  Pentanes  

Pentanes are used in natural gasoline and as a blowing agent for polystyrene foam. Pentanes plus, a special category (also known as natural gasoline), is blended with vehicle fuel and exported for bitumen production in oil sands.


   Challenges and Opportunities  

The U.S. shale boom increased extraction rates of natural gas liquids and NGL extraction is positively related to the price of crude oil. That's because, as the market price of crude decreases, oil, gas, and chemical companies expand their offerings to include NGLs and offset lost revenue.



There have been significant advancements in technologies such as horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing techniques, which involve using high-pressured water or liquids to extract gas. As a result, natural gas liquid production has increased steadily. In fact, NGLs provide many natural gas producers with an additional income stream, which can help diversify their revenue.



A challenge with natural gas liquids is that they're expensive to handle, store, and transport compared to refined products because NGLs require high pressure or low temperature to be maintained in their liquid state for shipment and handling. NGLs are also highly flammable and necessitate the use of special trucks, ships, and storage tanks.



The volatility of the natural gas liquids somewhat limits the number of markets available for their use. Also, as production increases, so too does the need for processing plants that separate NGLs from natural gas.





Pros

NGLs are used in petrochemical feedstock that is turned into various chemical-based products.
NGLs have many applications including use as home heating, plastic production, and as a fuel.
NGLs are more widely available with advancements in drilling techniques.
NGLs offer oil and gas companies additional revenue streams.
The U.S. has a growing export business in natural gas liquids.



Cons

NGLs are expensive to handle, store, and transport requiring special trucks, storage, and equipment.
NGLs require high pressure or low temperature to maintain their liquid state for shipment.
Increased NGL use has led to increased demand for processing plants that separate NGLs from natural gas.
Their volatility limits the number of natural markets available for their use.





   Examples of NGLs  

Let's say that a new production facility opened in Texas, whereby drilling for natural gas has resulted in a significant amount of the fuel. The gas is extracted from the well and sent to a production facility to be heated at various temperatures to generate the NGLs ethane and propane.





XOM

Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) is one of the largest producers of natural gas in the United States.



The ethane is removed from the natural gas stream after it reaches the necessary boiling point, followed by propane, which is a heavier gas resulting in a lengthier boiling process. Once the propane and ethane have been removed from the natural gas stream, in a process called fractionation, the NGLs travel via a pipeline.



Eventually, natural gas liquids are shipped by specialized trucks to commercial businesses, industrial plants, and the local gas company. The propane can be used for residential and commercial heating as well as cooking. Lastly, ethane is used to create plastics such as water bottles and plastic bags.
What Is the Natural Gas Storage Indicator?  

The Natural Gas Storage Indicator is the U.S. Energy Information Administration's (EIA) estimate of working natural gas volumes held in underground storage facilities at the national and regional levels. The EIA provides weekly estimates of working gas volumes held in underground storage facilities at the Lower 48 states and five regional levels. Changes in these gas inventories on a weekly basis primarily reflect net withdrawals or injections. The report is generally updated and available every Thursday at 10:30 am EST. Unexpected changes such as above-average withdrawals or injections can have an immediate impact on natural gas prices.


   Understanding the Natural Gas Storage Indicator (EIA Report)  

The Natural Gas Storage Indicator is a measure of working gas, which is the volume of gas in a reservoir that is above a specified base level and is the amount of gas that is available for sale to the marketplace. The EIA report shows gas inventories for the reporting week and previous week, as well as the net change, on a national basis and for East, West and Producing regions. It also provides inventories for a year ago and the five-year average for historical comparison.



The overall approach relies on weekly survey data from a sample of operators of underground storage facilities. These data are used to prepare regional and national estimates for all underground storage.


   History of the Indicator  

Weekly estimates of working gas in storage were first provided by the American Gas Association (AGA) in 1994, however, by 2001, the AGA decided that it would discontinue its survey due to resource considerations. The EIA stepped in to fill the information gap to the natural gas market and released its first estimates of underground U.S. natural gas storage for the week ending May 3, 2002.


   The Indicator Goal  

According to the EIA, the goal of the weekly storage data program is to provide weekly estimates of the level of working gas in underground storage for the United States and five regions. The total volume of natural gas in underground storage reservoirs is classified as either base gas or working gas. Underground storage facilities may be reservoirs in depleted oil and gas fields, aquifers, or salt caverns.



The Natural Gas Storage Indicator is a very important data source for natural gas traders. According to the EIA, upon release of the report, the natural gas market reacts to the derived net change in inventory levels from the prior week. This information on the nature of the net changes between weekly inventory data reports is helpful in informing trading decisions that often move natural gas prices 3 cents to 5 cents per million British thermal units (MMBtu) each week upon release.
What Is a Natural Hedge?  

A natural hedge is a management strategy that seeks to mitigate risk by investing in assets whose performances are inherently negatively correlated. For instance, a natural hedge against owning financial stocks is to hold bonds, since interest rate changes tend to influence each in opposite fashion,



A natural hedge can also be implemented when institutions exploit their normal operating procedures. For example, if they incur expenses in the same currency that their revenues are generated they will actually reduce their exchange rate risk exposure, naturally.





Key Takeaways

A natural hedge is a strategy that seeks to mitigate risk by investing in assets whose performance is negatively correlated through some intrinsic or natural mechanism.Natural hedges can also occur within a corporation, where losses in one part of the business operations are offset by others, and vice-versa.Unlike other conventional hedging methods, a natural hedge does not require the use of sophisticated financial products such as forwards or derivatives.


   Understanding Natural Hedges  

A natural hedge entails using asset classes, that have historically exhibited contrasting performance in a given economic climate, to reduce a portfolio's or company's overall risk. The key concept is that by allocating resources to two different asset classes, the risk emanating from one asset should be offset by the return from the other and vice versa.



Essentially, the cash flow from one should cancel out the cash flow from the other, thus fulfilling the concept of a hedge.



A company with significant sales in one country is exposed to currency risk when they want to repatriate that revenue. They can reduce this risk if they can shift operations to where they can incur expenses also in that foreign currency, which would qualify as a natural hedge.



A commonly used example is that of an oil producer with refining operations in the US that is (at least partially) naturally hedged against the cost of crude oil, which is denominated in U.S. dollars. While a company can alter its operational behavior to take advantage of a natural hedge, such hedges are less flexible than financial hedges.


   Special Considerations  

Unlike other conventional hedging methods, a natural hedge does not require the use of sophisticated financial products such as forwards or derivatives. That said, companies can still use financial instruments such as futures, to supplement their natural hedges.



For example, a commodity company could shift as much of their operations to the country where they plan to sell their product, which is a natural hedge against currency risk, then use futures contracts to lock in the price to sell (revenue) that product at a later date.



Most hedges (natural or otherwise) are imperfect, and usually do not eliminate risk completely, but, they are still deployed and are considered to be successful if they can reduce a vast portion of potential risk.


   Other Examples of Natural Hedges  

Natural hedges also occur when a business's structure protects it from exchange rate movements. For example, when suppliers, production, and customers are all operating in the same currency, large companies may look to source raw materials, components, and other production inputs in the final consumer's country. The business can then set costs and prices in the same currency.



For mutual fund managers, treasury bonds and treasury notes can be a natural hedge against stock price movements. This is because bonds tend to perform well when stocks are performing poorly and vice versa.



Bonds are considered to be "risk-off" or safety assets while stocks are considered to be 'risk-on' or aggressive assets. This is a relationship that has been historically valid most of the time, but not always. In the years after the 2008 financial crisis, this negative correlation between bonds and stocks decoupled as both moved in tandem (e.g., strong bull markets), so this natural hedge would not have been successful.



Pairs trading is another type of natural hedge. This involves buying long and short positions in highly correlated stocks because the performance of one will offset the performance of the other.
What Is Natural Language Processing (NLP)?  

Natural Language Processing (NLP) is a field of artificial intelligence (AI) that enables computers to analyze and understand human language, both written and spoken. It was formulated to build software that generates and comprehends natural languages so that a user can have natural conversations with a computer instead of through programming or artificial languages like Java or C.





Key Takeaways

Natural language processing (NLP) employs computer algorithms and artificial intelligence to enable computers to recognize and respond to human communication.While several NLP methods exist, they typically involve breaking speech or text into discrete sub-units and then comparing these to a database of how these units fit together based on past experience.Text-to-speech apps, which are now found on most iOS and Android platforms, along with smart speakers like the Amazon Echo (Alexa) or Google Home, have become ubiquitous examples of NLP over the past few years.


   Understanding Natural Language Processing (NLP)  

Natural Language Processing (NLP) is one step in a larger mission for the technology sector—namely, to use artificial intelligence (AI) to simplify the way the world works. The digital world has proved to be a game-changer for a lot of companies as an increasingly technology-savvy population finds new ways of interacting online with each other and with companies.



Social media has redefined the meaning of community; cryptocurrency has changed the digital payment norm; e-commerce has created a new meaning of the word convenience, and cloud storage has introduced another level of data retention to the masses.



Through AI, fields like machine learning and deep learning are opening eyes to a world of all possibilities. Machine learning is increasingly being used in data analytics to make sense of big data. It is also used to program chatbots to simulate human conversations with customers. However, these forward applications of machine learning wouldn't be possible without the improvisation of Natural Language Processing (NLP).


   Stages of Natural Language Processing (NLP)  

NLP combines AI with computational linguistics and computer science to process human or natural languages and speech. The process can be broken down into three parts. The first task of NLP is to understand the natural language received by the computer. The computer uses a built-in statistical model to perform a speech recognition routine that converts the natural language to a programming language. It does this by breaking down a recent speech it hears into tiny units, and then compares these units to previous units from a previous speech.



The output or result in text format statistically determines the words and sentences that were most likely said. This first task is called the speech-to-text process.



The next task is called the part-of-speech (POS) tagging or word-category disambiguation. This process elementarily identifies words in their grammatical forms as nouns, verbs, adjectives, past tense, etc. using a set of lexicon rules coded into the computer. After these two processes, the computer probably now understands the meaning of the speech that was made.



The third step taken by an NLP is text-to-speech conversion. At this stage, the computer programming language is converted into an audible or textual format for the user. A financial news chatbot, for example, that is asked a question like “How is Google doing today?” will most likely scan online finance sites for Google stock, and may decide to select only information like price and volume as its reply.


   Special Considerations  

NLP attempts to make computers intelligent by making humans believe they are interacting with another human. The Turing test, proposed by Alan Turing in 1950, states that a computer can be fully intelligent if it can think and make a conversation like a human without the human knowing that they are actually conversing with a machine.



One computer in 2014 did convincingly pass the test—a chatbot with the persona of a 13-year-old boy. This is not to say that an intelligent machine is impossible to build, but it does outline the difficulties inherent in making a computer think or converse like a human. Since words can be used in different contexts, and machines don’t have the real-life experience that humans have for conveying and describing entities in words, it may take a little while longer before the world can completely do away with computer programming language.
What Is Natural Law?  

Natural law is a theory in ethics and philosophy that says that human beings possess intrinsic values that govern their reasoning and behavior.



Natural law maintains that these rules of right and wrong are inherent in people and are not created by society or court judges.





Key Takeaways

The theory of natural law says that humans possess an intrinsic sense of right and wrong that governs our reasoning and behavior.The concepts of natural law stem from the times of Plato and Aristotle and were practiced by great thinkers such as Mahatma Gandhi and Martin Luther King Jr.Natural law is constant throughout time and across the globe because it is based on human nature, not on culture or customs.Natural law is opposed to theories that laws are socially constructed and created by people.Examples of natural laws exist in fields from philosophy to economics.


   Understanding Natural Law  

Natural law holds that there are universal moral standards that are inherent in humankind throughout all time, and these standards should form the basis of a just society.



Human beings are not taught natural law per se. Instead, we “discover” it by consistently making choices for good instead of evil. Some schools of thought believe that natural law is passed to humans via a divine presence.



Under the theory of natural law, everyone—regardless of their governmental or political system, culture, or religion—has the same rights, and these rights cannot be denied by others. The birthrights granted to humans under natural law, however, are not the same as human rights, which vary and can change depending on societal views. For example, a human right in the United States is equal pay for equal work; however, in other countries, it is not.






Although natural law mainly applies to the realm of ethics and philosophy, it is also used extensively in theoretical economics.


   Natural Law vs. Positive Law  

The theory of natural law believes that our civil laws should be based on morality, ethics, and what is inherently correct. This is in contrast to what is called "positive law" or "human law," which is defined by statute and common law and may or may not reflect the natural law. 



Examples of positive law include rules such as the speed that individuals are allowed to drive on the highway and the age that individuals can legally purchase alcohol. Ideally, when drafting positive laws, governing bodies would base them on their sense of natural law.






"Natural laws" are inherent in us as human beings. "Positive laws" are created by us in the context of society.


   Examples of Natural Law  

Examples of natural law abound, but philosophers and theologians throughout history have differed in their interpretations of this doctrine. Theoretically, the precepts of natural law should be constant throughout time and across the globe because natural law is based on human nature, not on culture or customs.



When a child tearfully exclaims, “It’s not fair [that]..." or when viewing a documentary about the suffering of war, we feel pain because we're reminded of the horrors of human evil. And in doing this, we are also providing evidence for the existence of natural law. A well-accepted example of natural law in our society is that it is wrong for one person to kill another person.


  Examples of Natural Law in Philosophy and Religion  

Aristotle (384–322 BCE) is considered by many to be the founder of natural law. He argued that what is “just by nature” is not always the same as what is “just by law.” Aristotle believed that there is a natural justice that is valid everywhere with the same force. This natural justice is positive and does not depend on the decisions or laws of any one group of people.For St. Thomas Aquinas (1224/25–1274 CE), natural law and religion were inextricably connected. He believed that natural law "participates" in the divine "eternal" law. Aquinas thought eternal law to be that rational plan by which all creation is ordered, and natural law is the way that human beings participate in the eternal law. He further posited that the fundamental principle of natural law is that we should do good and avoid evil. Mahatma Gandhi (1869-1948) argued that humanity is in danger of being destroyed by seven "sins," often called the seven social sins: wealth without work, politics without principle, pleasure without conscience, commerce (or business) without morality (or ethics), knowledge without character, science without humanity, and religion without sacrifice. In each of these cases, the solution to the sin (work, principle, conscience, morality, character, humanity, and sacrifice) is an external standard derived from natural law.Martin Luther King, Jr. (1929–1968) argued that people have an obligation to obey natural laws over unjust positive laws that conflict with them, writing that "One has not only a legal but a moral responsibility to obey just laws. Conversely, one has a moral responsibility to disobey unjust laws... To put it in the terms of St. Thomas Aquinas: An unjust law is a human law that is not rooted in eternal law and natural law. Any law that uplifts human personality is just. Any law that degrades human personality is unjust."



Philosophers of natural law often do not explicitly concern themselves with economic matters; likewise, economists systematically refrain from making explicit moral value judgments. Yet the fact that economics and natural law are intertwined has been borne out consistently in the history of economics.


   Natural Law and the U.S. Legal System  

To many, natural law is the foundation upon which the U.S. legal system was built. Natural law is witnessed in the country's laws, systems, covenants, and how its citizens live and interact. One of its earliest documents—the Declaration of Independence—asserts that every human is granted unalienable rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, and it was that assertion that formed the frame of the United States legal system.



However, many early laws were exclusionary, affording rights only to a few. It took hundreds of years for some inhabitants to be considered legally human and even longer for them to be afforded the same unalienable rights as inscribed by Thomas Jefferson.



Over time, the moral push of activists and natural law proponents led to the ratification of some laws and the enactment of others, such as the Civil Rights Act, to blanket every human with the ability to exercise these rights and freedoms.


  Examples of Natural Law In Economics   

Because natural law as an ethical theory can be understood to be an extension of scientific and rational inquiry into how the world works, the laws of economics can be understood as natural laws of how economies “should” operate. Moreover, to the extent that economic analysis is used to prescribe (or proscribe) public policy or how businesses ought to conduct themselves, the practice of applied economics must rely at least implicitly on some ethical assumptions:



Early economists of the medieval period, including Thomas Aquinas and the Scholastic monks of the School of Salamanca, heavily emphasized natural law as an aspect of economics in their theories of the just price of an economic good. 
John Locke based his theories related to economics on a version of natural law, arguing that people have a natural right to claim unowned resources and land as private property, thereby transforming them into economic goods by mixing them with their labor. 
Adam Smith (1723–1790) is renowned as the founder of modern economics. In Smith's first major treatise, "The Theory of Moral Sentiments," he described a "system of natural liberty" as being the matrix of true wealth. Many of Smith's ideas are still taught today, including his three natural laws of economics:



The Law of Self-Interest: People work for their own good.The Law of Competition: Competition forces people to make a better product.The Law of Supply and Demand: Enough goods would be produced at the lowest possible price to meet demand in a market economy.




What Is the Theory of Natural Law?
Natural law is a theory of ethics that says that human beings possess intrinsic values that govern our reasoning and behavior. It states that there are universal moral standards that are seen across time periods and societies because these standards form the basis of a just society.




What Are Examples of Natural Law In Systems of Government?
In the U.S. Constitution, the right of citizens to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness is a motto based on natural law. In the penal code, certain crimes are almost universally accepted as punishable, including murder and rape. These types of crimes are seen as damaging both the humanity of the victim and the social fabric of society.




How Does Natural Law Affect Business?
Natural law is seen in the concept of ethical business practices, especially the principle that a firm should not defraud its customers or other stakeholders. For instance, the marketing of drugs should be made with full disclosure of potential harms and not be sold as "snake oil."




What Are Some Flaws In Natural Law Theory?
Since natural law assumes universalizing rules, it does not account for the fact that different people or different cultures may view the world differently. For instance, if people interpret differently what it means for something to be fair or just, the results will differ.


   The Bottom Line  

Natural law is an ethical theory that claims that humans are born with a certain moral compass that guides behaviors. These inherited rules essentially distinguish the "rights" and "wrongs" in life. Under natural law, everyone is afforded the same rights, such as the right to live and the right to happiness. Natural law is evident in and shapes many of our laws, business policies, and human rights agendas. However, unlike these systems, its rules do not change and are inherently assigned to everyone.
What Is a Natural Monopoly?  

A natural monopoly is a type of monopoly in an industry or sector with high barriers to entry and start-up costs that prevent any rivals from competing. As such, a natural monopoly has only one efficient player. This company may be the only provider of a product or service in an industry or geographic location. Natural monopolies can arise in industries that require unique raw materials, technology, or similar factors to operate.





Key Takeaways

A natural monopoly is a type of monopoly that arises due to unique circumstances where high start-up costs and significant economies of scale lead to only one firm being able to efficiently provide the service in a certain territory.A company with a natural monopoly might be the only provider or product or service in an industry or geographic location.Natural monopolies are allowed when a single company can supply a product or service at a lower cost than any potential competitor but are often heavily regulated to protect consumers.


   Understanding Natural Monopolies  

A natural monopoly becomes a monopoly over time due to market conditions and without any unfair business practices that might stifle competition. It generally happens when there are high start-up costs or powerful economies of scale that come with conducting a business in a specific industry. These barriers can prevent potential competitors from entering the market.



There are two main factors that can lead to this type of monopoly:



When a company takes advantage of an industry's high barriers to entry to create a moat or protective wall around its business operations. The high barriers to entry are often due to the significant amount of capital or cash needed to purchase fixed assets, which are physical assets a company needs to operate.
When producing at a large scale is so much more efficient than small-scale production, that a single large producer is sufficient to satisfy all available market demands. Because their costs are higher, small-scale producers can simply never compete with the larger, lower-cost producer.



The natural monopoly of a single large producer is also the most economically efficient way to produce a good or service in question. This is not due to large-scale fixed assets or investments but can be the result of the simple first-mover advantage, increasing returns to centralizing information and decision-making, or network effects.  An example is electricity transmission where once a grid is set up to deliver electric power to all of the homes in a community, putting in a second, redundant grid to compete makes little sense.






Some monopolies use tactics to gain an unfair advantage by using collusion, mergers, acquisitions, and hostile takeovers. Collusion might involve two rival competitors conspiring together to gain unfair market advantage through coordinated price-fixing or increases.


   Special Considerations  

There are regulatory agencies in each region to serve as a watchdog for the public when it comes to government-approved natural monopolies. Utilities are typically regulated by the state-run departments of public utilities or public commissions.



The U.S. Department of Transportation has broad responsibilities for the safety of travel for railroads while the U.S. Department of Energy is responsible for the oil and natural gas industries.



Keep in mind, though, that no equivalent agencies in the U.S. have been empowered to similarly regulate tech and information monopolies, nor are they governed as common carriers, though this may be a trend in the future.






Just because a company operates as a natural monopoly does not explicitly mean it is the only company in the industry. The company might have a monopoly in one region of the country. Cable companies, for example, are often regionally-based, although there has been consolidation in the industry creating national players.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Natural Monopolies  
  Advantages  

One of the benefits of natural monopolies comes from the use of an industry's limited resources efficiently to offer the lowest unit price to consumers. They can serve a good purpose when a single company can supply a product or service at a lower cost than anyone else, and at a volume that can service an entire market.



Society can benefit from certain natural monopolies. For instance, multiple utility companies wouldn't be feasible since there would need to be many distribution networks such as sewer lines, electricity poles, and water pipes for each competitor. Since it's economically sensible to have utilities operate as natural monopolies, governments allow them to exist. But the industry is heavily regulated to ensure that consumers get fair pricing and proper services.


  Disadvantages  

One of the main drawbacks to natural monopolies is that it cuts out the competition and takes away choice from consumers. This means that customers can only get certain goods and services from one provider.



Having a natural monopoly in place bars other potential players from entering the market. This is due to the high startup costs associated with doing business.



Because there is only one player in the market, regulation may be an issue—especially when it comes to monopolies that aren't approved or run by the government. As such, entities may abuse their power, increase prices, and provide poor quality customer service.





Pros

Provide goods and services at lower costs than rivals
Economically sensible



Cons

No competition
High startup costs and barriers to entry
Lack of regulation may lead to abuse of power, higher pricing, and poor customer service





   Examples of Natural Monopolies  

Companies that have a natural monopoly may sometimes exploit the benefits by restricting the supply of a product or service, inflating prices, or exerting their power in damaging ways other than through prices.



Under the common law, many natural monopolies operate as common carriers, whose business is recognized as having risks of monopoly abuse but allowed to do business as long as they serve the public interest. Common carriers are typically required to allow open access to their services without restricting supply or discriminating among customers and in return are allowed to operate as monopolies and given protection from liability for potential misuse by customers.



The following are some industries that have natural monopolies:



Utility Industry: This is a natural monopoly. The utility monopolies provide water, sewer services, electricity transmission, and energy distribution such as retail natural gas transmission to cities and towns across the country. The start-up costs associated with establishing utility plants and the distribution of their products are substantial. As a result, the capital cost is a strong deterrent for potential competitors.
Internet Providers: A service platform might use its monopoly power over information, online interactions, and commerce to exercise undue influence over what people can see, say, or sell online. Regulations over natural monopolies are often established to protect the public from any misuse by natural monopolies.
Telephone Companies: Companies that provide landline services are required to offer households within their territory phone service without discriminating based on the manner or content of a person’s phone conversations and are in return generally not held liable if their customers abuse the service by making prank phone calls. 
Railroads: The railroad industry is government-sponsored, meaning their natural monopolies are allowed because it's more efficient and in the public's best interest to help it flourish. Further, the industry can't support two or more major players given the unique resources needed, such as land for railroad tracks, train stations, and their high-cost structures.



More modern examples of natural monopolies include social media platforms, search engines, and online retailing. Companies such as Meta (formerly Facebook), Google, and Amazon have built natural monopolies for various online services due in large part to first-mover advantages, network effects, and natural economies of scale involved with handling large quantities of data and information. Unlike traditional utilities, these types of natural monopolies so far have gone virtually unregulated in most countries.




How Do Natural Monopolies Work?
A natural monopoly is a monopoly where there is only one provider of a good or service in a certain industry. It occurs when one company or organization controls the market for a particular offering. This type of monopoly prevents potential rivals from entering the market due to the high cost of starting up and other barriers.




How Is a Natural Monopoly Different From a Regular Monopoly?
As the name implies, a natural monopoly exists naturally. Market forces allow one player in the market to become the only player in a certain industry without stifling the competition. Regular monopolies, on the other hand, are created when a company controls the market by eliminating the competition. This happens when a key player buys up the supply chain and buys its rivals. Monopolies may lead to the removal of substitute products and services, higher prices, and low-quality products.




What Are Some of the Most Common Types of Natural Monopolies?
The most common types of natural monopolies include those found in the telecommunications center, the utility industry, oil and gas companies, and the railroad industry.


   The Bottom Line  

Monopolies can be both a boon and a blessing to consumers and the market in general. Unlike regular monopolies, natural monopolies occur because market forces shape the industry to the point where there is only one key player that offers a specific good or service to the public. Even though this type of monopoly is allowed to exist, the barriers for potential rivals to enter the market can be high. Some of the most common examples of natural monopolies include utilities and railroads.
What Is Natural Selection?  

In modern biology, natural selection is a process whereby species which have traits that enable them to adapt in an environment survive and reproduce, and then pass on their genes to the next generation. Natural selection means that species that can adapt to a specific environment will grow in numbers and eventually greatly outnumber those species that cannot adapt.



The natural selection process enables a species to better adapt to its environment by changing its genetic configuration with every new generation. These changes are gradual and may occur over thousands of years, although in some instances natural selection may occur much faster, especially in species with short life spans and rapid reproduction rates.



When natural selection is applied conceptually in the field of finance, the assumption is that over the long term, only those companies that can respond and successfully adapt to changes in the financial and business environment will survive.





Key Takeaways

In modern biology, natural selection is a process whereby species that have traits that enable them to adapt in an environment survive and reproduce, and then pass on their genes to the next generation.Natural selection applied in a financial context assumes that companies that are able to adapt will thrive, while those who fail to adapt may face a shrinking market share or bankruptcy in the long term.


   Understanding Natural Selection  

One of the most well-known examples of natural selection in the field of biology is that of the English peppered moth. Although the English peppered moth has always existed in a variety of colors, until the Industrial Revolution in England, the light gray, spotted variety was the most abundant. That's because these moths could easily camouflage against the background of a lichen of a similar color that grew abundantly in their environment. Conversely, dark-winged versions of the moths were easy targets for birds and other predators.﻿﻿



The Industrial Revolution, which occurred between approximately 1760 and 1840, produced massive amounts of air pollution. This air pollution killed some of the lichen-covering of rocks in the moths' environment. At the same time, some lighter-colored buildings turned black from air pollution. As a result, the lighter gray-colored moths could no longer blend in with their surroundings as easily and were more readily spotted by predators, which led to their near-extinction. The dark-winged variety was now better-camouflaged and ended up surviving in greater numbers than the light-winged variation of the moth.﻿﻿



When applied in a financial context, natural selection means that, due to the dynamism and complexity of the business environment, only a handful of companies can remain in business for long periods of time. Companies that don't adapt may experience a potentially decreasing market share due to increased or improving competition. Over a period of time, if a company is unable to adapt, they may end up in bankruptcy. If a trader or investor doesn't adapt to changing market conditions, they will lose money, and if they fail to adapt over an extended period of time they may be forced out of the market as their capital dwindles to nothing.



Natural selection is a dynamic and ongoing process. While the ability to adapt to recent changes in the industry may be a good indicator of a company's or trader's overall aptitude, it does not guarantee that they will be able to adapt to all future changes in the business environment.


   Example of Natural Selection  

During the credit crisis of 2008, several brokerage firms suffered a similar fate of bankruptcy. As a result of this dramatic deterioration in the financial landscape, Bear Stearns (founded in 1923), Merrill Lynch (founded in 1914), and Lehman Brothers (founded in 1850) were all unable to retain the independence they had experienced for decades. They were all either acquired by larger banks (Bear Stearns by JPMorgan Chase,﻿﻿ and Merrill Lynch by Bank of America)﻿﻿ or forced into bankruptcy (Lehman Brothers).﻿﻿


   The Bottom Line  

Before the financial collapse of 2008, the collective assumption was that certain institutions were "too big to fail." Unfortunately, the events of 2008 proved that when it comes to natural selection, size doesn't always matter. Much more important is flexibility and the ability for a business or an investor to swiftly recognize and adapt to changing business environments.
What Is the Natural Unemployment Rate?  

The natural unemployment rate is the minimum unemployment rate resulting from real or voluntary economic forces. Natural unemployment reflects workers moving from job to job, the number of unemployed replaced by technology, or those lacking the skills to gain employment.





Key Takeaways

The natural unemployment rate is the minimum unemployment rate resulting from real or voluntary economic forces.It represents the number of people unemployed due to the structure of the labor force, such as those replaced by technology or those who lack the skills to get hired.Natural unemployment is commonplace in the labor market as workers flow to and from jobs or companies.Unemployment is not considered natural if it is cyclical, institutional, or policy-based unemployment.Because of natural unemployment, 100% full employment is unattainable in an economy.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Understanding Natural Unemployment  

The term “full employment” is often a target to achieve when the U.S. economy is performing well. The term is a misnomer because there are always workers looking for employment, including new college graduates or those displaced by technological advances. There is always movement of labor throughout the economy that represents natural unemployment.



Unemployment is not considered natural if it is cyclical, institutional, or policy-based unemployment. An economic crash or steep recession might increase the natural unemployment rate if workers lose the skills necessary to find full-time work or if certain businesses close and are unable to reopen due to excessive loss of revenue. Economists call this effect “hysteresis.”



Important contributors to the theory of natural unemployment include Milton Friedman, Edmund Phelps, and Friedrich Hayek, all Nobel prize recipients. The works of Friedman and Phelps were instrumental in developing the non-accelerating inflation rate of unemployment (NAIRU).






Natural unemployment can occur from both voluntary and involuntary factors. Hysteresis often occurs following extreme or prolonged economic events such as a recession, where the unemployment rate may continue to increase despite economic growth.


   Causes of Natural Unemployment  

Economists commonly held that if unemployment existed, it was due to a lack of demand for labor or workers and the economy would need to be stimulated through fiscal or monetary measures. However, history reveals the natural flow of workers to and from companies even during robust economic periods.





Full Employment

Full employment means 100% of the workforce is employed. History shows that this is unattainable as workers move from job to job. A zero unemployment rate is also undesired as it requires an inflexible labor market, where workers cannot quit their current job or leave to find a better one.



According to the general equilibrium model of economics, natural unemployment is equal to the level of unemployment in a labor market at perfect equilibrium. This is the difference between workers who want a job at the current wage rate and those willing and able to perform such work. Under this definition of natural unemployment, it is possible for institutional factors, such as the minimum wage or high degrees of unionization, to increase the natural rate over the long run.






   Effects of Inflation on Unemployment  

John Maynard Keynes wrote The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money in 1936, leading many economists to believe there is a direct relationship between the level of unemployment in an economy and the level of inflation.



This direct relationship was formally codified in the Phillips curve, which showed that unemployment moved in the opposite direction of inflation. If the economy was to be fully employed, there must be inflation, and conversely, with periods of low inflation, unemployment must increase or persist.



The Phillips curve fell out of favor after the great stagflation of the 1970s. During stagflation, unemployment and inflation both rise, questioning the implied correlation between strong economic activity and inflation, or between deflation and unemployment.




What Is Natural vs. Cyclical Unemployment?
The cyclical unemployment rate is the difference between the natural unemployment rate and the current rate of unemployment as defined by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.




Why Is the Natural Unemployment Rate Significant?
The natural rate of unemployment is considered the lowest acceptable level that a healthy economy can sustain without creating inflation.




How Does a Recovering Economy Impact the Natural Unemployment Rate?
The natural rate of unemployment typically rises after a downturn in the economy or a recession as workers become more confident that they can move from job to job.


   The Bottom Line  

The natural unemployment rate is the minimum unemployment rate stemming from real or voluntary economic forces. It is common in the labor market as workers flow to and from jobs or companies, and because of natural unemployment, full employment is unattainable in an economy. Unemployment is not considered natural if it is cyclical, institutional, or policy-based unemployment.
What Is NAV Return?  

The NAV return is the change in the net asset value of a mutual fund or ETF over a given time period. The NAV return of a mutual fund is one measure of return and can be different than the total return or the market return that investors realize because these products can trade at a premium or discount in the market to the fund's computed NAV.





Key Takeaways

The net asset value (NAV) return is a way of computing an ETF's or mutual fund's performance over time by looking at the value of its components.Rather than taking the fund's market value change or total return, a NAV return uses the fund's change in net asset value over time instead.NAV can differ from a fund's market price since it is computed end-of-day, while the securities held inside of a fund trade throughout each trading day.


   Understanding NAV Return  

The NAV return is calculated based on the daily NAV of the fund reported after the stock market's close each trading day. The NAV is a basic calculation performed by the fund's accountants. It represents the total assets minus total liabilities divided by outstanding shares. The value changes daily with the fluctuation of assets based on market value. The NAV return is a transparent accounting measure that reports the actual assets in the fund at the end of the day. Therefore, dividends, interest, and capital gains distributions paid out to shareholders would not be included in the total assets unless they were reinvested.



The total return of a mutual fund provides a performance figure that includes distribution payouts. Therefore, it accounts for distributions associated with the fund that are paid out to shareholders regardless of whether or not these distributions are reinvested in the total assets of the fund. Distribution payouts are the primary reason an investor will see variations in NAV versus total return.



Investment funds that trade on exchanges with daily pricing, such as closed-end funds and exchange-traded funds, may also have a market price and a market return. Funds trading in real time with a market price can incur a market premium or discount that causes their market return to vary from the NAV return. Funds trading above their NAV are said to trade at a premium. Funds trading below their NAV are trading at a discount. Premiums and discounts may occur due to the real-time valuations of securities in the fund versus their daily NAV. Funds typically trade close to their NAV with some deviation. If a fund varies excessively from its NAV, then authorized participants may intervene to help correct the price.


   NAV Return and Fund Performance Reporting  

Investment companies provide transparency in their fund performance reporting to help investors identify the NAV return, total return, and market return. Investors should monitor the returns they use to track the performance of their investments. Ensuring understanding of fund performance calculations will help an investor's due diligence and performance comparisons. 



Most closed-end funds and ETFs will provide performance reporting that includes both the NAV return and the market value return. The Guggenheim Strategic Opportunities Fund provides one example of a closed-end fund. The Fund's investments are based on both quantitative and qualitative analysis. Investments span across asset classes including fixed income, equity, and preferred stock. As of July 1, 2021, the Fund was reporting a 26.69% premium to NAV. It's closing NAV on July 1 was $17.16 versus a closing market value price of $21.74. The Fund also has a 52-week average premium of 16.56%.
What Is Near-Field Communication (NFC)?  

Near-field communication (NFC) is a short-range wireless technology that makes your smartphone, tablet, wearables, payment cards, and other devices even smarter. Near-field communication is the ultimate technology solution for connectivity.



With NFC, you can transfer information between devices quickly and easily with a single touch—whether paying bills, exchanging business cards, downloading coupons, or sharing a research paper.





Key Takeaways

Near-field communication (NFC) is a short-range wireless connectivity technology that lets NFC-enabled devices communicate with each other.Such devices include mobile phones, tablets, laptops, and wearables.NFC began in the payment-card industry and is evolving to include applications in numerous industries worldwide.It can also let you share content, establish or confirm a wireless connection, pair devices, connect Bluetooth-enabled devices and smartphones to other devices and computers and establish connections between two networked machines or devices.NFC technology can operate in one of three primary modes: reader/writer, peer-to-peer, or card emulation.


   Understanding Near-Field Communication (NFC)  

Near-field communication transmits data through electromagnetic radio fields to enable two devices to communicate with each other. To work, both devices must contain NFC chips, as transactions take place within a very short distance. NFC-enabled devices must be either physically touching or within a few centimeters of each other for data transfer to occur.



Because the receiving device reads your data the instant you send it, near-field communications (NFCs) greatly reduce the chance of human error. Rest assured, for example, that you cannot purchase something unknowingly because of a pocket-dial or by walking past a location that's embedded with an NFC chip (called a "smart poster"). With near-field communication, you must perform an action intentionally.



In fact, even after NFC technology becomes universal, users may still need to carry a backup payment method; you cannot do much of anything with a device whose battery is drained. Whether this would be a permanent downside to NFC technology, however, remains to be seen.






As with any evolving technology, retailers need time to ramp up their equipment to be able to process NFC transactions; so for now, consumers should still carry cash or payment cards.


   How Does Near-Field Communication Technology Work?  

NFC technology works by combining four key elements: an NFC microchip within a device, which acts as an antenna and receiver; a reader/writer that scans and allows NFC devices to access data; an NFC software application on the device that can use data received by the NFC chip; and an information or communications service provider (ISP) that manages all device communications that occur through the ISP.



NFC is an extension of RFID technology, which relies on radio waves to track goods, supplies, and merchandise. NFC replaces RFID chips with microchips that have the ability to store and encrypt information. While RFID devices are passive and so lack the ability to access information, NFC-enabled devices do.



For example, you can pay for purchases using NFC-enabled debit and credit cards. When you tap your card on an NFC-compliant payment terminal, data is transmitted between your card and the payment processing system to complete the transaction.



An NFC-enabled device can operate under three different modes: reader/writer mode, peer-to-peer mode, and card emulation mode.


  Reader/Write Mode  

A reader/writer is an NFC-enabled device that manages and coordinates information sent between and received by two or more NFC devices and a handful of other devices that do not yet feature NFC technology. Examples of reader/writers include point-of-sale (POS) systems, cell phones, tablets, and RFID-enabled cards. In reader/writer mode, NFC-enabled devices communicate and exchange data based on instructions from the reader/writer.


  Peer-to-Peer Mode  

This P2P mode enables two NFC-enabled devices to exchange information directly. For example, a peer-to-peer device may exchange data with an RFID-enabled device or some other type of NFC device without the assistance of a reader/writer.


  Card Emulation Mode  

In this mode, an NFC-enabled device functions as an NFC payment card or virtual credit/debit card. When an NFC-enabled device is activated in this mode, it emulates a payment card or other physical card in card readers, magnetic-stripe readers, and contactless card readers used to make payments directly from your mobile device.


   History of NFC  

Perhaps near-field communication is best known as the technology that lets consumers pay retailers and each other with their cell phones. NFC drives payment services like Google Wallet (NASDAQ: GOOG) and Apple Pay (NASDAQ: AAPL), for example. Although NFC is not currently present in the Amazon Echo (NASDAQ: AMZN), this is a good example of where near-field communications could be useful. Take wanting to tap-to-pay for a pizza (or anything) that you just ordered through the Echo, for example. 



Near-field communication technology is rooted in radio-frequency identification (RFID), which has been used for decades by retailers to tag and track products within stores. Near-field communication technology began to gain steam in 2004 when Nokia (NYSE: NOK), Philips (NYSE: PHG), and Sony (NYSE: SNE) banded together to form the NFC Forum, a nonprofit organization that's committed to bringing the convenience of NFC technology to all aspects of life. In 2006, the Forum formally outlined the architecture for NFC technology, whose specifications continue to provide a road map for all interested parties to create powerful new consumer-driven products.



Nokia released the first NFC-enabled phone in 2007, and by 2010, the telecommunications sector had launched more than 100 NFC pilot projects. In 2017, New York City's Metropolitan Transit Authority (MTA) phased in a system that enables riders to pay their subway fares with NFC technology; and the rest, as they say, "is history."


   Benefits of NFC  

There are several benefits of deploying NFC technology. These include :


  Convenience  

NFC-enabled devices can replace any card or cash that can make a transaction. Because NFC-enabled devices can store multiple credit cards, for example, you do not need to carry all of them in your purse or wallet; instead, you can pay for purchases by accessing your virtual wallet on your NFC-enabled device.


  Security  

NFC uses 128-bit or higher encryption to guarantee security and privacy of transactions. Because NFC uses tokenization instead of storing credit card information, for example, no retailer can see your credit card number.


  Sharing  

Sharing content, goods, and money with friends and family is easier when you grant them access to your NFC-enabled device. For example, if you send a file to an NFC-enabled device with peer-to-peer sharing enabled, the file will be sent immediately.


  Targeted & Context-Specific Advertising  

NFC technology can be used by advertisers to deliver targeted ads to consumers' NFC-enabled devices. When consumers tap an ad displayed on a device, an advertisement can be customized to that person's interests, location, or other personal information.


   NFC Drawbacks and Security Risks  

Although NFC technology offers many advantages, it also has some drawbacks and potential risks. These incliude :


  Power Constraints  

Because NFC-enabled devices rely on battery power, they must be charged periodically. This could result in users forgetting to charge their devices before placing or receiving payment for a purchase. And if a device runs out of power during a transaction, the transaction may be interrupted or the transaction may be incomplete or unsuccessful.


  Security Concerns  

When NFC operates in a peer-to-peer mode and because NFC-enabled devices store personal information, these devices are vulnerable to security breaches, including cybercrime and digital pickpocketing.



Hackers and cyber criminals can try to access NFC-enabled devices. They may develop malicious software that can steal confidential information from these devices. Furthermore, hackers can create tokens that mimic an NFC-enabled device and gain access to this sensitive information.


  Digital Pickpocketing  

One of the primary uses for NFC technology today is pay-by-phone. Because NFC-enabled phones are used frequently to make payments, digital pickpockets could use these programs to steal credit card information from unsuspecting customers by intercepting payment information.



Although cybercrime and digital pickpocketing are major vulnerabilities of NFC technology, there are steps you can take to protect yourself. First, make sure that the NFC-enabled devices you carry have the latest security features including 128-bit encryption and two-factor authentication. If you lose a device or suspect it has been compromised, immediately change your passwords and disable all sharing and peer-to-peer sharing features.


   NFC: Beyond the Payment Process  

With its ever-expanding boundaries, near-field communications have a wide variety of uses beyond simplifying and accelerating the payment process. Today, hundreds of millions of contactless cards and readers worldwide use NFC technology in myriad applications—from securing networks and buildings to monitoring inventory and sales, preventing auto theft, keeping tabs on library books, and running unmanned toll booths.



NFC is behind the cards that we wave over card readers in subway turnstiles and on buses. It is present in speakers, household appliances, and other electronic devices that we monitor and control through our smartphones. With just a touch, NFC can also set up WiFi and Bluetooth devices throughout our homes.






The first use of NFC technology was for contactless payment systems. NFC-enabled credit and debit cards were introduced in the early 2000s, allowing customers to make payments by simply holding their card near a payment terminal.


   NFCs Offer Near- and Long-Term Solutions  

Near-field communications are proving useful in numerous industries and have far-reaching implications.


  Healthcare  

Monitoring Patient Stats: NFC opens up new possibilities for home monitoring, as NFC-enabled wristbands can be configured to track patients' vital signs. The patient taps the wristband on a smartphone or tablet, and her medical data is transmitted to the doctor’s office, where a medical professional can check it. With their simple instructions, “just touch,” NFC-enabled devices could let patients of every age monitor their health status autonomously.Patient Care-Management: NFC in the hospital setting lets medical staff track where people are, and who’s done what. Staff can know, in real-time, where a patient is, when the nurse last visited, or what treatment a doctor just administered. NFC-enabled wristbands can replace patients' traditional hospital identification bracelets and can be updated with real-time information, such as when a medication was last given, or which procedure needs to be performed when.


  Airlines  

In 2012, Japan Airlines (OTCMKTS: JAPSY) became the first commercial airline worldwide to allow passengers to tap standard NFC phones to pass through boarding gates in lieu of paper boarding passes. The customer experience in airports that use NFC technology is enhanced significantly, as NFC can shorten the boarding of a 450-person plane to just 15 minutes—a process that normally takes 40 minutes without the use of NFC.


  Hospitality, Travel, and Leisure  

In the hospitality industry, a hotel may manage building and room access centrally in real-time, without the need for physical delivery of key cards. Instead, you just hold your phone up to the door lock. Using NFC technology, a hotel can send access rights to a guest's room directly to his or her mobile device in advance of their arrival. An NFC hospitality application can include other functions, too, such as booking a room and skipping the check-in phase.




What Does NFC Do on My Phone?
Enabling NFC on your phone allows you to make touchless payments using your device. It also allows you to share or receive information wirelessly, interact with RFID-enabled cards (like transit cards that contain microchips), and be used with other enabled devices like room keys, and so on.




Should NFC Be on or Off?
Because NFC draws battery power, and because it could pose potential security risks such as digital pickpocketing, NFC should usually be turned off when not in use.




Is NFC Dangerous?
There is no evidence to suggest that NFC technology is harmful to your health. NFC, or near-field communication, is a type of wireless technology that allows devices to exchange data over short distances. It operates at a frequency of 13.56 MHz, which is considered to be a low-power frequency. While some studies have shown that long-term exposure to certain types of radio frequency (RF) radiation can have negative health effects, the level of RF radiation emitted by NFC technology is so low that it is not considered to be harmful.




Can You Be Hacked Through NFC?
It is possible for an attacker to hack into a device using NFC technology, although the likelihood of this happening these days is relatively low. NFC operates over very short distances, typically less than four inches, so an attacker would need to be in close proximity to the device in order to access it. Additionally, most NFC-enabled devices are configured to only establish a connection when the user specifically allows it, so an attacker would need to trick the user into initiating the connection.However, even if an attacker is able to establish an NFC connection with a device, they would still need to find a way to exploit a vulnerability in the device's software in order to gain access. This is not necessarily an easy task, and the level of difficulty would depend on the specific device and its security measures. In general, it is always a good idea to keep your device up to date with the latest security patches and to be cautious when connecting to unfamiliar devices using NFC.


   The Bottom Line  

NFC, or near-field communication, is a type of wireless technology that allows devices to exchange data over short distances. It is commonly used for contactless payment systems, such as mobile payment apps like Apple Pay and Google Pay, as well as for access control systems, like keyless entry to buildings or hotel rooms. NFC technology is also often used in marketing, allowing businesses to provide customers with information or offers through their NFC-enabled smartphones.



The technology operates at a low-power frequency and is not considered to be harmful to human health. When using a smartphone or tablet, NFC is as safe as any other wireless technology such as WiFi or Bluetooth. However, enabling NFC can drain your battery, and skillful hackers may be able to hack your device or "digital pickpocket" you from close range. As a result, it is often smart to keep the NFC feature turned off while it is not needed.
What Is Near Money?  

Near money, sometimes referred to as quasi-money or cash equivalents, is a financial economics term describing non-cash assets that are highly liquid and easily converted to cash.





Key Takeaways

Near money refers to non-cash assets that can be easily converted to cash.Financial analysts view near money as an important concept for testing liquidity.Central banks utilize the concept of near money in classifying assets as either M1, M2, or M3.


   Understanding Near Money  

Near money is a term that analysts use to understand and quantify the liquidity and nearness of liquidity for financial assets. Near money considerations are viewed in a variety of market scenarios. Understanding near money and the nearness of near moneys is essential in corporate financial statement analysis and money supply management. Near money can also be important in all types of wealth management as its analysis provides a barometer for cash liquidity, cash equivalents conversion, and risk.



Near money and near moneys (or near monies) comprehensively have been influencing financial analysis and economic considerations for decades. Financial analysts view near money as an important concept for testing liquidity. Central banks and economists utilize the concept of near money in determining the different levels of the money supply, with the nearness of near moneys serving as a factor for classifying assets as either M1, M2, or M3.



Near moneys generally refer to all of an entity's near money comprehensively. The nearness of near moneys will vary depending on the actual time frames to cash conversion. Other factors affecting near money may also include transactional fees or penalties involved with withdrawals.



Examples of near money assets include savings accounts, certificates of deposit (CDs), foreign currencies, money market accounts, marketable securities, and Treasury bills (T-bills). In general, near money assets included in near money analysis will vary depending on the type of analysis.


   Personal Wealth Management  

In personal wealth management, near money can be an important consideration influencing an investor’s risk tolerance. Near money generally includes assets that an investor can easily convert to cash within a few days or months. Investors who depend heavily on the high liquidity of near money will choose very low-risk, short-term near money options such as high-yield savings accounts, money market accounts, six-month CDs, and T-bills, which offer low annual returns with little risk of loss.



Investors who have higher cash stockpiles can potentially expand out the nearness of near moneys further to gain higher returns. For example, two-year CDs have a longer maturity horizon with a greater expected return and are therefore farther out on the spectrum than a six-month CD.



Beyond low-risk near money choices, investors also have higher-risk options such as stocks. These investments can be converted to cash through market trading in approximately a few days, giving them very short-term nearness. However, the volatility and risk of stock investments can mean investors have less to cash out for an immediate need.


   Corporate Liquidity  

The concept of near money and nearness of near moneys is an integral part of financial statement analysis for businesses. It is found in the core of balance sheet liquidity analysis. Here, the nearness of near moneys is exemplified through two essential ratios: the quick ratio and the current ratio.



The quick ratio looks at assets with the shortest nearness, usually 90 days. These assets include cash equivalents, marketable securities, and accounts receivable. Dividing the combination of these quick assets by current liabilities provides the ratio of a company’s most liquid assets to its current liabilities.



Often viewed in two ways, this ratio shows the value of quick assets per $1 of current liabilities or the coverage level of quick assets to current liabilities. In general, the higher the quick ratio, the more capable a company is of covering its current liabilities with its most liquid assets.



The current ratio pushes slightly farther out on the nearness spectrum with assets that are less liquid than quick assets but still convertible to cash within one year. The current ratio examines a company’s liquidity over a one-year time horizon by dividing all of a company’s current assets by its current liabilities.


   The Money Supply  

Economists’ analysis and integrations of money supply techniques expand further on the nearness of near moneys concept by breaking down near money assets into nearness tiers. These tiers are classified as M1, M2, and M3.



The Federal Reserve (Fed) generally has three levers it can use to influence money supply. These levers are open market operations, the federal funds rate, and bank reserve requirements. Adjusting one or all of these levers can affect the money supply and its different tiers. Thus, money supply levels can be important in comprehensive central bank policy analysis.



When making central bank decisions, Federal economists will usually consider M1, M2, and M3 implications.



M1 focuses on cash and excludes near money. Also referred to as narrow money, it includes cash, coins, demand deposits, and all checking account assets. 
The M2 money supply includes near money and has intermediate nearness. It includes everything in M1, plus savings deposits, time deposits under $100,000, and retail money market funds. 
M3 is the broadest assessment of the money supply. Also known as broad money, it has the longest conversion allowance. M3 includes M1 and M2, plus longer-term and larger time deposits, as well as institutional money market funds. 



In the U.S. the Fed primarily uses M1 and M2 statistics for policy considerations. The Fed stopped reporting M3 in 2006.






Near money is considered part of the M2 money supply.


   Money vs. Near Money  

In all assessments of near money, it can be important to make the distinction between money and near money. Money includes cash in hand or cash in the bank that can be obtained on demand for use as a medium of transactional exchange. Near money requires some time to cash conversion.



Individuals and businesses need to have cash money available to meet immediate obligations. In central bank analysis, M1 is primarily composed of real money. Near money is not cash, but rather assets that can be easily converted to cash.



The realm of near money assets will vary depending on the type of analysis. The nearness of near moneys will also be a factor for consideration when making all types of financial decisions.
What Is Near Term?  

The near term is a period of time not far into the future. The term is used to describe events that may occur soon. In finance, the term is often used to explain the timeframe during which an event or change is expected to occur. Traders will often use the term "near term" when expecting a price move to happen in the near future, or when a trade is taken for only a small amount of time.





Key Takeaways

The near term is a period of time not far into the future.Near term can also be thought of as short term; a day trader, for example, is a near- or short-term trader.Businesses and economists also use the near term to refer to things or data points that will occur or be revealed over the next several months.The near term doesn't have a precise time attached to it. For some, the near term is a few months, while for some active traders the near term may be minutes or hours.


   Understanding Near Term  

Financial market analysts and traders may use "near term" in reference to events that may be coming up in the near future, such as company earnings, or a price move in a stock that is expected soon. If an event or a price move is not expected for a while, then that event doesn't occur in the near term.



Similarly, a day trader or swing trader will typically be taking near-term trades. Those are trades that have a short duration. This is in direct contrast to a long-term trader who buys assets and holds them for an extended period of time.



Near-term investments or trades include buying any asset with the intention of only holding it for a few weeks (possibly months) or less. Also, a trader may buy options or futures with a near-term expiry, which makes it a short-term trade.






Buying a bond close to maturity makes it a near-term bond purchase.



There is no definitive time frame on what the near term is. Some may refer to the near term as anything less than a few months. A day trader may refer to the near term as the next five or ten minutes.



In economics, the near term may refer to a level of growth in a common indicator such as gross domestic product (GDP), inflation, consumer spending, or the cost of labor.



As an example, the Federal Reserve may monitor the near-term level of weekly employment data to gauge whether or not to change interest rate policy at an upcoming meeting. It is near-term data because it comes out weekly.



Congress may be waiting to receive the monthly trade deficit numbers before deciding whether to pass related economic legislation. Since the data is released monthly, waiting to see what the next one or two data points say would be considered the near term.



When discussing business, the near term may refer to an active or soon-to-be active period of time. The current business quarter could be referred to as the near term, since everything that happens in that quarter will occur over the next three months.



If a business is getting ready to launch a new product or marketing campaign within the next few months, that would also be a near-term initiative, even though it may have been in the works for months or years.


   Near Term in Trading Example  

Consider the following hypothetical scenario. It's the start of April, and a trader is considering taking a trade in Apple (AAPL) in anticipation of its earnings release on April 28. The trader is bullish and wants to have a long position in advance of the earnings release, which they believe will be favorable and push the stock price up.



This trader will hold the position for one week after the earnings release if the news is positive and the stock rises. If the news isn't positive and the stock drops on or after the earnings release, the trader will get out immediately and take whatever loss or profit they have.



The trader will wait for an entry point that they like prior to the April 28 earnings release. They expect that they should get into the long position by mid-April. This means that the trade will only last two to three weeks. This makes it a near-term trade, since the earnings release or event the trader is waiting for is also in the near term.
What Is "Near the Money"?  

The phrase "near the money" refers to an options contract whose strike price is close to the current market price of the corresponding underlying security. Near-the-money is synonymous with at-the-money. It is very seldom that the underlying asset's price will be exactly at the strike price.



So, near-the-money is used and the strike price can be higher or lower than the market price. "Close to the money" is an alternative phrase, designating the same situation. It is very close to being "at the money"(ATM), but not quite the same.



A call option is considered "in the money" (ITM) if its strike price is lower than the market price. However, if the strike price is higher than the market price, it would be "out of the money" (OTM). A put option's moneyness would work in opposite direction.



Also, the option's premiums would need to be accounted for before it can be deemed to be in-the-money. Near the money is one of the states of option moneyness, along with in-the-money and out-of-the-money (OTM).





Key Takeaways

A near-the-money option is one whose strike price is close to, but not at, the current underlying price.Near the money is one of the states of option moneyness, along with at the money (ATM), in the money (ITM), and out of the money (OTM).A contract that is near the money is close to being at the money but will be slightly ITM or OTM.


   Understanding Near the Money  

An options contract is said to be "near the money" when the strike price, or the price at which the option can be exercised, and the underlying security's price are close. While there is no official figure for "close," if that difference is usually less than 50 cents, the options contract is considered near the money.



For example, an option with a current market value of $20 and a strike price of $19.80 would be considered near the money, as the difference between the strike price and the market value is only 20 cents.



A contract is considered "at the money" when the strike price is equal to the market price of the underlying security. The term “near the money” is often used to mean the same thing as “at the money,” because it is rare for options prices to be at the money, or the same as the strike price, of the commodity in question. For this reason, options trading almost always uses near-the-money or nearest-the-money options rather than at-the-money options.



At or near the money options contract typically cost more (i.e., they have a higher premium) than out-of-the-money options, in which the underlying instrument's price is significantly higher or lower than the strike price. Near-the-money options contain intrinsic value if they are slightly out of the money, but can contain both intrinsic and extrinsic value if they are slightly in the money.


   Near the Money vs. At the Money  

Since it is so rare for an options price to line up exactly with the strike price for that stock, almost all at-the-money options trades will take place near the money instead. Most traders attempt to trade options when they are in the money so that they can pay less than the current market price for the stock, and make a profit.



When at the money, options have a delta value of 0.5 or -0.5 for put options. This means that the option is equally likely to either end up out of the money or in the money by the time the options contract expires. Near-the-money options will have a higher or lower delta value, depending on how close they are to the strike price.






Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is a Neckline?  

The neckline is a level of support or resistance found on a head and shoulders pattern that is used by traders to determine strategic areas to place orders. A neckline connects the swing lows (which occur following the first two peaks) of the head and shoulders topping pattern. A move below the neckline signals a breakout of the pattern and indicates that a reversal to the downside of the prior uptrend is underway.



In the case of a head and shoulders bottoming pattern, called an inverse head and shoulders, the neckline connects the two swing highs of the pattern and extends out to the right. When the price rises above the neckline it signals a breakout of the pattern and a reversal to the upside of the prior downtrend.





Key Takeaways

The neckline connects the reaction lows of a head and shoulders pattern, or the reaction highs of an inverse head and shoulders pattern.Technical analysts use necklines to predict when an asset's price has reached a top or bottom.The neckline is a straight line extended out to the right and signals the breakout or completion of the pattern when the price drops (top) or rises (inverse) through it.A neckline that is severely sloped higher or lower isn't very useful for trading or analytical purposes.


   What Does a Neckline Tell You?  

The neckline is the part of the head and shoulders chart pattern that connects the two reaction lows (topping pattern) or highs (bottoming pattern) to form an area of support or resistance. The head and shoulders chart pattern is commonly used to predict bullish or bearish reversals.



When the price breaks below the neckline of a topping pattern it means the prior uptrend is likely over, and a downtrend is underway. When the price breaks above the neckline of an inverse pattern it means the prior downtrend is likely over, and an uptrend is underway.



The neckline is a straight line that connects the lows (top) or highs (inverse) and is extended out to the right. After the head and shoulders form their third peak (top), if the price drops below the neckline, then the pattern is considered complete and a further downside move is expected.



The neckline's slope may sometimes need to be drawn at an angle, rather than horizontal. This is because the reaction lows or highs may not always be equal, and therefore, the line will take on a slope when connecting them. If the neckline is severely sloped higher or lower, then it is less useful for trading and analytical purposes.



Often, the head and shoulders pattern is used in conjunction with other forms of technical analysis that serve as confirmation, including other chart patterns or technical indicators. For example, if the relative strength index (RSI) or moving average convergence divergence (MACD) indicator was showing bearish divergence heading into the head and shoulders pattern, some traders would view that as added confirmation that the price is more likely to head lower after the downside neckline breakout.


   Head and Shoulders Pattern  

A head and shoulders pattern form after an uptrend and is composed of a peak, a retracement, a higher second peak, a retracement, a lower third peak, and a drop below the neckline.



Some traders enter short or exit long positions when the price drops below the neckline. For those entering short, a stop loss is often placed above a recent swing high or above the high of the third peak.



The estimated downside move for the head and shoulders is the height of the pattern—which is the difference between the prices of the second peak to the lowest low of the two retracements—subtracted from the neckline breakout point. This is called the price target. There are no guarantees the price will reach that level, or that it will stop falling at that level. It is just an estimate.



The same concepts apply to an inverse head and shoulders, except in reverse. The pattern forms after a downtrend and is composed of a low, a move higher, a lower low, a move up, a third higher low, and then a rally above the neckline.



Some traders enter long positions or exit short positions when the price rises above the neckline. For those entering longs, a stop loss is often placed below a recent swing low or below the low of the third low.






The height of the pattern is added to the neckline breakout point to provide an upside target.


   Example of How to Use a Neckline  

A head and shoulders pattern is formed in the GBP/USD, which is the currency exchange rate between the British pound and the U.S. dollar.



The head and shoulders pattern is formed by a first peak, a second higher peak, and then a third lower peak, with retracements in between. The neckline connects the lows of the retracements and is extended out to the right.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



Following the third peak, the price breaks below the neckline signaling further downside may be likely. The height of the pattern is subtracted from the neckline breakout point to provide an estimated price target for the move down.




How Do You Determine a Head and Shoulders Stock Pattern?
A head and shoulders pattern can be determined if prices fall below the neckline after the third peak. This is considered confirmation that a reversal is in progress, and most analysts will predict further declines.




What Does a Head and Shoulders Pattern Look Like on a Stock Chart?
A head and shoulders pattern consists of three consecutive peaks, with the second peak rising above the other two. The straight line connecting the two troughs is called the neckline. When prices fall below the neckline after the third top, the pattern is considered to be confirmed.




What Should I Do With a Head and Shoulders Stock?
In technical analysis, a head and shoulders pattern is considered a bearish sign, indicating that the asset may continue to lose value. However, it is not a foolproof indicator, and most analysts will examine other factors for confirmation.




What Does a Stock Price Do After a Head and Shoulders Pattern?
Stock prices generally fall after a head and shoulders pattern, but this is not a certainty. Technical analysts also examine trading volume, relative strength, and other metrics to gauge market sentiment.




How Do You Trade an Inverse Head and Shoulders?
An inverse head and shoulders pattern is the reverse of a head and shoulders pattern. It is usually a bullish sign, indicating that prices have reached a bottom. The conventional move is to go long after the pattern is confirmed, in anticipation of new highs.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is the Needs Approach?  

The needs approach is a way of determining the appropriate amount of life insurance coverage an individual should purchase. This approach is based on the creation of a budget of expenses that will be incurred, including funeral expenses, estate settlement costs, and replacement of a portion of future income to sustain the spouse or dependants.





Key Takeaways

The needs approach to life insurance planning is used to estimate the amount of insurance coverage an individual needs.The needs approach considers the amount of money needed to cover burial expenses as well as debts and obligations such as mortgages or college expenses.This approach stands in contrast with the human-life approach, which is more comprehensive in determining the value of an individual's future earnings potential or an individual's future earnings.


   Understanding the Needs Approach  

The needs approach is a function of two variables:



The amount that will be needed at death to meet immediate obligations.The future income that will be needed to sustain the household.



When calculating your expenses, it is best to overestimate your needs a little. For instance, the needs approach will consider any outstanding debts and obligations that should be covered, such as a mortgage or car payments. The needs approach also recognizes that the need for income replacement may gradually decline as children living at home move away, or if a spouse remarries.



The needs approach contrasts with the human-life approach. The human-life approach calculates the amount of life insurance a family will need, based on the financial loss the family would incur if the insured person were to pass away today.



The human life approach usually takes into account factors such as the insured individual's age, gender, planned retirement age, occupation, annual wage, and employment benefits, as well as the personal and financial information of the spouse and any dependent children.


   Types of Life Insurance  

Life insurance provides financial protection to surviving dependents in case of the death of an insured. As with other forms of insurance, life insurance is a contract between an insurer and a policyholder. In life insurance, the insurer guarantees payment of a death benefit to named beneficiaries.



Various types of life insurance approaches exist, including the needs approach and the human life approach. Whole life, term life, universal life, and variable universal life (VUL) policies are separate types of plans available to individuals and their families. Whole life (also known as traditional or permanent life) covers the duration of the life of the insured.



In addition to providing a death benefit, whole life also contains a savings component where cash value may accumulate. Term life guarantees payment of a death benefit during a specified term. Unlike whole life, after the term expires, the policyholder can renew for another term, convert to permanent (whole life) coverage, or let the policy terminate.



Universal life is similar to whole life insurance, yet it provides an additional investment savings element and low premiums like term life insurance. Most universal life insurance policies contain a flexible premium option, although some require a single premium (single lump-sum premium) or fixed premiums (scheduled fixed premiums).



Finally, variable universal life or VUL is a permanent life policy with a built-in savings component, which allows for the investment of the cash value. Like standard universal life, the VUL premium is flexible.
What Is Negative Amortization?  

Negative amortization is a financial term referring to an increase in the principal balance of a loan caused by a failure to cover the interest due on that loan. For example, if the interest payment on a loan is $500, and the borrower only pays $400, then the $100 difference would be added to the loan's principal balance.





Key Takeaways

A negative amortization loan is one in which unpaid interest is added to the balance of unpaid principal.Negative amortizations are common among certain types of mortgage products.Although negative amortization can help provide more flexibility to borrowers, it can also increase their exposure to interest rate risk.


   Understanding Negative Amortization  

In a typical loan, the principal balance is gradually reduced as the borrower makes payments. A negative amortization loan is essentially the reverse phenomenon, where the principal balance grows when the borrower fails to make payments.



Negative amortizations are featured in some types of mortgage loans, such as payment option adjustable-rate mortgages (ARMs), which let borrowers determine how much of the interest portion of each monthly payment they elect to pay. Any portion of interest that they opt not to pay is then added to the principal balance of the mortgage.



Another type of mortgage that incorporates negative amortizations is the so-called graduated payment mortgage (GPM). With this model, the amortization schedule is structured so that the first payments include only a portion of the interest that will later be charged. While these partial payments are being made, the missing interest portion will be added back to the principal balance of the loan. In later payment periods, the monthly payments will include the full interest component, causing the principal balance to decline more rapidly.



Although negative amortizations afford flexibility to borrowers, they can ultimately prove costly. For example, in the case of an ARM, a borrower may choose to delay paying interest for many years. Although this can help ease the burden of monthly payments in the short term, it can expose borrowers to severe future payment shock in the event that interest rates spike later on. In this sense, the total amount of interest paid by borrowers may ultimately be far greater than if they hadn't relied on negative amortizations, to begin with.


   Real-World Example of Negative Amortization  

Consider the following hypothetical example: Mike, a first-time home-buyer, wishes to keep his monthly mortgage payments as low as possible. To achieve this, he opts for an ARM, electing to pay only a small portion of the interest on his monthly payments.



Let us assume that Mike obtained his mortgage when interest rates were historically low. Despite this, his monthly mortgage payments gobble up a significant percentage of his monthly income—even when he takes advantage of the negative amortization offered by the ARM.



Although Mike's payment plan may help him manage his expenses in the short-term, it also exposes him to greater long-term interest rate risk, because if future interest rates rise, he may be unable to afford his adjusted monthly payments. Furthermore, because Mike's low-interest-payment strategy is causing his loan balance to decline more slowly than it would otherwise, he will have more principal and interest to repay in the future than if he had simply paid the full interest and principal he owed each month.






Negative amortization is alternatively referred to as "NegAm" or "deferred interest."
What Is Negative Arbitrage?  

Negative arbitrage is the opportunity lost when bond issuers assume proceeds from debt offerings and then hold that money in escrow for a period of time (usually in cash or short-term treasury investments) until the money is able to be put to use to fund a project, or to repay investors. Negative arbitrage may occur with a new bond issue or following a debt refinancing.



The opportunity cost occurs when the money is reinvested and the debt issuer earns a rate or return that is lower than what must actually be paid back to debt holders.





Key Takeaways

Negative arbitrage is an opportunity cost lost to to holding debt proceeds in escrow until a project can actually be funded.Negative arbitrage occurs if prevailing interest rates fall during this period of time, which can last from several days to years.The negative arbitrage cost is essentially the difference in the borrower's net cost to creditors less what it can earn on using those proceeds to borrow anew.Callable and refunded bonds demonstrate ways that issuers can protect against negative arbitrage.


   How Negative Arbitrage Works  

Negative arbitrage occurs when a borrower pays off its debts at a higher interest rate than the rate the borrower earns on the money set aside to repay the debt. Basically, the borrowing cost is more than the lending cost.



For example, to fund the construction of a highway, a state government issues $50 million in municipal bonds paying 6%. But while the offering is still in process, prevailing interest rates in the market fall. The proceeds from the bond issuance are subsequently invested in a money market account paying only 4.2% for a period of one year, because the prevailing market will not pay a higher rate. In this case, the issuer loses the equivalent of 1.8% interest that it could have earned or retained. The 1.8% results from negative arbitrage which is, in fact, an opportunity cost. The loss incurred by the state translates into less available funds for the highway project for its citizens.


   Negative Arbitrage and Refunding Bonds  

The concept of negative arbitrage can be shown using the example of refunding bonds. If interest rates decrease below the coupon rate on existing callable bonds, an issuer is likely to pay off the bond and refinance its debt at the lower interest rate prevalent in the market. The proceeds from the new issue (the refunding bond) will be used to settle the interest and principal payment obligations of the outstanding issue (the refunded bond). However, due to the call protection placed on some bonds which prevents an issuer from redeeming the bonds for a period of time, proceeds from the new issue are used to purchase Treasury securities held in escrow. On the call date after the call protection elapses, the Treasuries are sold and the proceeds from the sale are used to retire the older bonds.



When the yield on the Treasury securities is below the yield on the refunding bonds, negative arbitrage occurs resulting from lost investment yield in the escrow fund. When there is negative arbitrage, the result is a significantly greater issue size and the feasibility of the advance refunding is often negated. When high interest rate bonds are advance refunded with low interest rate bonds, the amount of government securities required for the escrow account will be greater than the amount of outstanding bonds being refunded. To match the debt service of the higher interest payments of the outstanding bonds with the lower interest of Treasuries, such as Treasury bills, the difference must be derived through more principal since the cash flow from the escrow must equal the cash flow on outstanding bonds to be refunded.
What Is Negative Assurance?  

Negative assurance is a determination by an auditor that a particular set of facts is believed to be accurate since no contrary evidence has been found to dispute them. Negative assurance is normally used by auditors in situations where it is not possible to positively confirm the accuracy of financial reports.



The goal of negative assurance is to confirm that no evidence of fraud has been found or that any legal accounting practices were found to be violated.





Key Takeaways

Negative assurance is a confirmation from an auditor that certain facts are accurate because there is no evidence to the contrary.When positive assurance (the proof of facts) is not applicable, negative assurance is used.The purpose of negative assurance is to confirm that no fraud or violations have been found.Negative assurance is not stating that any illegal activity did not occur, it is stating that the auditor could not find any instances of illegal activity.


   Understanding Negative Assurance  

Negative assurance usually arises in the absence of positive assurance. A positive assurance of accuracy is considered stronger and means that the auditor has done sufficient work to state that a company's financial statements provide an accurate picture of its true financial condition based on proof.



Positive assurance is required for certain audited financial reports released by public companies. Since fully auditing a public company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) is a large undertaking, a positive assurance is normally issued only when legally required.


   Special Considerations  

Negative assurance is most often issued when an accountant is asked to review certified financial statements prepared by another accountant. In this case, since another accountant has already certified the accuracy of the statements, a negative assurance is often seen as sufficient to confirm that the statements are free of material misstatements. Negative assurance opinions are also issued when an accountant is asked to review statements associated with the issuance of securities.



To issue a negative assurance opinion, the accountant must gather audit evidence directly and may not rely on indirect evidence, that is, evidence provided by a third party. The procedures used in the preparation of a negative assurance opinion are not as stringent as those required for a positive assurance opinion.






It is important to note that negative assurance is not stating that any illegal activity did not occur, it is stating that the auditor could not find any instances of illegal activity.


   Example of Negative Assurance  

Company ABC hires an auditing firm to go over its financials from the fiscal year 2019. The auditor assigned to the case looks over all the accounting documents, which include general ledgers, journals, and other various financial documents. The auditor does not check every specific entry but does a comb-through of all of the relevant information. The auditor then interviews employees and management on specific topics.



After this review, the auditor does not find any instances of fraud or any accounting violations. The auditor then issues a negative assurance that confirms no issues, errors, or misstatements were found.




What Does Negative Assurance Mean?
Negative assurance refers to the level of certainty that something is accurate because no proof to the contrary is present. In other words, since there is no proof that the information is inaccurate or that deceptive practices (e.g., fraud) occurred, it is presumed to be accurate.




What Is Positive Assurance?
Positive assurance identifies proof of facts during an audit. By documenting proof, an auditor can affirm no fraud has been committed. In the absence of positive assurance, negative assurance may be used.




What Does Assurance Mean in an Audit?
Assurance in auditing refers to the opinions issued by a professional regarding the accuracy and completeness of what's analyzed. For example, an accountant assuring that financial statements are accurate and valid asserts that they have reviewed the documents using acceptable accounting standards and principles.
What Is a Negative Bond Yield?  

A negative bond yield is when an investor receives less money at the bond's maturity than the original purchase price for the bond. A negative bond yield is an unusual situation in which issuers of debt are paid to borrow.



In other words, the depositors, or buyers of bonds, are effectively paying the bond issuer a net amount at maturity instead of earning a return through interest income.





Key Takeaways

A negative bond yield is when an investor receives less money at the bond's maturity than the original purchase price for the bond.Even when factoring in the coupon rate or interest rate paid by the bond, a negative-yielding bond means the investor lost money at maturity.Negative-yielding bonds are purchased as safe-haven assets in times of turmoil and by pension and hedge fund managers for asset allocation.


   Understanding Negative Bond Yields  

Bonds are debt instruments typically issued by corporations and governments to raise money. Investors purchase the bonds at their face value, which is the principal amount invested.



In return, investors typically get paid an interest rate—called the coupon rate—for holding the bond. Each bond has a maturity date, which is when the investor gets paid back the principal amount that was initially invested or the face value of the bond. 


  Bond Value  

Bonds that have been previously issued and sold by investors before the maturity trade on the secondary market called the bond market. Bond prices rise and fall depending on various economic and monetary conditions in an economy.



The initial price of a bond is usually its face value, which could be $100 or $1,000 per bond. However, the bond market could price the bond differently depending on a number of factors, which could include economic conditions, the supply and demand for bonds, the length of time until expiration, and the credit quality of the issuing entity. As a result, an investor might not receive the face value of the bond when they sell it.



Typically, an investor might buy a bond at a $95, for example, and receive the $100 face value at maturity. In other words, the investor would've bought the bond at a discount ($95) to the face value ($100). Negative yielding bonds would result in an investor receiving less back at maturity, meaning an investor might pay $102 for the bond and get back $100 at maturity. However, the coupon rate or interest rate paid by the bond also plays into whether the bond is negative-yielding.


  Bond Yield  

Bonds trading in the open market can effectively carry a negative bond yield if the price of the bond trades at a sufficient premium. Remember that a bond's price moves inversely with its yield or interest rate; the higher the price of a bond, the lower the yield.



The reason for the inverse relationship between price and yield is due, in part, to bonds being fixed-rate investments. Investors might sell their bonds if it's expected that interest rates will rise in the coming months and opt for the higher-rate bonds later on.



Conversely, bond investors might buy bonds, driving the prices higher, if they believe interest rates will fall in the future because existing fixed-rate bonds will have a higher rate or yield. In other words, when bond prices are rising, investors expect lower rates in the market, which increases demand for previously-issued fixed-rate bonds because of their higher yields. At some point, the price of a bond can increase sufficiently to imply a negative yield for the purchaser.


   Why Investors Buy Negative Yielding Bonds  

Investors that are interested in buying negative-yielding bonds include central banks, insurance companies, and pension funds, as well as retail investors. However, there are various distinct reasons for the purchase of negative-yielding bonds.


  Asset Allocation and Pledged Assets  

Many hedge funds and investment firms that manage mutual funds must meet certain requirements, including asset allocation. Asset allocation means that the investments within the fund must have a portion allocated to bonds to help create a diverse portfolio.



Allocating a portion of a portfolio to bonds is designed to reduce or hedge the risk of loss from other investments, such as equities. As a result, these funds must own bonds, even if the financial return is negative.



Bonds are often used to pledge as collateral for financing and as a result, need to be held regardless of their price or yield.


  Currency Gain and Deflation Risk  

Some investors believe they can still make money even with negative yields. For example, foreign investors might believe the currency's exchange rate will rise, which would offset the negative bond yield.



In other words, a foreign investor would convert their investment to a country's currency when buying the government bond and convert the currency back to the investor's local currency when selling the bond. The investor would have a gain or loss merely from the currency exchange fluctuation, irrespective of the yield and price of the bond investment.



Domestically, investors might expect a period of deflation, or lower prices in the economy, which would allow them to make money by using their savings to buy more goods and services.


  Safe Haven Assets  

Investors might also be interested in negative bond yields if the loss is less than it would be with another investment. In times of economic uncertainty, many investors rush to buy bonds because they're considered safe-haven investments. These purchases are called the flight-to-safety-trade in the bond market.



During such a time, investors might accept a negative-yielding bond because the negative yield might be far less of a loss than a potential double-digit percentage loss in the equity markets. For example, Japanese Government Bonds (JGB) are popular safe-haven assets for international investors and have, at times, paid a negative yield.


   Example of a Negative Bond Yield  

Below is an example of two bonds, one of which earns income while the other is negative-yielding by the time of the bond's maturity.



Bond ABC has the following financial attributes:



Maturity date of four yearsFace value of $100Coupon interest rate of 5%Bond price for $105



Bond ABC was purchased for a premium, meaning the price of $105 was higher than its face value of $100 to be paid at maturity. At the onset, the bond might be considered negative-yielding or a loss for the investor. However, we must include the bond's coupon rate of 5% per year or $5 to the investor.



So, although the investor paid an extra $5 for the bond initially, the $20 in coupon payments ($5 per year for four years) create a $15 net profit or a positive yield.



Bond XYZ has the following financial attributes:



Maturity date of four yearsFace value of $100Coupon interest rate of 0%Bond price for $106



Bond XYZ was also purchased for a premium, meaning the price of $106 was higher than its face value of $100 to be paid at maturity. However, the bond's coupon rate of 0% per year makes the bond negative-yielding. In other words, if investors hold the bond until maturity, they'll lose $6 ($106-$100).



The $6 loss translates to a 6% loss in percentage terms, and when spread out over the four years, it equates to a negative-yield of -1.5% (-6% / 4 years) annually.
What Is Negative Carry?  

Negative carry is a condition in which the cost of holding an investment or security exceeds the income earned while holding it. A negative carry trade or investment is often undesirable to professional portfolio managers because it means the investment is losing money as long as the principal value of the investment remains the same (or falls). However, many investors and professionals regularly enter into such conditions when they anticipate a significant payoff from holding the investment over time.



Negative carry can be contrasted with positive carry.





Key Takeaways

Negative carry is a condition where holding investments costs more than they bring in over a short-term time horizon.There may be many reasons for holding the investment, but they all include the notion of anticipated capital gains.Negative carry can exist on a wide variety of investments.


   How Negative Carry Works  

Any investment that costs more to hold than it returns in payments can result in negative carry. A negative carry investment can be a securities position (such as bonds, stocks, futures, or forex positions), real estate (such as a rental property), or even a business. Even banks can experience negative carry if the income earned from a loan is less than the bank's cost of funds. This is also called the negative cost of carry.



This measure does not include any capital gains that might occur when the asset is sold or matures. Such anticipated gains are often the primary reason negative carry investments of this nature are initiated and held.


   Examples of Negative Carry  
  Real Estate  

Owning a home is a negative carry investment for most homeowners who live in the home as their primary residence. The costs of the interest on a typical mortgage each month are more than the amount that will accrue to the principal for the first half of the mortgage term.



The cost of upkeep on the house is a financial burden as well. However, because house prices have tended to rise over the years, many homeowners experience at least some amount of capital gain by owning the home for at least a few years. 


  Borrowing and Lending  

In the professional investment world, an investor may borrow money at 6% interest to invest in a bond paying a 4% yield. In this case, the investor has a negative carry of 2% and is actually spending money to own the bond.



The only reason for doing so would be that the bond was bought at a discount compared to expected future prices. If the bond was purchased at par or above and held to maturity, the investor will have a negative return. However, if the price of the bond increases, which occurs when interest rates fall, then the investor’s capital gains could well outpace the loss in negative carry.


  Forex Markets  

Investors in the foreign exchange (forex) markets can also have a negative carry trade, called a negative carry pair. Borrowing money in a currency with high-interest rates and then investing in assets denominated in a lower interest rate currency will create the negative carry. However, if the value of the higher-yielding currency declines relative to the lower-yielding currency, then the favorable shift in exchange rates can create profits that more than offset the negative carry.



The negative carry pair in forex trading thus seeks to exploit differences in the exchange rates and interest rates associated with different currencies, and is effectively the reverse of the more popular carry trade strategy.



A trader would only initiate the negative carry trade if they believed that the low-interest currency in which they are investing will appreciate relative to the high-interest currency in which they are borrowing. In that scenario, the trader would profit when they reverse out of the initial trade: selling the currency they bought in exchange for the currency they borrowed in, then repaying their debt and pocketing the gain on the transaction.



Of course, this potential gain would need to exceed the cost of the interest payments made throughout the term of the investment in order for the entire transaction to be a success.


   Special Considerations  

One reason for purchasing a negative carry investment may be to take advantage of tax benefits. For example, suppose an investor bought a condominium and rented it out. After all expenses were added in, the rental income was $50 less than the monthly expenses.



However, because the interest payment was tax-deductible, the investor saved $150 per month on taxes. This allows the investor to hold the condo for enough time to anticipate capital gains. Since tax laws vary, such benefits will not be uniform everywhere, and when tax laws change the cost of carry may become greater.



While borrowing to invest is the typical reason for negative carry (where the carry cost is the interest), short selling can also create a negative carry situation. One example would be in a market-neutral strategy where a short position in a security is matched against a long position in another.
What Is a Negative Confirmation?  

Negative confirmation is a letter or document requesting that the recipient should only respond to the sender if there were an issue with the contents of the message or the recipient wanted to opt-out of the event that the letter had addressed.



Negative confirmation letters can be used in many types of business situations and are often used in the financial services industry. The purpose of the communication is to reduce the number of incoming responses an organization receives in reply to a letter sent to its client base. In a negative confirmation or negative consent communication situation, the company or entity sending the message only receives responses from "no" votes, as opposed to responses from everybody regardless of their opinion.



A negative confirmation can be contrasted with a positive confirmation.





Key Takeaways

Negative confirmation is a request that should only invoke a response if there are outstanding issues or concerns that need to be addressed.If there are no issues, no response is sent, and the absence of that response serves as a negative confirmation.Negative confirmation letters are often used in the financial services industry, including accountants wanting to verify a client's financial information.Negative, as opposed to positive, confirmations help to reduce the number of incoming correspondences, increasing efficiency and reducing waste.


   Understanding Negative Confirmations  

Negative confirmations are often used by auditors and involve a document sent to a sample of a company's customers, asking them to respond only if they find a discrepancy between their books and the account recorded on the financial statements of the company being audited. Negative confirmation is typically used when the accounting controls of a company have historically had very few errors and are thus considered to be strong. The company is asked to double-check the numbers and only confirm if there is a discrepancy.



Sending out a negative confirmation as opposed to a positive confirmation, which requires a response, can save time that would be spent tracking replies and following up with unresponsive recipients. The negative confirmation is merely a way for an accountant to make sure both companies are reporting the same numbers.


   Examples of Negative Confirmations  

Negative confirmations have many applications that include both accountants and financial services companies.


  Employee Retirement Plans  

Negative confirmation letters are often sent out with 401(k) plans that have an auto-escalation feature. With auto-escalation, the percentage of an employee's paycheck contributed to each pay period is automatically increased every year.



The intent of this automatically increasing savings rate is to help people save more money for retirement. A month or so before the escalation occurs, the recordkeeper sends out a negative confirmation or negative consent letter. The letter informs the participant that the contribution escalation will occur unless the participant contacts the 401(k) recordkeeper and opts out of the increase to maintain their current contribution rate.


  Accounting for Revenue  

A negative request can also be used to account for sales at a car manufacturer. According to the books, the manufacturer sold 200 cars to the dealership for a total of $6 million in revenue. The negative confirmation letter would state that if the $6 million figure was accurate, there's no need to reply. However, if the revenue amount were only $5 million, the manufacturer would need to notify the accountant of the discrepancy in the dealership's books.






Negative confirmations are a professional way of saying "don't respond to me unless there is a problem."
What Is Negative Convexity?  

Negative convexity exists when the shape of a bond's yield curve is concave. A bond's convexity is the rate of change of its duration, and it is measured as the second derivative of the bond's price with respect to its yield. Most mortgage bonds are negatively convex, and callable bonds usually exhibit negative convexity at lower yields.





Key Takeaways

Negative convexity exists when the price of a bond falls as well as interest rates, resulting in a concave yield curve. Assessing a bond's convexity is a great way to measure and manage a portfolio's exposure to market risk.


   Understanding Negative Convexity  

A bond's duration refers to the degree to which a bond's price is impacted by the rise and fall of interest rates. Convexity demonstrates how the duration of a bond changes as the interest rate changes. Typically, when interest rates decrease, a bond's price increases. However, for bonds that have negative convexity, prices decrease as interest rates fall.



For example, with a callable bond, as interest rates fall, the incentive for the issuer to call the bond at par increases; therefore, its price will not rise as quickly as the price of a non-callable bond. The price of a callable bond might actually drop as the likelihood that the bond will be called increases. This is why the shape of a callable bond's curve of price with respect to yield is concave or negatively convex.


   Convexity Calculation Example  

Since duration is an imperfect price change estimator, investors, analysts, and traders calculate a bond's convexity. Convexity is a useful risk-management tool and is used to measure and manage a portfolio's exposure to market risk. This helps to increase the accuracy of price-movement predictions.



While the exact formula for convexity is rather complicated, an approximation for convexity can be found using the following simplified formula:



Convexity approximation = (P(+) + P(-) - 2 x P(0)) / (2 x P(0) x dy ^2)



Where:



P(+) = bond price when interest rate is decreased



P(-) = bond price when interest rate is increased



P(0) = bond price



dy = change in interest rate in decimal form



For example, assume a bond is currently priced at $1,000. If interest rates are decreased by 1%, the bond's new price is $1,035. If interest rates are increased by 1%, the bond's new price is $970. The approximate convexity would be:



Convexity approximation = ($1,035 + $970 - 2 x $1,000) / (2 x $1,000 x 0.01^2) = $5 / $0.2 = 25



When applying this to estimate a bond's price using duration a convexity adjustment must be used. The formula for the convexity adjustment is:



Convexity adjustment = convexity x 100 x (dy)^2



In this example, the convexity adjustment would be:



Convexity adjustment = 25 x 100 x (0.01)^2 = 0.25



Finally, using duration and convexity to obtain an estimate of a bond's price for a given change in interest rates, an investor can use the following formula:



Bond price change = duration x yield change + convexity adjustment
What Is Negative Correlation?  

Negative correlation is a relationship between two variables in which one variable increases as the other decreases, and vice versa. In statistics, a perfect negative correlation is represented by the value -1.0, while a 0 indicates no correlation, and +1.0 indicates a perfect positive correlation. A perfect negative correlation means the relationship that exists between two variables is exactly opposite all of the time.





Key Takeaways

Negative or inverse correlation describes when two variables tend to move in opposite sizes and directions from one another, such that when one increases the other variable decreases, and vice-versa.Negative correlation is put to use when constructing diversified portfolios so that investors can benefit from price increases in certain assets when others fall.Correlation between two variables can vary widely over time as correlation changes due to many conditions.Stocks and bonds generally have a negative correlation; therefore, traditional portfolio theory calls for investors to hold both. Investing in assets that are negatively correlated may reduce portfolio risk, but it also may minimize potential gains as negatively correlated assets hedge certain types of risk. 












Investopedia / Ellen Lindner


   Understanding Negative Correlation  

Negative correlation or inverse correlation indicates that two individual variables have a statistical relationship such that their prices generally move in opposite directions from one another. If, for instance, variables X and Y have a negative correlation (or are negatively correlated), as X increases in value, Y will decrease; similarly, if X decreases in value, Y will increase.



Though this article discusses negative correlation regarding investments, negative correlation plays a factor in many facets of business and finance. For example:



Consider the relationship between household income and inferior products; as households make more money, they are more likely to consume less interior, more premium goods. Consider a human resources department noting that the less they spend on employee social events, the more likely individuals are to leave the company.Consider a manufacturing plant that incurs less on-the-job injuries as more training is incurring.



Negative correlation also has a loose function when considering the learning curve. As more time is spent learning something, it often takes less time to perform a given task. In this example, rework or failure decreases as proficiency due to learning increases.






The degree of correlation between two variables is not static, but can swing over a wide range—or from positive to negative, and vice versa—over time.


   Negative Correlation and the Correlation Coefficient  

The degree to which one variable moves in relation to the other is measured by the correlation coefficient, which quantifies the strength of the correlation between two variables. For example, if variables X and Y have a correlation coefficient of -0.1, they have a weak negative correlation, but if they have a correlation coefficient of -0.9, they would be regarded as having a strong negative correlation.



The higher the negative correlation between two variables, the closer the correlation coefficient will be to the value -1. By the same token, two variables with a perfect positive correlation would have a correlation coefficient of +1, while a correlation coefficient of zero implies that the two variables are uncorrelated and move independently of each other.



The correlation coefficient, usually denoted by "r" or "R", can be determined by regression analysis. The square of the correlation coefficient (generally denoted by "R2", or R-squared) represents the degree or extent to which the variance of one variable is related to the variance of the second variable, and is typically expressed in percentage terms.



For example, if a portfolio and its benchmark have a correlation of 0.9, the R-squared value would be 0.81. The interpretation of this figure is that 81% of the variation in the portfolio (the dependent variable in this case) is related to—or can be explained by—the variation of the benchmark (the independent variable).















Graphs showing positive, negative, and no correlation.
Illustration by Hugo Lin. © 2018 ThoughtCo.


   Negative Correlation and Portfolio Diversification  

The concept of negative correlation is a key one in portfolio construction. Negative correlation between sectors or geographies enables the creation of diversified portfolios that can better withstand market volatility and smooth out portfolio returns over the long term. The building of large and complex portfolios where the correlations are carefully balanced to provide more predictable volatility is generally referred to as the discipline of strategic asset allocation.



Consider the generally historic long-term negative correlation between stocks and bonds. Stocks generally outperform bonds during periods of strong economic performance, but as the economy slows down and the central bank reduces interest rates to stimulate the economy, bonds may outperform stocks. In this example, investors often have a strong asset class regardless of how the economy is performing.



The ultimate goal of diversification is to find assets that are negative correlated. This may extend beyond just the asset class, as gold ETFs may act differently and have different risks than physical gold bars. All else being equal, a highly-diversified portfolio means an investor is holding negatively correlated assets.






Equities and bonds generally have a negative correlation, but like other asset classes, correlation fluctuates and these two assets become more and less correlated during certain circumstances.






   Advantages and Disadvantages of Negative Correlation  
  Advantages of Negative Correlation  

As mentioned above, a negative correlation is useful when attempting to diversify across assets. Holding assets that move in different directions often reduces portfolio risk of loss.



In addition to a lower risk of loss, investors may experience a lower risk of general volatility. Different industries may offset each other in the long run. By holding both electric car companies and traditional car companies, changes to one industry may be offset by opposing changes over time.



Investors may find that pursuing negative correlation is a more engaging way to invest. Consider only investing in one asset class such as airlines. Instead, by expanding into equities for healthcare providers, streaming services, or financial services, investors may find the research of these new industries more enjoyable.



Considering companies, businesses may decide to expand into differentiating goods with a negative correlation to maximize revenue. Instead of cannibalizing one product line with another, two negatively correlated product lines may never compete. This may also allow the company to deploy different resources instead of having to rely on a single failure point.


  Disadvantages of Negative Correlation  

Though a negative correlation may be insightful, it may also be misleading if the associated assets are not actually negatively correlated. Consider the negative correlation between ski lift tickets and shark attacks. One may make misleading decisions based on negative correlations. In addition, be mindful that the correlation of two items today may be widely different tomorrow due to a change of circumstance.



For portfolio management, a negative correlation also indicates that very different assets are being held. This may mean an investor is not an expert on an asset they are holding and may be unaware of asset risks. For example, though farmland may have a negative correlation to equities, investors may not have tremendous experience in the agriculture industry.



Last, negative correlation in a portfolio means different asset classes are being held to reduce risk. In exchange for lower risk, investors are willing to sacrifice potentially higher returns by not diversifying. For example, buying bonds may result in negative correlation but also in lower returns.




Negative Correlation

Pros

May reduce a portfolio's short-term risk of loss
May reduce a portfolio's long-term risk of volatility
May be a more enjoyable strategy to investing for retail investors
May allow a company to have multiple non-competing product lines



Cons

May be misleading if data suggests correlation means causation
May expose an investor to asset classes they do not have adequate knowledge of
Often results in lower potential portfolio returns in exchange for greater risk protection





   Macroeconomics and Negative Correlation  

It should be noted that this investment thesis may not work all of the time, as the typical negative correlation between oil prices and airline stocks might occasionally turn positive. For example, during an economic boom, oil prices and airline stocks may both rise; conversely, during a recession, oil prices and airline stocks could slide in tandem.



When negative correlation between two variables breaks down, it can play havoc with investment portfolios. For example, US equity markets experienced their worst performance in a decade in the fourth quarter of 2018, partly fueled by concerns that the Federal Reserve (Fed) would continue to raise interest rates.



When assets that are often negatively correlated move in the same direction, this is an example of systematic risk. Systematic risk can not be diversified away; it will exist in financial markets and is the inherent risk present in investing. Though asset classes may traditionally be negatively correlated, macroeconomic conditions may result in asset classes acting similarly due to broader impacts to the market.


   Example of Negative Correlation  

Examples of negative correlation are common in the investment world. A well-known example is the negative correlation between crude oil prices and airline stock prices. Jet fuel, which is derived from crude oil, is a large cost input for airlines and has a significant impact on their profitability and earnings.



If the price of crude oil spikes up, it could have a negative impact on airlines' earnings and hence on the price of their stocks. But if the price of crude oil trends lower, this should boost airline profits and therefore their stock prices.



Here's how the existence of this phenomenon can help in the construction of a diversified portfolio. As the energy sector has a substantial weight in most equity indices, many investors have significant exposure to crude oil prices, which are typically quite volatile. As the energy sector, for obvious reasons, has a positive correlation with crude oil prices, investing part of one's portfolio in airline stocks would provide a hedge against a decline in oil prices.




Why Is Correlation Important?
Correlation is important because it is often an indicator of portfolio risk. When a collection of securities is negatively correlated, they pose less risk because when one security falls in value, another often increases. Investors may also actively seek out greater risk in exchange for greater potential returns; using this strategy, correlation is important because they may want to maximize correlation to yield the greatest risk and reward.




How Is Correlation Calculated?
Correlation is first calculated by finding the covariance of each of the variables. Then, the correlation coefficient is determined by dividing the covariance by the product of the variables' standard deviations.




What Are the Types of Correlation?
There are three types of correlation: positive, negative, and no correlation. There are also several types of correlation calculation methods including Pearson correlation, Kendall rank correlation, Spearman correlation, and the Point-Biserial correlation.




Is Negative Correlation Better Than Positive Correlation?
For some investors, negative correlation is better than positive correlation. This means that investors are exposed to less risk, have the chance to invest in different types of securities, and often experience less portfolio volatility. For others, negative correlation means hedging their investment which minimizes potential gains.


   The Bottom Line  

A negative correlation is an event of two variables moving in the opposite direction. As one variable increases in value, the other decreases. This relationship is measured by the correlation coefficient, and the concept of negative correlation is central to portfolio diversification theory. For most investors, negative correlation across portfolio assets is favorable.
What Is a Negative Covenant?  

A negative covenant is an agreement that restricts a company from engaging in certain actions. Think of a negative covenant as a promise not to do something. Negative covenants are also referred to as restrictive covenants.



For example, a covenant entered into with a public company might limit the amount of dividends the firm can pay its shareholders. It could also place a cap on executives’ salaries. A negative covenant may be found in employment agreements and Mergers & Acquisitions (M&A) contracts. However, these covenants are almost always found in loan or bond documents.





Key Takeaways

A negative covenant is an agreement that restricts a company from engaging in certain actions—it is a promise not to do something.For example, a covenant entered into with a public company might limit the amount of dividends the firm can pay its shareholders.Common restrictions placed on borrowers through negative covenants include preventing a bond issuer from issuing more debt until one or more series of bonds have matured.A negative covenant contrasts with a positive covenant, which is a clause in a loan agreement that requires the firm to take certain actions.


   Understanding Negative Covenants  

When a bond is issued, the features of the bond are included in a document known as the bond deed or trust indenture. The trust indenture highlights the responsibilities of an issuer and is overseen by a trustee to protect the interests of investors. The trust indenture also stipulates any negative covenants that the issuer must adhere to.



For example, the negative covenant may restrict the ability of the firm to issue additional debt. Specifically, the borrower may be required to maintain a debt-equity ratio of no more than 1. The lending agreement or indenture in which the negative covenant appears will also provide detailed formulas, which may or may not conform to the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), to be used to calculate the ratios and limits on negative covenants.



Common restrictions placed on borrowers through negative covenants include preventing a bond issuer from issuing more debt until one or more series of bonds have matured. Also, a borrowing firm may be restricted from paying dividends over a certain amount to shareholders so as not to increase the default risk to bondholders, since the more money paid to shareholders the less available funds will be to make interest and principal payment obligations to lenders.



Generally, the more negative covenants exist in a bond issue, the lower the interest rate on the debt will be since the restrictive covenants make the bonds safer in the eyes of investors.



A negative covenant contrasts with a positive covenant, which is a clause in a loan agreement that requires the firm to take certain actions. For example, a positive covenant might require the issuer to disclose audit reports to creditors periodically or to insure its assets adequately. While positive or affirmative covenants do not limit the operations of a business, negative covenants materially limit a business’ operations.
What is the Negative Directional Indicator (-DI)?  

The Negative Directional Indicator (-DI) measures the presence of a downtrend and is part of the Average Directional Index (ADX). If -DI is sloping upward, it's a sign that the price downtrend is getting stronger.



This indicator is nearly always plotted along with the Positive Directional Indicator (+DI).












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021





Key Takeaways


-DI is part of a more comprehensive indicator called the Average Directional Index (ADX). The ADX reveals trend direction and trend strength.
The indicator was designed by Welles Wilder for commodities, it is used for other markets and on all timeframes.
When the Negative Directional Indicator (-DI) moves up, and is above the Positive Directional Indicator (+DI), then the price downtrend is getting stronger.
When -DI is moving down, and below the +DI, then the price uptrend is strengthening.
When +DI and -DI crossover, it indicates the possibility of a new trend. If -DI crosses above the +DI then a new downtrend could be starting.



   The Formula for the Negative Directional Indicator (-DI) Is  

﻿















-DI


=




S -DM




ATR


















where:
















-DM


=


Negative directional movement

















-DM



=


Prior Low


−


Current Low
















S -DM


=


Smoothed -DM

















S -DM



=



∑



t


=


t


−


1


4



t




-DM



−



(





∑



t


=


t


−


1


4



t




-DM





1


4




)



+


Current -DM
















ATR


=


Average True Range








\begin{aligned} &\text{-DI} = \frac { \text{S -DM} }{ \text{ATR} } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{-DM} = \text{Negative directional movement} \\ &\phantom{\text{-DM}} = \text{Prior Low} - \text{Current Low} \\ &\text{S -DM} = \text{Smoothed -DM} \\ &\phantom{\text{S -DM} } = \sum_{t = t - 14}^t { \text{-DM} } - \left ( \frac{ \sum_{t = t - 14}^t {\text{-DM} } } {14} \right ) + \text{Current -DM} \\ &\text{ATR} = \text{Average True Range} \\ \end{aligned}


​-DI=ATRS -DM​where:-DM=Negative directional movement-DM=Prior Low−Current LowS -DM=Smoothed -DMS -DM=t=t−14∑t​-DM−(14∑t=t−14t​-DM​)+Current -DMATR=Average True Range​﻿


  How to Calculate the Negative Directional Indicator  

Calculate -DI by finding -DM and True Range (TR).-DM = Prior Low - Current LowAny period is counted as a -DM if the Previous Low - Current Low > Current High - Previous High. Use +DM when Current High - Previous High > Previous Low - Current Low.TR is the greater of the Current High - Current Low, Current High - Previous Close, or Current Low - Previous Close.Smooth the 14-periods of -DM and TR using the formula below. Substitute TR for -DM to calculate ATR. [The calculation below shows a smoothed TR formula, which is slightly different than the official ATR formula. Either formula can be used, but use one consistently].First 14-period -DM = Sum of first 14 -DM readings.Next 14-period -DM value = First 14 -DM value - (Prior 14 DM/14) + Current -DMNext, divide the smoothed -DM value by the smoothed TR (or ATR) value to get -DI. Multiply by 100.


   What Does the Negative Directional Indicator Tell You?  

The -DI line is used in conjunction with the +DI line to help show the direction of the trend.



When -DI is above +DI then the trend is down, or at least downward movement is outpacing upward movement recently. If +DI is above -DI, then the trend is up, or upward price movement is outpacing downward price movement recently.



Because these two lines can indicate trend direction, crossovers are sometimes used as trade signals. The -DI crossing above the +DI signals a down move price, and is, therefore, a sell or short trade signal. A buy signal occurs if the +DI crosses above the -DI.



These indicators are part of the Average Directional Index (ADX) system. The addition of the ADX line, which is a smoothed average of the difference between the +DI and -DI, helps traders see how strong the current trend is. Typically, readings above 20 on the ADX, and especially above 25, show a strong trend is present.



Traders can utilize all the elements in the ADX system to help make better trading decisions. For example, the +DI and -DI lines show the trend direction and crossovers. ADX shows trend strength, so a trader may decide to only take long trades when ADX is above 20 and the +DI is above, or crossing, the -DI.


   The Differences Between the Negative Directional Indicator and a Moving Average  

A moving average takes the average price of an asset over a set time period. The Negative Directional Indicator (-DI) is only concerned with the prior low relative to the current low, when applicable. Because of this, the -DI is not an average, even though it may sometimes appear to track the price when the price is falling.



Due to the different calculations of the two indicators, the -DI and the moving average will provide the trader with different information.


   Limitations of Using the Negative Directional Indicator  

The -DI provides limited information on its own. It is much more useful when combined with the +DI line. By looking at the relationship between the two lines traders can better assess whether upward or downward price movement is stronger.



Because traders often look at the relationship between these two lines, and crossovers, it should be noted that +DI and -DI lines may intersect frequently. This can result in whipsaws. Whipsaws are when the lines cross back and forth, triggering trades, but the price of the asset doesn't follow through and the trader loses money.



Savvy investors use other forms of technical and fundamental analysis to confirm what the DI lines are suggesting.
What Is Negative Equity?  

Negative equity occurs when the value of real estate property falls below the outstanding balance on the mortgage used to purchase that property. Negative equity is calculated simply by taking the current market value of the property and subtracting the amount remaining on the mortgage. 





key takeaways

Negative equity occurs when the value of real estate property falls below the outstanding balance on the mortgage used to purchase that property.Negative equity is colloquially referred to as "being underwater."Negative equity often results with the bursting of a housing bubble, a recession, or a depression—anything that causes real estate values to fall.


   How Negative Equity Works  

To understand negative equity, we must first understand "positive equity" or rather as it is commonly referred to, home equity. 



Home equity is the value of a homeowner’s interest in their home. It is the real property’s current market value less any liens or encumbrances that are attached to that property. This value fluctuates over time as payments are made on the mortgage and market forces play on the current value of that property.



If some or all of a home is purchased by means of a mortgage, the lending institution has an interest in the home until the loan obligation has been met. Home equity is the portion of a home's current value that the owner possesses free and clear.



Home equity can be accumulated by either a down payment made during the initial purchase of the property or with mortgage payments, as a contracted portion of that payment will be assigned to bring down the outstanding principal still owed. Owners can benefit from property value appreciation as it will cause their equity value to increase.



When the opposite happens—when current market value of a home falls bellows the amount the property owner owes on their mortgage—that owner is then classified ashaving negative equity in the home. The sale of a home with negative equity becomes a debt to the seller, as they would be liable to their lending institution for the difference between the attached mortgage and the sale of the home.


   Negative Equity's Economic Implications  

Negative equity can occur when a homeowner purchases a house using amortgage before either a collapse of a housing bubble, a recession, or adepression—anything that causes real estate values to fall. For instance, say a buyer financed the purchase a $400,000 home with a mortgage of $350,000. If the market value of that home the next year tumbles to $275,000, the owner has negative equity in the home because the mortgage attached to the property is $75,000 greater than what it would sell for in the current market.






In real estate jargon, If the outstanding dollar amount remaining on mortgage is larger than what the home is worth, the property, the mortgage, and the homeowner are said to be underwater.



Underwater mortgages were a common problem among homeowners around the height of the financial crisis of 2007 -2008 which, among other things, involved a substantial deflation in housing prices. As the subsequent onset of the Great Recession proved, the widespread epidemic of negative equity across the housing market can have far-reaching implications for the economy as a whole. Homeowners with negative equity found it more difficult to actively pursue work in other areas or states due to the potential losses incurred from the sale of their homes.


   Special Considerations  

Negative equity is not to be confused with mortgage equity withdrawal (MEW) is the removal of equity from the value of a home through the use of a loan against the market value of the property. A mortgage equity withdrawal reduces the real value of a property by the number of new liabilities against it—but it doesn't mean the owner has gone into the red, equity-wise.
What Is Negative Feedback?  

Negative feedback can be defined as a system where outputs mute or moderate the initial inputs, with a dampening effect. In the context of contrarian investment, an investor using a negative feedback strategy would buy stocks when prices decline and sell stocks when prices rise, which is the opposite of what most people do. Negative feedback, by this definition, helps make markets less volatile by pushing systems towards equilibrium.



Its opposite is positive feedback, in which a good outcome is perpetuated, or when herd mentality pushes elevated prices ever higher.



Negative feedback is also used colloquially (although it is technically incorrect) as a system where outputs are routed back as inputs to exacerbate some negative outcome, thereby worsening a bad situation, such as an economic panic or a deflationary spiral. This use is technically incorrect as it is an example of a positive feedback loop that makes a negative outcome worse. Still, many people (incorrectly) use the term negative feedback loop in this context.





Key Takeaways

Negative feedback refers to a case where outputs from a system are subsequently fed back into it, minimizing or reducing the effect of subsequent iterations.In markets, negative feedback loops can thus reduce volatility, for example via contrarian investing or value investing.Investors using a negative feedback strategy buy stocks when prices decline and sell when prices rise.While technically incorrect, many people refer to a negative feedback loop as a self-perpetuating downward spiral where some initial bad event is compounded and made increasingly worse by the behaviors that result from the initial event. This is, however, an example of a positive feedback loop enhancing a negative outcome.


   How Negative Feedback Works  

Many people believe financial markets can exhibit feedback loop behaviors. Originally developed as a theory to explain economics principles, the notion of feedback loops is now commonplace in other areas of finance, including behavioral finance and capital markets theory.



With negative feedback, events like stock price drops, bearish news headlines, social media rumors, and shocks produce reactions that serve to stabilize or reverse that initial result. Dip buyers or profit-taking sellers, for instance, can help minimize the severity of a selloff or rally.



This differs from positive feedback, where input from a relatively minor initial event can snowball into an ever-compounding downward spiral. Financial panics and market crashes are examples of positive feedback in markets that head in the negative direction. Bubbles are positive feedback loops that instead send prices higher.






Warren Buffett is often quoted as saying the markets are frequently nonsensical; this is in contrast to proponents of the efficient market hypothesis (EMH), who would say that markets are always efficient. Consequently, troubled stocks may be priced lower than a rational investor would anticipate simply because some investors are more panicked or pessimistic than most. When this cycle persists, the price can be driven below rational fundamental levels. This can happen because of a negative feedback loop.


   Special Considerations  

Feedback within financial markets takes on significantly greater importance during periods of distress. Given humans' propensity to overreact to greed and fear, markets have a tendency to get erratic during moments of uncertainty. The panic during sharp market corrections illustrates this point clearly.



Such feedback, even for benign issues, becomes a negative self-fulfilling cycle (or loop) that feeds on itself. Investors, seeing others panic, in turn, panic themselves, creating an environment that is difficult to reverse.



However, many markets are restored to some sort of equilibrium through negative feedback. Arbitrage, value investors, and spread traders all seek to profit from mispricings generated by positive feedback loops by taking opposing positions to the emotional response.






One way investors can protect themselves from dangerous feedback loops is by diversifying their investments. The negative, self-fulfilling cycles exhibited during the financial crisis of 2008, for example, were very costly for millions of Americans.




What Is Negative and Positive Feedback?
Many believe financial markets exhibit feedback loop behavior. Positive feedback amplifies change, meaning as share prices increase, more people buy the stock, pushing prices up further. Negative feedback minimizes change, meaning investors buy stocks when prices decline and sell stocks when prices rise.




What Is an Example of Negative Feedback?
One example of a negative feedback loop that occurs constantly is the body's method of maintaining its internal temperature. The body senses an internal change (such as a spike in temperature) and activates mechanisms that reverse, or negate, that change (the activation of the sweat glands).




What Is Meant by Negative Feedback Loop?
In the context of financial markets, a negative feedback loop refers to behavior that either compounds a bad outcome or minimizes change rather than amplifying it. In the latter case, investors buy stocks when prices decline and sell stocks when prices rise. This, however, is actually an example of positive feedback--although many people in practice still refer to this as a negative feedback loop.
What Is a Negative Gap?  

A negative gap is a situation where a financial institution's interest-sensitive liabilities exceed its interest-sensitive assets. A negative gap is not necessarily a bad thing, because if interest rates decline, the entity's liabilities are repriced at lower interest rates. In this scenario, income would increase. However, if interest rates increase, liabilities would be repriced at higher interest rates, and income would decrease.



The opposite of a negative gap is a positive gap, where an entity's interest-sensitive assets exceed its interest-sensitive liabilities. The terms of negative and positive gaps, which analyze interest rate gaps, are also known as duration gap.





Key Takeaways

A negative gap is when an entity's interest-sensitive liabilities exceed its interest-sensitive assets.If interest rates decline, the liabilities are priced at lower rates, increasing income. If interest rates increase, the opposite is true.The size of a financial institution's gap is an indicator of the impact interest rate changes will have on its net interest income.A negative gap is a component of asset-liability management; managing cash inflows to pay for liabilities.A zero duration gap is when there is no positive gap or negative gap and a firm is protected against interest rate movements.


   Understanding a Negative Gap  

Negative gap is related to gap analysis, which can help determine a financial institution's interest-rate risk as it relates to repricing, i.e. the change in interest rates when an interest-sensitive investment matures.



The size of an entity's gap indicates how much of an impact interest rate changes will have on a bank's net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between an entity's revenue, which it generates from its assets, including personal and commercial loans, mortgages and securities, and its expenses (e.g., interest paid out on deposits).


   Negative Gap and Asset-Liability Management  

A negative gap is not necessarily either good or bad, but it is a measure of how much a bank is exposed to interest-rate risk. Understanding this metric is a component of asset-liability management, which banks must consider in their operations.



Gap analysis, as a method of asset-liability management, can be helpful in assessing liquidity risk. In general, the concept of asset-liability management focuses on the timing of cash flows. It looks at when cash inflows are received versus when payments on liabilities are due and when the liabilities present a risk. It aims to ensure that the timing of liability payments will always be covered by cash inflows from the assets.



Asset-liability management is also concerned with the availability of assets to pay the liabilities, and when the assets or earnings may be converted into cash. This process can be applied to a range of categories of balance sheet assets.



When the duration gap is zero, meaning there is no positive gap or negative gap, a firm's equity is thought to be protected against interest-rate risk because any increases or decreases in interest rates won't affect the firm. However, achieving a zero gap is difficult as not all assets and liabilities have matching durations, customer prepayments and defaults will affect the timing of cash flows, and some assets and liabilities will have cash flow patterns that are not consistent.
What Is Negative Gearing?  

Negative gearing is a practice common in property investing. It is a form of financial leverage that describes the purchase of an income-producing asset, such as a rental property, but when the asset will not produce enough income to cover the cost of the asset. For example, when the rental income is insufficient to cover the loan payments, maintenance, interest, or depreciation for the asset in the short term. Ideally, the asset will eventually produce enough money to cover those costs.



The reason a property buyer would employ negative gearing is that the short-term losses can be beneficial to the owner's tax bill in certain instances. 





Key Takeaways

Negative gearing is a form of financial leverage typically seen in the context of property investing.A negatively geared asset is one that does not produce enough income to cover its cost at the moment.An investor who is negative gearing expects to gain from tax benefits in the short term and to eventually sell the asset at a higher price to make up for the initial losses.Negative gearing only becomes a profitable venture when the property is eventually sold.


   Understanding Negative Gearing  

A negatively geared asset is one that does not provide sufficient income to cover its cost. It results in a loss for the asset owner. The benefit to the buyer or investor is that, depending on the investor's home country, the shortfall between income earned and interest due can be deducted from current income taxes.



Countries that allow this tax deduction include Australia, Japan, and New Zealand. Other countries, such as Canada, France, Germany, Sweden, and the United States, allow the deduction but with restrictions. Investing in such a way might make sense in instances where large capital gains are expected at the time of sale, which will recoup intermittent losses.


   Profiting From Negative Gearing  

Negative gearing only becomes a profitable venture when the property is eventually sold via capital appreciation. At the time of sale, a prerequisite is that property values must be rising, not falling, or holding steady. If property values are falling or holding steady, the owner might not be able to sell the asset at a high enough price to make up for the losses while the asset was producing insufficient income to cover expenses. 



Many investors who speculate this way will purposely seek out negative gearing for the tax deductions in the hope that they will make a profit when the property is sold for capital gains.


   Special Considerations  

Investors considering this type of arrangement need to have the financial stability to fund the shortfall out of pocket until the property is sold and the full profit can be reached. Also of utmost importance is that the interest rate is locked in from the beginning or, if the borrower's interest is calculated on a floating index, that prevailing rates remain low.



A criticism of negative gearing is that it can distort the housing market by reducing housing supply, particularly of rental properties, perhaps push up rental prices, and encourage over-investment in real estate.
What Is Negative Goodwill?  

In business, negative goodwill (NGW) is a term that refers to the bargain purchase amount of money paid, when a company acquires another company or its assets for significantly less their fair market values. Negative goodwill generally indicates that the selling party is distressed or has declared bankruptcy, and faces no other option but to unload its assets for a fraction of their worth.



Consequently, negative goodwill nearly always favors the buyer. Negative goodwill is the opposite of goodwill, where one company pays a premium for another company's assets.












Investopedia / Jake Shi





Key Takeaways

Negative goodwill (NGW) refers to a bargain purchase amount of money paid when a company acquires another company or its assets.Negative goodwill indicates that the selling party is in a distressed state and must unload its assets for a fraction of their worth. Negative goodwill nearly always favors the buyer. Buying parties must declare negative goodwill on their income statements.Negative goodwill is the opposite of goodwill, where one company pays a premium for another company's assets. Goodwill/negative goodwill reporting falls under generally accepted accounting standards (GAAP).


   Understanding Negative Goodwill  

Negative goodwill, along with goodwill, are accounting concepts created to acknowledge the challenge of quantifying the value of intangible assets, such as a company's reputation, patents, customer base, and licenses. These intangible assets differ from tangible items, such as equipment or inventory. In most acquisition cases, transactions involve goodwill, where buyers pay a greater sum than the value of the selling company's tangible assets. But in rarer cases, negative goodwill occurs, where the value of the intangible assets must be recorded as a gain on the buyer's income statement.



This goodwill/negative goodwill reporting mandate falls under generally accepted accounting standards (GAAP)—specifically under the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement No. 141, regarding business combinations. If the value of all the acquired company's assets exceeds the purchase price of the company, a "bargain purchase" is said to have occurred. FASB defines a bargain purchase as “a business combination where the acquisition date amounts of identifiable net assets acquired, excluding goodwill, exceed the sum of the value of consideration transferred.”﻿﻿﻿



In the event of a bargain purchase, the purchaser is required under GAAP to recognize a gain for financial accounting purposes. The effect of this gain is an immediate increase in net income.



Negative goodwill is especially important to track because it gives investors a more holistic snapshot of a company's value. An acquisition that involves negative goodwill increases reported assets, income, and shareholder equity, potentially distorting performance metrics like return on assets (ROA) and return on equity (ROE), which would appear lower as a result.


   Examples of Negative Goodwill  

As a fictitious example of negative goodwill, let's assume Company ABC buys the assets of Company XYZ for $40 million, but those assets are actually worth $70 million. This deal only occurs because XYZ is in dire need of cash, and ABC is the only entity willing to pay that amount. In this case, ABC must record the $30 million difference between the purchase price and the fair market as negative goodwill on its income statement. 



Consider this real-life example of negative goodwill: In 2009, British retail and commercial bank Lloyds Banking Group (formerly Lloyds TSB) acquired banking and insurance company HBOS plc, for a purchase price that was substantially lower than the value of HBOS plc's net assets. Consequently, this transaction produced negative goodwill of approximately GBP 11 billion, which Lloyds Banking Group added to its net income that year.﻿﻿
What Is Negative Growth?  

Negative growth is a contraction in business sales or earnings. It is also used to refer to a contraction in a country's economy, which is reflected in a decrease in its gross domestic product (GDP) during any quarter of a given year. Negative growth is typically expressed as a negative percentage rate.





Key Takeaways

Negative growth is a decline in a company's sales or earnings, or a decrease in an economy's GDP during any quarter.Declining wage growth and a contraction of the money supply are characteristics of negative growth, and economists view negative growth as a sign of a possible recession or depression.The 2020 COVID-19 pandemic and the Great Recession of 2008 were the last times the U.S. economy experienced significant negative growth.


   Understanding Negative Growth  

Growth is one of the main ways that analysts describe a company's performance. Positive growth means the company is improving and is likely to show higher earnings, which should increase the share price. The opposite of positive growth is negative growth, and this describes the performance of a company experiencing a decline in sales and earnings.



Economists also use growth to describe the state and performance of the economy by measuring GDP. GDP takes into account a multitude of factors to determine how the overall economy is doing. These factors include private consumption, gross investment, government spending, and net exports. When an economy is growing, it is a sign of prosperity and expansion. Positive economic growth means an increase in money supply, economic output, and productivity. An economy with negative growth rates has declining wage growth and an overall contraction of the money supply. Economists view negative growth as a harbinger of a recession or depression.


   Negative Growth and the Economy  

Recurring periods of negative growth are one of the most commonly used measures to determine whether an economy is experiencing a recession or depression. The Recession of 2008, or the Great Recession, is an example of a period of economic growth measured as more than two years of negative growth.



The Great Recession began in 2008 and continued into 2010. The GDP growth rate in 2008 was -0.1% and in 2009 it was -2.5%. The GDP growth rate bounced back to positive in 2010 with a rate of 2.6%. Although the announcement of negative growth strikes fear into investors and consumers, it is just one of many factors that contribute to a recession or depression.



Negative growth rates and economic contraction are also marked by a decrease in real income, higher unemployment, lower levels of industrial production, and a decline in wholesale or retail sales. However, the current state of the economy at times can be misleading to when negative growth is occurring or not. For example, in situations where negative growth occurs, the real value of wages is increasing, and consumers may consider the economy to be stable or improving. Similarly, when an economy experiences both positive GDP growth and high rates of inflation, people may feel that the economy is on a decline.
What Is Negative Income Tax?  

Negative income tax (NIT) is an alternative to welfare suggested by, among other proponents, economist Milton Friedman in his 1962 book Capitalism and Freedom.﻿﻿ NIT proponents assert that every American without income above the threshold for tax liability should have a basic income guarantee and that NIT is a means to subsidize the needy at less cost than the welfare system.


   Negative Income Tax Explained  

To get a negative income tax subsidy, the needy would, along with other taxpayers, simply file income tax returns. The IRS’ computerized system could then quickly and objectively identify taxpayers with income below the threshold as eligible for help.



NIT proponents envisioned negative income tax (NIT) as a mirror image of the existing tax system where tax liabilities of above-the-threshold taxpayers vary positively with income according to a tax rate schedule; and tax benefits of below-the-threshold taxpayers vary inversely with income according to a negative tax rate (or benefit-reduction) schedule. Taxpayers with income above the threshold would pay taxes in a cash amount equal to the difference (‘positive taxes’) and taxpayers with income below the threshold would receive NIT refundable credits in a cash amount equal to the difference (‘negative taxes’).



NIT opponents applying labor-supply economic theories worried that negative income tax (NIT)’s promise of a threshold income guarantee would cause the working poor to work less or quit entirely to substitute in leisure activities since wages reduce but may not exceed the guarantee, particularly after payroll and state and local income taxes are taken out. If too many of the working poor succumbed to this income effect and this substitution effect, the swelling number of needy with income below the threshold and eligible for NIT refundable credits would make total negative income tax (NIT) costs untenable.
What Is a Negative Interest Rate?  

The term negative interest rate refers to interest paid to borrowers rather than to lenders. Central banks typically charge commercial banks on their reserves as a form of non-traditional expansionary monetary policy, rather than crediting them. This is a very unusual scenario that generally occurs during a deep economic recession when monetary efforts and market forces have already pushed interest rates to their nominal zero bound. This tool is meant to encourage lending, spending, and investment rather than hoarding cash, which will lose value to negative deposit rates.





Key Takeaways

Negative interest rates are a form of monetary policy that sees interest rates fall below 0%.Central banks and regulators use this unusual policy tool when there are strong signs of deflation.Borrowers are credited interest instead of paying interest to lenders in a negative interest rate environment.Central banks charge commercial banks on reserves in an effort to incentivize them to spend rather than hoard cash positions.Although commercial banks are charged interest to keep cash with a nation's central bank, they are generally reluctant to pass negative rates onto their customers.


   Understanding Negative Interest Rates  

An interest rate is effectively the cost of borrowing. This means that lenders charge borrowers interest when they take out any type of debt, such as a loan or mortgage. Although it may seem strange, there are instances where lenders may end up paying borrowers when they take out a loan. This is called a negative interest rate environment.



Negative rates are normally set by central banks and other regulatory bodies. They do so during deflationary periods when consumers hold too much money instead of spending as they wait for a turnaround in the economy. Consumers may expect their money to be worth more tomorrow than today during these periods. When this happens, the economy can experience a sharp decline in demand, causing prices to plummet even lower.



When strong signs of deflation are present, simply cutting the central bank's interest rate to zero may not be sufficient enough to stimulate growth in both credit and lending. This means that a central bank must loosen its monetary policy and turn to negative interest rates.



Therefore, a negative interest rate environment occurs when the nominal interest rate drops below 0% for a specific economic zone. This effectively means that banks and other financial firms have to pay to keep their excess reserves stored at the central bank, rather than receiving positive interest income.






In a negative interest rate environment, an entire economic zone can be impacted because the nominal interest rate dips below zero. As such, storing cash incurs a fee rather than earning interest, which means that consumers and banks have to pay interest in order to deposit money into an account.


   Special Considerations  

While real interest rates can be effectively negative if inflation exceeds the nominal interest rate, the nominal interest rate is, theoretically, bounded by zero. This means that negative interest rates are often the result of a desperate and critical effort to boost economic growth through financial means.



The zero-bound refers to the lowest level that interest rates can fall to. Some forms of logic dictate that zero would be the lowest level. However, there are instances where negative rates have been implemented during normal times. For instance, the target interest rate in Switzerland was -0.75%. Japan adopted a similar policy with a mid-2021 target rate of -0.1%.


  Commercial Banks  

With negative interest rates, commercial banks are charged interest to keep cash with a nation's central bank, rather than receiving interest. This dynamic should theoretically trickle down to consumers and businesses. But in reality, commercial banks are generally reluctant to pass negative rates onto their customers.


   Consequences of Negative Rates  

A negative interest rate policy (NIRP) is an unusual monetary policy tool. Nominal target interest rates are set with a negative value, which is below the theoretical lower bound of 0%.



When people hoard money rather than spend or invest it, aggregate demand collapses. This leads to prices falling even further, a slowdown or halt in real production and output, and an increase in unemployment.



A loose or expansionary monetary policy is usually employed to deal with such economic stagnation. However, if deflationary forces are strong enough, simply cutting the central bank's interest rate to zero may not be sufficient to stimulate borrowing and lending.



But it's still not clear if a NIRP is effective in achieving the goal in the countries that established it and in the way it was intended. It's also unclear whether or not negative rates have successfully spread beyond excess cash reserves in the banking system to other parts of the economy.






Individual depositors aren't charged negative interest rates on their bank accounts.


   Example of Negative Interest Rates  

Central banks in Europe, Scandinavia, and Japan have implemented a negative interest rate policy on excess bank reserves in the financial system. This unorthodox monetary policy tool is designed to spur economic growth through spending and investment; depositors would be incentivized to spend cash rather than store it at the bank and incur a guaranteed loss.




How Can Interest Rates Turn Negative?
Interest rates tell you how valuable money is today compared to the same amount of money in the future. Positive interest rates imply that there is a time value of money, where money today is worth more than money tomorrow. Forces like inflation, economic growth, and investment spending all contribute to this outlook. A negative interest rate, by contrast, implies that your money will be worth more—not less—in the future.




What Do Negative Interest Rates Mean for People?
Most instances of negative interest rates only apply to bank reserves held by central banks; however, we can ponder the consequences of more widespread negative rates. First, savers would have to pay interest instead of receiving it. By the same token, borrowers would be paid to do so instead of paying their lender. Therefore, it would incentivize many to borrow more and larger sums of money and to forgo saving in favor of consumption or investment. If they did save, they would save their cash in a safe or under the mattress, rather than pay interest to a bank for depositing it.Note that interest rates in the real world are set by the supply and demand for loans (despite central banks setting a target). As a result, the demand for money in use would grow and quickly restore a positive interest rate.




Where Do Negative Interest Rates Exist?
Some central banks have set a negative interest rate policy (NIRP) in order to stimulate economic growth in the financial sector, or else to protect the value of a local currency against exchange-rate increases due to large inflows of foreign investment. Countries including Japan, Switzerland, Sweden, and even the ECB (eurozone) have adopted NIRPs at various points over the past two decades.




Why Would Central Banks Adopt NIRPs to Stimulate the Economy?
Monetary policymakers are often afraid of falling into a deflationary spiral. In harsh economic times, such as deep economic recessions or depressions, people and businesses tend to hold on to their cash while they wait for the economy to improve.This behavior, however, can weaken the economy further as a lack of spending causes further job losses, lower profits, and price drops—all of which reinforce people’s fears, giving them even more incentive to hoard. As spending slows even more, prices drop again, creating another incentive for people to wait as prices fall further, and so on. When central banks have already lowered interest rates to zero, the NIRP is a way to incentivize corporate borrowing and investment and discourage hoarding of cash.
What Is a Negative Interest Rate Environment?  

A negative interest rate environment exists when the nominal overnight interest rate falls below zero percent for a particular economic zone. This means that banks and other financial institutions would have to pay to keep their excess reserves stored at the central bank rather than receive positive interest income.



A negative interest rate policy (NIRP) is an unconventional monetary policy tool whereby nominal target interest rates are set with a negative value, below the theoretical lower bound of zero percent.





Key Takeaways

A negative interest rate environment exists when overnight lending rates fall below zero percent.In 2009 and 2010, Sweden and, in 2012, Denmark used negative interest rates to stem hot money flows into their economies.In 2014, the European Central Bank (ECB) instituted a negative interest rate that only applied to bank deposits intended to prevent the Eurozone from falling into a deflationary spiral.In a negative interest rate environment, financial institutions must pay interest to deposit funds and can actually receive interest on borrowed money.


   Understanding a Negative Interest Rate Environment  

The impetus for a negative interest rate is to stimulate economic growth by encouraging banks to lend or invest excess reserves rather than experience a guaranteed loss. The theory goes that, with interest rates below zero, banks, businesses, and households will stimulate the economy by spending money instead of saving it. A negative interest rate environment is believed to encourage banks to make more loans, households to buy more products, and businesses to invest extra cash instead of depositing it in the bank.



Because it is logistically difficult and costly to transfer and store large sums of physical cash, some banks are still ok with paying negative interest on their deposits. However, if the interest rate is set sufficiently negative, it will begin to exceed storage costs.



Negative interest rate environments are intended to penalize banks for holding onto cash instead of extending loans. They should, at least in theory, make it cheaper for businesses and households to take out loans, encouraging more borrowing and pumping more cash into the economy.


   Risks of a Negative Interest Rate Environment  

There are some risks associated with a negative interest rate environment. If banks penalize households for saving, that might not necessarily encourage retail consumers to spend more cash. Instead, they may hoard cash at home. Instituting a negative interest rate environment can even inspire a cash run, triggering households to pull their cash out of the bank in order to avoid paying negative interest rates for saving.



Banks that wish to avoid cash runs can refrain from applying the negative interest rate to the comparatively small deposits of household savers. Instead, they apply negative interest rates to the large balances held by pension funds, investment firms, and other corporate clients. This encourages corporate savers to invest in bonds and other vehicles that offer better returns while protecting the bank and the economy from the negative effects of a cash run.


   Examples of Negative Interest Rate Environments  

The Swiss government ran a de facto negative interest rate regime in the early 1970s to counter its currency appreciation due to investors fleeing inflation in other parts of the world.



Recent examples of negative interest rate environments include the European Central Bank (ECB), which dropped its interest rates below zero in 2014. A year and a half later, in 2016, the Bank of Japan also adopted negative interest rates. The central banks of Sweden, Denmark, and Switzerland have also switched to negative interest rates from 2009-2012.



These countries used negative interest rates to stem hot money flows into their economies to keep control of their currency exchange rates as foreign capital flowed into those economies.


   Special Considerations  

Central banks have created negative interest rate environments in these countries in an effort to stop deflation, which, they fear, could quickly spiral out of control, devaluing currencies and derailing economic progress made since the Great Recession. However, the negative interest rates are so far small.



Central banks have hesitated to lower negative interest rates too far below zero because the practice of creating negative interest rate environments did not begin until recently, with the ECB being the first major financial institution to create such an environment. The ECB charges banks 0.4 percent interest to hold onto cash overnight. The Bank of Japan charges 0.10 percent interest to hold cash overnight, and the Swiss central bank charges 0.75 percent interest to hold onto cash.
What Is a Negative Interest Rate Policy (NIRP)?  

A negative interest rate policy (NIRP) is an unconventional monetary policy tool employed by a central bank whereby nominal target interest rates are set with a negative value, below the theoretical lower bound of zero percent. A NIRP is a relatively new development (since the 1990s) in monetary policy used to mitigate a financial crisis, and has only been officially enacted under extraordinary economic circumstances.





Key Takeaways

A negative interest rate policy (NIRP) occurs when a central bank sets its target nominal interest rate at less than zero percent.This extraordinary monetary policy tool is used to strongly encourage borrowing, spending, and investment rather than hoarding cash, which will lose value to negative deposit rates.Officially set negative rates have been seen in practice following the 2008 financial crisis in several jurisdictions such as in parts of Europe and in Japan.


   Explaining Negative Interest Rate Policies  

A negative interest rate means that the central bank (and perhaps private banks) will charge negative interest. Instead of receiving money on deposits, depositors must pay regularly to keep their money with the bank. This is intended to incentivize banks to lend money more freely and businesses and individuals to invest, lend, and spend money rather than pay a fee to keep it safe. This happens during a negative interest rate environment.



During deflationary periods, people and businesses hoard money instead of spending and investing. The result is a collapse in aggregate demand, which leads to prices falling even further, a slowdown or halt in real production and output, and an increase in unemployment. A loose or expansionary monetary policy is usually employed to deal with such economic stagnation. However, if deflationary forces are strong enough, simply cutting the central bank's interest rate to zero may not be sufficient to stimulate borrowing and lending.


   The Theory Behind Negative Interest Rate Policy (NIRP)  

Negative interest rates can be considered a last-ditch effort to boost economic growth. Basically, it's put into place when all else (every other type of traditional policy) has proved ineffective and may have failed.



Theoretically, targeting interest rates below zero will reduce the costs to borrow for companies and households, driving demand for loans and incentivizing investment and consumer spending. Retail banks may choose to internalize the costs associated with negative interest rates by paying them, which will negatively impact profits, rather than passing the costs to small depositors for fear that, otherwise, they will have to move their deposits into cash.


   Real World Examples of NIRP  

An example of a negative interest rate policy would be to set the key rate at -0.2 percent, such that bank depositors would have to pay two-tenths of a percent on their deposits instead of receiving any sort of positive interest.



The Swiss government ran a de facto negative interest rate regime in the early 1970s to counter its currency appreciation due to investors fleeing inflation in other parts of the world.
In 2009 and 2010, Sweden and, in 2012, Denmark used negative interest rates to stem hot money flows into their economies.
In 2014, the European Central Bank (ECB) instituted a negative interest rate that only applied to bank deposits intended to prevent the Eurozone from falling into a deflationary spiral.



Though fears that bank customers and banks would move all their money holdings into cash (or M1) did not materialize, there is some evidence to suggest that negative interest rates in Europe did cut down interbank loans.



There are some risks and potential unintended consequences associated with a negative interest rate policy. If banks penalize households for saving, that might not necessarily encourage retail consumers to spend more cash. Instead, they may hoard cash at home. Instituting a negative interest rate environment can even inspire a cash run, triggering households to pull their cash out of the bank in order to avoid paying negative interest rates for saving.



Banks that wish to avoid cash runs can refrain from applying the negative interest rate to the comparatively small deposits of household savers. Instead, they apply negative interest rates to the large balances held by pension funds, investment firms and other corporate clients. This encourages corporate savers to invest in bonds and other vehicles that offer better returns while protecting the bank and the economy from the negative effects of a cash run.
What Is a Negative Pledge Clause?  

A negative pledge clause is a type of negative covenant that prevents a borrower from pledging any assets if doing so would jeopardize the lender’s security. This type of clause may be part of bond indentures and traditional loan structures.





Key Takeaways

A negative pledge clause is a part of a loan contract that prevents the borrower from pledging their assets to another lender.Negative pledge clauses are also referred to as "covenants of equal coverage."Negative pledge clauses may stipulate that if the bond issuer grants liens against any assets in the future, an equal lien must also be granted to the issuer’s investors.A negative pledge clause ensures that the original lender will maintain priority if the borrower defaults and their assets are seized.Negative pledge clauses are sometimes included in mortgages to prevent the borrower from using their home as collateral for other lenders.


   How a Negative Pledge Clause Works  

Negative pledge clauses help lenders or bondholders protect their investments. When a bond indenture includes a negative pledge clause, it prevents the bond issuer from taking on future debt that could compromise its ability to meet obligations to existing bondholders.



A negative pledge clause also limits the likelihood that a particular asset will be pledged more than once, preventing conflict over which lending institution has the right to the asset if the borrower defaults.






Mortgages sometimes include negative pledge clauses that prevent the borrower from encumbering their home.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Negative Pledge Clause  

Because a negative pledge clause reduces the risk of a loan or bond issue, it often allows the borrower to get a slightly lower interest rate. This creates a win-win situation that benefits both the lender and borrower.



The negative pledge clause mitigates risks to bondholders by restricting the activities in which the issuer can participate. Most often, this means preventing the issuer from using the same assets to secure another debt obligation.



On the downside, violating a negative pledge clause can trigger a default on the loan, albeit a technical default. Lenders generally give an allotted amount of time, such as 30 days, to remedy a covenant break before moving ahead with default procedures.




Pros and Cons of a Negative Pledge Clause

Pros

Lowers risk for the lender
Lower interest rates for the borrower
Ensures that lenders will have recourse if the borrower declares bankruptcy



Cons

Limits the borrower's ability to sell or borrow against their assets in the future.
May cause borrower to default if they inadvertently break the covenant.
They are difficult to enforce for lenders.





   Special Considerations  

When a financial institution provides an unsecured loan to an individual or entity, it may include a negative pledge clause in the contract in order to protect itself.



In this case, the clause prevents the borrower from using its own assets to secure other sources of financing. If the borrower secures other loans, the original loan by the first institution becomes less secure, because the borrower now has a greater amount of debt obligations, and the original institution may not have priority status for repayment.



In the case of home mortgages, many loan agreements include terminology that restricts the borrower from using the mortgaged property as collateral against any new loan, except in the case of refinancing.




What Is a Negative Covenant?
A negative covenant is a contractual agreement that binds prevents one party from taking a certain action. In other words, it is an agreement not to do something. Negative covenants might prohibit a person or company from selling certain assets or taking on more than a certain amount of debt, for example.




What Is a Double Negative Pledge?
A double negative pledge is a promise not to enter into negative covenants with any third party. In other words, it is a negative covenant that prohibits other negative covenants. This type of agreement is frequently used by banks or other lenders to ensure that they have a priority claim to a borrower's assets if they declare bankruptcy.




What Happens If a Borrower Breaks a Negative Pledge Clause?
The loan agreement will specify the type of recourse that is available to a lender if the borrower sells or otherwise encumbers property protected by a negative pledge clause. This will usually allow the lender to sue the borrower, or accelerate the loan's repayment schedule. However, the lender cannot pursue action against any third party, only the borrower.
What Is a Negative Return?  

A negative return occurs when a company experiences a financial loss or investors experience a loss in the value of their investments during a specific period of time. In other words, the business or individual loses money on either their business or their investment. The term "negative return" can refer to either a net loss across all your investments and businesses, or to a loss on any specific investment or business.



A negative return for a business is also referred to as a negative return on equity.





Key Takeaways

A negative return refers to a loss, either on an investment, a business's performance, or on invested projects.When an investor purchases securities with the goal of those securities appreciating but rather they decrease in value, the investor has a negative return.If a business does not generate enough revenues to cover all of its expenses, it will experience a negative return for the period.Projects that companies invest in utilizing debt financing need to return more than the interest rate on the loan.Negative returns can greatly impact businesses; in terms of leading to bankruptcy as well as witnessing a decreasing share price and inability to obtain financing.


   Understanding a Negative Return  

A negative return is most commonly utilized when referring to an investment. Investors allocate capital to certain securities they believe will appreciate based on their research, whether that be fundamental research or technical research.



If the securities they choose appreciate in value, they will have a positive return. Conversely, if the securities depreciate in value, resulting in a loss, they will have a negative return on their investments. Investors can offset the losses in a portfolio against the gains to reduce their capital gains tax. Return on investment (ROI) is a financial metric often used to calculate an individual's returns.


  Negative Returns in Business  

Negative returns can also be used to refer to the profit or loss of a business in a specific period. For example, if a company generated $20,000 in revenue but had $40,000 in costs, it would then have a negative return.



Some businesses report a negative return during their early years because of the amount of capital that initially goes into the business to get it off the ground. Spending a lot of money/capital when not bringing in any revenue will lead to a loss. New businesses generally do not begin making a profit until after a few years of being established.



Investors in a company will be willing to stick around if they know that the company has the potential to quickly turn its negative return into a positive return and bring in high profits, sales, or asset turnover.



However, if a business is continuously experiencing negative returns without a solid business plan to turn operations around, then investors may lose faith in the company. This can result in a decrease in a company's share price as well as difficulty in obtaining financing. Continuous negative returns in business will lead to bankruptcy.


  Negative Returns on Projects  

Negative returns can also be used in relation to projects that companies invest in, usually requiring debt financing. For example, a company decides to purchase new equipment to expand its business and borrows money to do so. If the interest rate on the loan used to buy the equipment is higher than the returns the company is receiving from the new equipment, it will have experienced a negative return on that capital investment.


   Example of a Negative Return  

Assume Charles received $1,000 as a gift and wants to invest that money. He does research on a few stock suggestions provided to him by his friend. He decides to invest in two stocks equally: Company ABC and Company XYZ. He buys $500 of each stock.



After one year, Charles looks at his portfolio. He sees that Company ABC has appreciated in value to $600 while Company XYZ has depreciated in value to $200. While he has a positive return on Company ABC he has a negative return on Company XYZ. Also, his overall portfolio has a negative return of $200. The invested value was $1,000 and the current value is $800.



These are unrealized gains and losses and Charles can either continue holding the stocks or sell them. If he sells them the loss on Company XYZ is tax-deductible on the gains of Company ABC, reducing Charle's capital gains tax.
What Is the Negative Volume Index (NVI)?  

The negative volume index (NVI) is a technical indication line that integrates volume and price to graphically show how price movements are affected by down volume days.





Key Takeaways

The negative volume index integrates volume and price to graphically show how price movements are affected by down volume days.The negative volume index trendlines can potentially be the best trendlines for following mainstream, smart money movements typically characterized by institutional investors.NVI can be used in conjunction with the positive volume index (PVI) to see how price is being influenced by volume.


   Understanding Negative Volume Index (NVI)  

The negative volume index (NVI) can be used with the positive volume index (PVI). Both indexes were first developed by Paul Dysart in the 1930s and gained popularity in the 1970s after being spotlighted in Norman Fosback’s book entitled "Stock Market Logic."



The positive and negative volume indexes are trendlines that can help an investor follow how a security’s price is changing with the effects of volume. PVI and NVI trendlines are typically available through advanced technical charting software programs like MetaStock and EquityFeedWorkstation. Trendlines are usually added below a candlestick pattern similar to the visualization of volume bar charts.



Negative volume index trendlines can potentially be the best trendlines for following mainstream, smart money movements typically characterized by institutional investors. Positive volume index trendlines are usually more broadly associated with high volume market trending effects, which are known to be more heavily influenced by both smart money and noise traders.



NVI can be useful after a price comes down from high-volume trading. Low volume days can show how institutional money and mainstream investors are trading a security. Generally, it is best to follow both the NVI and PVI together, as overall they represent how price is being influenced by volume.


   NVI Calculations  

Calculation of the NVI depends on how volume for a single day compares with the previous day’s trading volume.



NVI will only change when the volume has decreased from one day to the next. Thus, if the current volume is higher, there is no change. If the volume is lower than the previous day then NVI is calculated using the following equation:



















NVI


t



=




(



P


t



−



P



t


−


1




)




P



t


−


1





×



NVI



t


−


1


















where:

















NVI


t



=


Negative volume index at time t

















P


t



=


Price or the index level at time t







\begin{aligned}&\text{NVI}_{\text{t}}=\frac{(\text{P}_{\text{t}}-\text{P}_{\text{t}-1})}{\text{P}_{\text{t}-1}}\times\text{NVI}_{\text{t}-1}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{NVI}_{\text{t}}=\text{Negative volume index at time t}\\&\text{P}_{\text{t}}=\text{Price or the index level at time t}\end{aligned}


​NVIt​=Pt−1​(Pt​−Pt−1​)​×NVIt−1​where:NVIt​=Negative volume index at time tPt​=Price or the index level at time t​



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is Negotiable?  

Negotiable is used to describe the price of a good or a contract that is not firmly established, meaning the terms can be modified. Negotiable can refer to a legal contract in which all or a portion of the terms can be adjusted by the parties involved.



However, the meaning of the term negotiable can vary depending on the context. For example, a negotiable instrument or document has a monetary value assigned to it and guarantees payment of an amount from a payer (or issuer) to the payee.



Negotiable instruments are called negotiable because they can be transferred, exchanged, or sold between multiple parties, meaning the legal ownership can exchange hands. Other words used to describe negotiable are marketable, transferable, or unregistered.





Key Takeaways

Negotiable can be used to describe the price of a good or contract terms that are not firmly established.Negotiable instruments refer to securities whose ownership is easily transferable from one party to another.Examples of negotiable instruments include certificates of deposit and currency. Negotiable securities are considered liquid, meaning they can easily be transferred or sold in the market.In contrast, non-negotiable instruments are considered illiquid since they cannot be resold in the market.


   Understanding Negotiable  

The term negotiable can be used in reference to the purchase price of a particular good or security. The asking price may not be set in stone and can be adjusted depending on the circumstance.



However, when conducting financial transactions in an economy, many securities are called negotiable instruments, meaning they can be easily transferred from one party to the next, provided all proper legal documentation is included.



However, negotiable instruments, such as cash, cannot have their value modified. For example, a $10 bill will always be worth $10 but is called a negotiable instrument since the legal ownership of the $10 bill can be transferred from one party to another.



Negotiable can refer to a legal document or instrument used in lieu of cash, which represents a promise of payment at some point in the future. In context, the word negotiable implies a cash value and comes with specific instructions about the timing of cash flows to be paid. The term negotiable is used to suggest the document or instrument comes with the same faith legal backing as cash under the law.


   Characteristics of a Negotiable Instrument  

Negotiable instruments contain an unconditional promise to render payment for an exact sum, meaning the amount to be paid from the payor to the payee is stated on the instrument. The agreement also provides instructions on timing, such as on-demand or some time in the future. Some negotiable instruments must be made out to a specific person or party.



Negotiable instruments can be redeemed for cash or transferred to another party. For a piece of paper to be as good as cash or negotiable by law, it must be a written document signed by the entity drawing on the instrument—making it marketable or transferable.



It must also have an explicit order or promise to pay and state a specific amount of money. However, certain negotiable instruments do not have a date associated with them, which does not impact their negotiability.


   Types of Negotiable Instruments  

There are several types of negotiable instruments that are used in various types of financial transactions.


  Check  

A check is a dated draft and orders a bank to make a specific amount payable on demand. Checks can be written by an individual or a company stipulating an amount to be paid to the payee.



Checks are signed by the payor or the account owner from which the deposited money is being withdrawn to honor the check. When a check is brought to a bank to be cashed or deposited, the money is withdrawn from the payor's bank account.


  Certificate of Deposit  

A certificate of deposit (CD) is a negotiable instrument offered by financial institutions which pay a customer interest in exchange for depositing money in the account and holding it there for a specific time period, such as one year.


  Promissory Note  

A promissory note is a document in which one party promises to pay another party for a specific amount at a predetermined date in the future. A promissory note contains similar financial details to other negotiable instruments, including the amount owed, date of issuance, interest rate, and the signature of the issuer or payor.



Promissory notes are typically used to obtain financing from a source other than a financial institution. However, promissory notes are issued by the debtor—or the person that owes the money—rather than the creditor, which is typical for most credit products.


  Bill of Exchange and Drafts  

A bill of exchange is essentially a post-dated check that does not charge any interest on the amount owed. A bill of exchange is a binding agreement in which one party is responsible for paying another party on demand at a future date. Bills of exchange are commonly used in international trade between importers and exporters.



A time draft—a type of bill of exchange—makes a demand for payment at some point in the future. A time draft is typically used in international trade and allows the buyer (the importer) time to pay the seller of the goods (the exporter).



A sight draft is also used with international trade. However, a sight draft does not allow the importer any extra time in making a payment to the exporter. Instead, the importer pays the sight draft as soon as the importer receives the goods shipped by the seller. The buyer accepts the draft, signs it, and returns it to the seller.


   Negotiable vs. Non-Negotiable  

Non-negotiable means that the price of a security or terms of a contract cannot be modified. Non-negotiable can also refer to a security that cannot easily be transferred from one party to another.


  Contracts  

For example, in rental and lease agreements, the monthly amount owed by the tenant would likely be non-negotiable. In other words, the landlord has established a fixed monthly rent or lease payment for the duration of the contract.



Other contracts might only have a portion of the terms stipulated as non-negotiable. For example, an employment agreement might allow the salary to be negotiated, but the employee-conduct policy would be non-negotiable. Conversely, negotiable means that a contract's terms can be modified, depending on the circumstances and parties involved.


  Securities  

Certain securities are non-negotiable, as in the case of a U.S. government savings bond, which can only be cashed by the bond's owner. Conversely, negotiable securities can be transferred, exchanged, or resold between different people, such as the case with currency.


  Liquidity  

Negotiable securities are considered liquid, meaning they can easily be transferred or sold in the market. In contrast, non-negotiable instruments are considered illiquid since they cannot be resold in the market.






Before signing a contract, it's important to know which terms are negotiable and which terms are non-negotiable.


   Example of a Negotiable Instrument  

A common example of a negotiable instrument is a currency, such as the U.S. dollar. For example, a company agrees to pay $100,000 to purchase a piece of manufacturing machinery from a supplier. The buyer and seller work out the terms of shipping the equipment in exchange for payment upon inspection. The buyer inspects the machinery and agrees to the terms, paying $100,000 to the seller. In return, the seller arranges the delivery of the machinery to the buyer's place of business.


   The Bottom Line  

Negotiable instruments are legal documents that guarantee a monetary value and payment from one party to another. These instruments can have their legal ownership transferred, exchanged, and sold. The term negotiable can also describe a contract that is not fixed, meaning its terms can be changed, depending on those involved.


   Negotiable FAQs  
  What Is a Negotiable Instrument?  

A negotiable instrument is a document that has monetary value, which guarantees payment of a certain amount. Negotiable instruments can be exchanged and sold, allowing the legal ownership to be transferred from one party to another. For example, cash is considered a negotiable instrument.


  What Are Non-Negotiable Documents?  

Non-negotiable documents are contracts in which the terms of a contract for a security's price cannot be changed. Non-negotiable instruments are not easily transferred from one party to another.



For example, U.S. government savings bonds are non-negotiable, meaning they cannot be transferred and can only be cashed by the owner of the bond.


  Is a Note Receivable a Negotiable Instrument?  

A note receivable is a negotiable instrument since it is considered a promissory note in which a company is owed money at a specific future date. A note receivable is used when a company allows its customers to pay them at a later date.


  What Is a Non-Negotiable Check?  

A non-negotiable check is a check that cannot be deposited, transferred, or exchanged for cash. An example of a non-negotiable check would be when an employer pays an employee via direct deposit but issues a non-negotiable check outlining the details of the payment.


  What Fees Are Negotiable in a Mortgage Loan?  

Some fees in a mortgage loan can be negotiated. These fees are often called closing costs and are typically paid by the buyer at the mortgage closing.



Fees can vary from bank to bank. A homebuyer might be able to negotiate the fees charged for the loan origination, credit check, land survey, and home inspection.


  What Is Typically Not Negotiable in a Real Estate Contract?  

Typically, taxes and fees from the state and local government are seldom negotiated. Depending on the type of transaction, the real estate agent's commission for selling the property is usually non-negotiable.


  How Negotiable Are Used Car Prices?  

Used car prices are often negotiated. However, it's important that the buyer research the value of the car, its age, and mileage. If the dealer's offering price is far from the car's value, there is a high markup.



Also, many dealers want their customers to finance the car by borrowing money from the dealer in which they earn fees and interest on the loan. Customers who get preapproved for a loan from an outside source, such as a bank, have more leverage in negotiating the price of the car and financing terms.
Negotiable Bill of Lading  

Lading is the process of loading cargo onto a ship or vessel, and a negotiable bill of lading is one kind of bill of lading. The bill of lading is a legal document between the shipper and carrier, detailing the type, quantity, and destination of goods being carried. The negotiable bill of lading is distinguished by the fact that it is a contract of carriage that can be transferred to a third party.


   How a Negotiable Bill of Lading Works  

The bill of lading serves as a receipt of shipment when the goods are delivered at the predetermined destination. That is, the recipient acknowledges that the goods have been delivered by signing the document. Of course, there are different kinds of bills of lading, each type with unique stipulations and conditions. For example, the ocean bill of lading applies only to cargo that is shipped across international waters.





Key Takeaways

Lading is a term that refers to loading cargo onto ships.A bill of lading is a document outlining the agreement between shipper and carrier as well as the type, quantity, and destination of goods being carried.Also known as an order bill of lading, the negotiable bill of lading transfers control (title) of the goods to the order of the entity named on the document.A clean bill of lading acknowledges that goods have been received in the appropriate condition, without defects.A straight bill of lading spells out how a carrier can limit their liability.



A negotiable bill of landing can be transferred to a third party through consignment. This happens when the consignee (the person or entity that is the buyer and is financially responsible for the goods) signs or endorses the document and delivers it to the new consignee (the third party). To transfer the negotiable bill of lading, the consignor (the person or business shipping the goods) must stamp and sign the bill. Then the carrier must deliver it. A negotiable bill of lading must be written to the order of the consignee. It must be a clean bill of lading.


   Clean Bills of Lading vs. Straight Bill of Lading  

A clean bill of lading is issued by a carrier declaring that goods have been received in the appropriate condition, without defects. The product carrier issues a clean bill of lading after inspecting the goods. If the bill of lading is "claused" or "fouled" when it notes that the products or goods are damaged or defective.



A uniform bill of lading or straight bill of lading was first adopted in 1909 and spelled out how a carrier can limit its liability. It may not be transferred and is only deliverable to the named consignee (recipient). Like any bill of lading, the uniform bill of lading also lists the goods being transported and serves as a contract of the terms of the shipment.
What Is a Negotiable Certificate of Deposit (NCD)?  

A negotiable certificate of deposit (NCD), also known as a jumbo CD, is a certificate of deposit (CD) with a minimum face value of $100,000—though NCDs are typically $1 million or more. They are guaranteed by the bank and can usually be sold in a highly liquid secondary market, but they cannot be cashed in before maturity.



Because of their large denominations, NCDs are bought most often by large institutional investors that typically use them as a way to invest in a low-risk, low-interest security. A Yankee CD is one example of an NCD.





Key Takeaways

Negotiable certificates of deposit are CDs with a minimum face value of $100,000.They are guaranteed by banks, cannot be redeemed before their maturation date, and can usually be sold in highly liquid secondary markets.Along with U.S. Treasury bills, they are considered a low-risk, low-interest security.


   Understanding a Negotiable Certificate of Deposit (NCD)  

An NCD is short term, with maturities ranging from two weeks to one year. Interest is usually paid either twice a year or at maturity, or the instrument is purchased at a discount to its face value. Interest rates are negotiable, and yield from an NCD is dependent on money market conditions.


   History of NCDs  

NCDs were introduced in 1961 by First National City Bank of New York, which is now Citibank. The instrument allowed banks to raise funds that could be used for lending. NCDs were designed to ease a deposit shortage that had affected banks during the previous decade. Many bank depositors transferred their cash from checking accounts, which did not pay interest, to other investments, such as Treasury bills (T-bills), commercial paper, and bankers’ acceptances.



The First National City Bank of New York loaned $10 million in government securities to a New York broker that agreed to accept trades in CDs. This created a secondary market in which the NCDs could trade. By 1966, investors held $15 billion in outstanding NCDs. That amount grew to more than $30 billion in 1970 and $90 billion in 1975.



Participants in the market for NCDs primarily comprise wealthy individuals and institutions, such as corporations, insurance companies, pension funds, and mutual funds. The market attracts those seeking a return on cash in a low-risk and liquid investment.





$250,000

The amount up to which the FDIC will insure an NCD.


   Advantages of NCDs  

One feature of the NCD is its low risk. NCDs are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) for up to $250,000 per depositor per bank. This was increased from $100,000 in 2010 with the passage of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. Therefore, the product attracts those who would invest in other low-risk investments, such as U.S. Treasury securities.



That said, NCDs are generally considered riskier compared with T-bills, which are backed by the U.S. government's full faith and credit. As such, NCDs offer higher interest rates compared to those of Treasury bills.






NCDs offer higher interest rates than Treasury bills.


   Disadvantages of NCDs  

Most NCDs are not callable, meaning the bank cannot redeem the instrument prior to the maturity date. However, if a bank can call the NCD, it will do so when interest rates fall. Hence, investors will have difficulty finding another NCD that pays a similar rate of interest. The initial rate to the NCD holder will be higher to compensate the investor for this risk.




Where Can I Purchase an NCD?
NCDs are typically issued by banks and credit unions. They are also traded on the secondary market, which can be accessed through financial brokers.




How Much of a NCD Is FDIC or NCUA-insured?
NCDs are insured up to $250,000 per depositor per bank. Any amount over this is not insured.




What Is the Typical Term for an NCD?
NCDs are short-term investments with terms ranging from a week up to a year on average.


   The Bottom Line  

For investors with significant amounts of cash and a short period of time, NCDs are a safe and stable way to earn interest. Together with Treasury bills, NCDs offer a good combination of liquidity and earning potential, without the volatility of potentially higher earning instruments such as a stocks.
What Is a Negotiable Instrument?  

A negotiable instrument is a signed document that promises a payment to a specified person or assignee. In other words, it is a formalized type of IOU: A transferable, signed document that promises to pay the bearer a sum of money at a future date or on-demand.



Common examples of negotiable instruments include personal checks, cashier's checks, money orders, certificates of deposit (CDs), promissory notes, and traveler's checks. The person receiving the payment, known as the payee, must be named or otherwise indicated on the instrument. Because they are transferable and assignable, some negotiable instruments may trade on a secondary market.





Key Takeaways

A negotiable instrument is a signed document that promises a payment to a specified person or assignee.Negotiable instruments are transferable, which allows the recipient to take the funds as cash, then use them as preferred.Examples of negotiable instruments include checks, money orders, and promissory notes.


   Understanding Negotiable Instruments  

Negotiable instruments are transferable, so the holder can take the funds as cash or use them for a transaction or other way as they wish. The fund amount listed on the document includes the specific amount promised, and must be paid in full either on-demand or at a specified time. A negotiable instrument can be transferred from one person to another. Once the instrument is transferred, the holder gains full legal title to the instrument.



These documents provide no other promise on the part of the entity issuing the instrument. In addition, no other instructions or conditions can be made for the bearer to receive the amount listed on the negotiable instrument. 



For an instrument to be negotiable, it must be signed, with a mark or signature, by the maker of the instrument—the one issuing the draft. This entity or person is known as the drawer of funds.






The term "negotiable" refers to the fact that the note in question can be transferred or assigned to another party; "non-negotiable" describes one that is firmly established and can't be adjusted or amended.


   Examples of Negotiable Instruments  

One of the more well-known negotiable instruments is the personal check. It serves as a draft, payable by the payer’s financial institution once it's received, in the exact amount specified. Similarly, a cashier’s check serves the same function but it requires the funds to be allocated, or set aside, for the payee prior to the check being issued.



Money orders are similar to checks but may or may not be issued by the payer’s financial institution. Often, cash must be received from the payer before the money order is issued. Once the money order is received by the recipient, it can be exchanged for cash.



Traveler’s checks function differently, as they require two signatures to complete a transaction. At the time of issue, the holder must sign the document to provide a specimen signature. Once the payer determines to whom the payment will be issued, a countersignature must be provided for payment. Traveler's checks are generally used when someone is traveling to a foreign country and is looking for a payment method that provides an additional level of security against theft or fraud while traveling.



Other common types of negotiable instruments include bills of exchange, promissory notes, drafts, and CDs.




What Is a Negotiable Instrument Used For?
A negotiable instrument promises a payment to a specified person or assignee. It is transferable, so it allows the holder to take the funds as cash, then use the money as they see fit.




What Is the Benefit of a Negotiable Instrument?
A negotiable instrument is easily transferable. There are no formalities and limited paperwork involved in making such a transfer. The instrument's ownership can be shifted simply by delivery or by a valid endorsement.




What Are the Two Kinds of Negotiable Instruments?
There are two basic types of negotiable instruments: an order to pay (this covers drafts and checks) and a promise to pay (promissory notes and CDs).


   The Bottom Line  

A negotiable instrument, like as a personal or cashier's check, is a document that promises an amount of money to a particular person or entity. It's characterized by being transferable; ownership of the instrument can be handed over simply by delivery or by a valid endorsement. The most common types of negotiable instruments are personal, cashier's, traveler's checks, money orders, promissory notes, and CDs.
What Is a Negotiable Order of Withdrawal (NOW) Account?  

A Negotiable Order of Withdrawal Account is an interest-earning demand deposit account. A customer with such an account is permitted to write drafts against money held on deposit. A Negotiable Order of Withdrawal Account is also known as a "NOW Account."





Key Takeaways

A NOW Account was a popular interest-earning demand deposit account prior to the Dodd-Frank Act.NOW Accounts served as an interest-bearing option for liquid funds.The Dodd-Frank Act repealed Regulation Q, which prohibited interest on demand deposit accounts.


   Understanding Negotiable Order of Withdrawal Account  

In the search to optimize returns on liquid funds, investors have several choices, including: interest-bearing checking accounts, high yield savings accounts, money market accounts, and certificates of deposit. The search for these types of accounts most often turns to commercial banks, mutual savings banks, and savings-and-loan associations.



Up until 2011, NOW Accounts were a viable choice for consumers looking to get at least some return from their idle cash. Prior to the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, U.S. banking regulations distinguished between "NOW Accounts" and "demand deposit accounts"–although similarities exist. This was because Regulation Q (Reg Q) prohibited banks from paying any interest on demand deposit, checking accounts. NOW Accounts and Super NOW Accounts were demand deposit alternatives with a temporary holding period that could actually pay some interest. Dodd-Frank repealed Req Q, allowing banks to pay interest on demand deposits, which basically eliminated any advantage that NOW Accounts offered.


   History of Negotiable Order of Withdrawal Accounts  

The history of preventing depositors from earning interest on accounts dates back to the Great Depression. Significant bank turmoil marked this era in the 1930s. Many viewed the interest payments on demand deposits as “excessive competition,” leading to diminished profit margins. This was primarily a factor for large New York banks.



As interest rates rose in the 1950s, many banks began trying to get around the ban. This started with non-pecuniary rewards, such as offering more convenient features, additional branch offices, and giveaways of consumer goods to attract new customers. Implicit interest also gradually gained traction. This included preferred loan rates. Banks often correlated these with a customer's demand deposit balances. Banks also began to display below-cost charges for common services, such as check-clearing.



Ronald Haselton, the former President and CEO of the Worcester, Massachusetts-based Consumer Savings Bank, was the first to develop the NOW Account officially. This became a direct challenge to the ban on interest payments on deposit accounts. In 1974 Congress permitted NOW Accounts in Massachusetts and New Hampshire. In 1976 the allowance was extended to all New England with a 5% interest rate ceiling. These accounts also came with the requirement of a seven-day advance notice.



In 1980 access to NOW Accounts was expanded nationwide. Then, in 1986 the 5% ceiling was lifted on these accounts. The removal of the ceiling led to a new iteration of the NOW Account, the Super NOW Account. Super NOW Accounts were known for offering higher rates of interest than regular NOW Accounts.



In 2010, provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act led to a repeal of Reg Q. The repeal of Reg Q fully eliminated the prohibition on interest-earning checking accounts. As a result, banks were given much broader latitude to develop interest-paying checking account offerings.


   NOW Accounts vs. Demand Deposit Accounts  

In the modern-day, NOW Accounts are generally only a thing of the past. Beyond the interest benefit, there main difference from demand deposit checking accounts when they were widely available was the seven-day holding period, which required customers to plan ahead for a possible seven-day advance notice. Not all banks invoked the holding period but it was the main attribute that characterized the accounts overall along with their measurable interest rate.



After the repeal of Req Q, checking account offerings became more widely varied. Throughout history, checking accounts have been relied on for immediate withdrawals. They are also relied on by banks for some short-term cash needs.



In general, competition among mainstream banks is relatively low, with most banks offering little to no interest at all. Accounts that do offer the highest relative interest rates usually come with some lengthy requirements for balance levels, routine direct deposits, and debit card usage. Specialty checking account products can also come with cash back offers or some other simple extra features as well.
What Is the Negotiated Dealing System (NDS)?  

The Negotiated Dealing System, or NDS, is an electronic trading platform operated by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to facilitate the issuing and exchange of government securities and other types of money market instruments.



The goal of the NDS was to reduce inefficiencies stemming from telephone orders and manual paperwork while increasing transparency for all market participants.





Key Takeaways

The Negotiated Dealing System (NDS) facilitates trading and dealing in Indian government securities.The NDS order matching system (NDS-OM) features two levels of market participation.Each member type has access to specific modules within the NDS-OM system.


   Understanding the Negotiated Dealing System  

The Negotiated Dealing System was introduced in February 2002 to help the Reserve Bank of India, or RBI, enhance the dealings of fixed-income investments. While the RBI owns the NDS, it is administered by the Clearing Corporation of India Ltd. (CCIL).



Prior to the NDS, the country's government securities market was primarily telephone-based, which meant that buyers and sellers had to place trades over the phone, submit physical Subsidiary General Ledger transfer forms, and issue checks for the settlement of funds to the Reserve Bank of India. These slow and inefficient procedures led to the development and implementation of the NDS.



In August 2005, the RBI introduced the Negotiated Dealing System - Order Matching system, or NDS-OM, an electronic, screen-based, anonymous, order-driven trading system for dealing in government securities. The system is designed to bring transparency to secondary market transactions while enabling members to place bids and offers directly on the NDS-OM screen.


   How the NDS Works  

There are two types of NDS-OM members, including:



Direct Members - Direct members have current accounts with the RBI and can directly settle trades on NDS-OM.Indirect Members - Indirect members do not have current accounts with the RBI and must settle through NDS-OM members that have direct accounts. Most foreign institutional investors have indirect access, while resident entities may have direct access.



Many other countries have similar electronic systems in place for managing government securities, money market accounts, and related securities to increase transparency and lower costs.



For more information about the Negotiated Dealing System, see the RBI's Negotiated Dealing System Overview.


   NDS Modules  

The Negotiated Dealing System consists of two modules, which are designed for different types of member institutions.



These modules include:



Primary Market Module: The RBI uses the primary auction platform for the auction of federal and state securities, as well as treasury bills. The platform enables participants to electronically submit their bids in primary auctions and receive allotment reports.Secondary Market Module: Over-the-counter trading often happens over the phone, but everyone is required to report these trades using the NDS secondary market module. The data then flows to the Clearing Corporation of India Ltd. for clearing and settlement, which avoids the need for paper-based settlement processes.
What Is Negotiation?  

The term negotiation refers to a strategic discussion intended to resolve an issue in a way that both parties find acceptable. Negotiations involve give and take, which means one or both parties will usually need to make some concessions.



Negotiation can take place between buyers and sellers, employers and prospective employees, two or more governments, and other parties. Here is how negotiation works and advice for negotiating successfully.





Key Takeaways

Negotiation is a strategic discussion between two parties to resolve an issue in a way that both find acceptable.Negotiations can take place between buyers and sellers, employers and prospective employees, or the governments of two or more countries, among others.Successful negotiation usually involves compromises on the part of one or all parties.


   How Negotiations Work  

Negotiations involve two or more parties who come together to reach some end goal that is agreeable to all those involved. One party will put its position forward, while the other will either accept the conditions presented or counter with its own position. The process continues until both parties agree to a resolution or negotiations break off without one.



Experienced negotiators will often try to learn as much as possible about the other party's position before a negotiation begins, including what the strengths and weaknesses of that position are, how to prepare to defend their positions, and any counter-arguments the other party will likely make.



The length of time it takes for negotiations to conclude depends on the circumstances. Negotiation can take as little as a few minutes, or, in more complex cases, much longer. For example, a buyer and seller may negotiate for minutes or hours for the sale of a car. But the governments of two or more countries may take months or years to negotiate the terms of a major trade deal.






Some negotiations require the use of a skilled negotiator such as a professional advocate, a real estate agent or broker, or an attorney.


   Examples of Negotiations  

Negotiating can take place between individuals, businesses, governments, and in any other situation where two parties have competing interests. Here are two everyday examples:



Say you plan to buy a new SUV but don't want to pay the full manufacturer's suggested retail price (MSRP). In that case, you might offer what you consider a fair price. The dealer can accept your offer or counter with another price figure. If you have good negotiating skills, you may be able to drive the price down to a level where you're happy and the dealer is still able to walk away with a profit, albeit a slimmer one.



Or, suppose you've been offered a new job but don't consider the salary sufficient. An employer's first compensation offer is often not its best possible offer, so it may have some room to negotiate. In fact, a 2016 survey by the CareerBuilder website found that 73% of employers were open to negotiating a starting salary with job seekers. And if higher pay isn't a possibility, the employer may be willing to offer something additional, such as more vacation time or better benefits.



In both of these examples—as in most successful negotiations—both parties have made compromises, while also achieving their principal goals.






A 2022 study by Fidelity Investments found that while 58% of workers had accepted their employer's initial offer, 85% of those who attempted to negotiate got at least some of what they asked for.


   The Stages of the Negotiation Process  

Regardless of what you're negotiating over or with whom, negotiation usually involves several distinct steps.


  Preparation  

Before negotiations begin, there are a few questions it helps to ask yourself. Those include:



What do you hope to gain, ideally?What are your realistic expectations?What compromises are you willing to make?What happens if you don't reach your end goal?



Preparation can also include finding out as much as you can about the other party and their likely point of view. In the case of the SUV negotiation above, you could probably find out how much room the dealer has to bargain by looking up actual sales prices for that vehicle online.



Also, marshal any facts that will help you make a persuasive case. If you're negotiating for a new job or a raise at work, for instance, come armed with concrete examples of your accomplishments, including hard numbers if possible. Consider bringing testimonials from satisfied clients and/or coworkers if that will buttress your case.



Many experienced negotiators consider preparation to be the single most important step in the entire process.


  Exchanging Information  

Once you're prepped for the negotiation, you're ready to sit down with the other party. If they're smart, they have probably prepared themselves, as well. This is the point at which both sides will present their initial positions in terms of what they want and are willing to give in return.



Being able to clearly articulate your wishes is critical to the negotiation process. You may not get everything on your wish list, but the other party, if they want to reach a deal, will have a better idea of what it might take to make that happen. You will have a better idea of their position, and where they might be willing to bend, as well.


  Bargaining  

Now that both parties have laid out their case, you're ready to start bargaining.



An important key to this step is to hear the other party out and refrain from being dismissive or argumentative. Successful negotiating involves a little give and take on both sides, and an adversarial relationship is likely to be less effective than a collegial one.



Also bear in mind that a negotiation can take time, so try not to rush the process or allow yourself to be rushed.


  Closing the Deal  

Once both parties are satisfied with the results, it's time to end the negotiations. The next step may be in the form of a verbal agreement or written contract. The latter is usually a better idea as it clearly outlines the position of each party and can be enforced if one party doesn't live up to their end of the bargain.


   Tips for Successful Negotiating  

Some people may be born negotiators, but many of us are not. Here are a few tips that can help.



Justify Your Position. Don't just walk into negotiations without being able to back up your position. Bring information to show that you've done your research and you're committed to reaching a deal.Put Yourself in Their Shoes. Remember that the other side has things it wants out of the deal, too. What can you offer that will help them reach their goal (or most of it) without giving away more than you want to or can afford to?Keep Your Emotions in Check. It's easy to get caught up in the moment and be swayed by your personal feelings, especially ones like anger and frustration. But don't let your emotions cause you to lose sight of your goal.Know When to Walk Away. Before you begin the negotiating process, it's a good idea to know what you'll accept as a bare minimum and when you'd rather walk away from the table than continue to bargain. There is no use trying to reach a deal if both sides are hopelessly dug in. Even if you don't want to end negotiations entirely, pausing them can give everyone involved a chance to regroup and possibly return to the table with a fresh perspective.




What Makes a Good Negotiator?
Some of the key skills of a good negotiator are the ability to listen, to think under pressure, to clearly articulate their point of view, and to be willing to compromise, within reason.




What Is ZOPA?
ZOPA is an acronym from the business world. It stands for zone of possible agreement. ZOPA is a way of visualizing where the positions of the parties to a negotiation overlap. It is within that zone that compromises can be reached.




What Is BATNA?
BATNA is another acronym from the world of business, meaning best alternative to a negotiated agreement. It refers to the next course of action a negotiator may take if a negotiation fails to arrive at a satisfactory conclusion. Veteran negotiators often go into a negotiation knowing what their likely BATNA would be, just in case.


   The Bottom Line  

Negotiating is essential part of day-to-life, the business world, and international affairs. Regardless of what you're negotiating, being a successful negotiator means knowing what you want, trying to understand the other party's (or parties') position, and compromising if necessary. A successful negotiation leaves everyone satisfied that they have gotten a deal they can live with.
Nelson Peltz is a renowned activist investor and billionaire. With Peter May and Edward Garden, he founded Trian Fund Management. L.P. in 2005.



Peltz has served on the boards of multiple corporations, including Ingersoll-Rand, Mondelez International, and Proctor & Gamble.





Key Takeaways

• Nelson Peltz co-founded Trian Fund Management, L.P. in 2005.• He is an activist investor who seeks to own a significant stake in publicly-traded companies.• Peltz has sat on the boards of Proctor & Gamble, Ingersoll-Rand, and the Heinz Company.


   Early Life and Education  

Nelson Peltz was born on June 24, 1942, in Brooklyn, New York. He briefly attended the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. In 1963, Peltz joined A. Peltz & Sons, a wholesale food distribution business founded by his grandfather in 1896, as a delivery truck driver.



Peltz grew the small company with brother Robert B. Peltz and Peter May, shifting the product line from produce to institutional frozen food, and launching Flagstaff Corp. With $150 million in sales, Flagstaff Corp. went public in 1972.


   Buying and Selling  

In 1979, Peltz sold the foodservice business division of Flagstaff Corp. to a group of investors, one of many lucrative financial transactions he would make in the food industry.



During the 1980s, Nelson Peltz turned a modest income into a multi-million dollar fortune through various leveraged buyouts financed with junk bonds, controversial high-yield instruments sold by financier Michael Milken.



He acquired an interest in Triangle Industries in 1983, valued at an estimated $80 million, and sold it for $4 billion in 1988. Junk bonds helped finance his acquisition of National Can Corporation in 1985 for $460 million and the packaging division of American Can Company in 1986 for $570 million.



In 1997, through an investment vehicle they established, Triarc Companies, Inc., Peltz and partner Peter May, bought Snapple from Quaker Oats for $300 million, successfully turned the company around, and sold the beverage company three years later to Cadbury’s Schweppes for over $1.45 billion.


   Trian Fund Management  

In 2005, Nelson Peltz co-founded Trian Fund Management with Peter May and Edward Garden. A hedge fund investment firm, Trian has investments in companies such as Wendy’s, BNY Mellon, Ingersoll Rand, Legg Mason Inc., Heinz, Kraft Foods, Family Dollar, Tiffany & Co., and Domino’s Pizza. Trian Fund Management has $8.5 billion in assets under management as of 2022.



Regarded as an activist investor, Nelson Peltz, with Trian, buys stakes in companies considered undervalued and then lobbies for changes within the company such as higher dividends, share buybacks, cost cuts, management changes, and sometimes company dissolution. Nelson Peltz has successfully acquired board seats at many companies through Trian Fund Management. Peltz vied for a board seat at food and beverage giant Pepsico to encourage its beverage unit to spin off from the better performing snacks division.





ACTIVIST INVESTOR

An individual or group that buys a significant stake in a public company to influence how the company is run, such as by obtaining seats on its board of directors.



Peltz has also successfully lobbied and won board seats at Ingersoll-Rand, Heinz, Mondelez International, and Proctor & Gamble, all to influence change and increase stock prices. In 2022, Trian Fund Management is now represented on the board of Janus Henderson and is aiming to influence Unilever after amassing a large stake in the consumer products giant.




How Did Nelson Peltz Change Snapple?
When Nelson Peltz invested in Snapple, the turnaround was featured as a Harvard Business School case study. Peltz concluded that the brand and culture were out of alignment at Snapple and both the brand and the corporate owner would suffer. His investment and influence created a successful change.




How Has Nelson Peltz Donated to Political Fundraisers?
Nelson Peltz has donated to the presidential elections of George W. Bush and Donald Trump.




Why Does Nelson Peltz Refer to Himself as a Constructivist?
The term activist investor often has a negative connotation as one who would like to bombard a company with changes and unnecessary influence. Peltz prefers the term constructivist, claiming he merely presses companies to increase revenues and encourages them to spend more on marketing.


   The Bottom Line  

Since 1972, when his first company was sold, Nelson Peltz has continued to make substantial investments in American corporations. Along with his hedge fund firm, Trian Fund Management, Peltz, an activist investor, has been a force at companies such as Proctor & Gamble, DuPont, and Family Dollar.
What Is Neoclassical Economics?  

Neoclassical economics is a broad theory that focuses on supply and demand as the driving forces behind the production, pricing, and consumption of goods and services. It emerged in around 1900 to compete with the earlier theories of classical economics.





Key Takeaways

Classical economists assume that the most important factor in a product's price is its cost of production.Neoclassical economists argue that the consumer's perception of a product's value is the driving factor in its price.The difference between actual production costs and retail price is the economic surplus.Neoclassical economic theory can impact how businesses operate gov and financial institutions operate, as well as how governments regulate markets.Critics argue the theory doesn't account for other factors that impact consumer decisions, such as limited information, resource inequality, or emotional thinking.



One of the key early assumptions of neoclassical economics is that utility to consumers, not the cost of production, is the most important factor in determining the value of a product or service. This approach was developed in the late 19th century based on books by William Stanley Jevons, Carl Menger, and Léon Walras.



Neoclassical economics theories underlie modern-day economics, along with the tenets of Keynesian economics. Although the neoclassical approach is the most widely taught theory of economics, it has its detractors.


   Understanding Neoclassical Economics  

Neoclassical economics emerged as a theory in the 1900s. Neoclassical economists believe that a consumer's first concern is to maximize personal satisfaction, also known as utility. Therefore, they make purchasing decisions based on their evaluations of the utility of a product or service. This theory coincides with rational behavior theory, which states that people act rationally when making economic decisions. In other words, people make a logical choice between two options based on their perception of which one is better for them.



Further, neoclassical economics stipulates that a product or service often has value above and beyond its production costs. While classical economic theory assumes that a product's value derives from the cost of materials plus the cost of labor, neoclassical economists say that consumer perceptions of the value of a product affect its price and demand.



Finally, this economic theory states that competition leads to an efficient allocation of resources within an economy. The forces of supply and demand create market equilibrium.



In contrast to Keynesian economics, the neoclassical school states that savings determine investment. It concludes that equilibrium in the market and growth at full employment should be the primary economic priorities of government. 



These principles can be summed up in three assumptions that underpin neoclassical economic theory:



Rational thinking: People make rational choices between options based on the value that they identify in each choice.Maximizing: Consumers aim to maximize utility, while businesses aim to maximize profits.Information: People act independently based on having all the relevant information related to a choice or action.


   Criticisms of Neoclassical Economics  

Critics of neoclassical economics believe that the neoclassical approach cannot accurately describe actual economies. They maintain that the assumption that consumers behave rationally in making choices ignores the vulnerability of human nature to emotional responses.






Neoclassical economists maintain that the forces of supply and demand lead to an efficient allocation of resources.



Other critiques of neoclassical economics include:



Distribution of resources: Resource distribution impacts how people make decisions, but resources are not distributed equally. There are important differences, especially between those whose income comes from performing labor and those whose income comes from owning capital.Appropriation of resources: Resources are often claimed by those with economic or military power, regardless of whether they were previously owned by people or groups with less power.Available choices: People may attempt to make rational decisions, but they can only choose between the available choices. For example, choosing between a job that endangers your health or losing your family home is not the same as choosing between a dangerous job and a safe one.Irrational decisions: People do not always make the most rational decision, or only consider the benefit to themselves as an individual when making choices. They may be influenced by social pressure, the needs of others, available choices, income restraints, imperfect information, or existing power structures to make choices that don't maximize utility to themselves.Pursuit of profit: Maximizing profit is not the only or best way for markets to function, as this can exacerbate inequality, exploit workers, and damage the environment or community. Markets or businesses structured around solving a problem, such as non-profit organizations or single-payer healthcare systems, can often function with equal levels of efficiency and effectiveness.Standards of living: Producing more goods and services (having a higher GDP) does not always equal a higher standard of living. Neoclassical economics equates standards of living with "amount of goods and services consumed," but consuming more does not always improve measures such as health, life expectancy, social equality, economic stability, or other factors in quality of life.



Some critics also blame neoclassical economics for inequalities in global debt and trade relations because the theory holds that labor rights and living conditions will inevitably improve as a result of economic growth.


   Neoclassical Economics In the Real World  

Neoclassical economic theory is important because of how it affects both markets and economic policy.


  Business  

The principles of neoclassical economics can be used by companies to set prices and grow their business.



A business that understands neoclassical economics, for example, won't just look at the cost of making a product when setting a price. It will also consider what competitors are charging, what customers are willing to pay, and how to use branding to increase what customers are willing to pay. A savvy business owner, for example, could create a marketing campaign that positions their product as the favorite choice of popular figures on social media. By influencing customer perception of their brand, the business will be able to charge more for their products.


  Governments and Banks  

Governments and banks can also follow neoclassical principles, which will impact economic policy and market regulation. Followers of neoclassical economics believe that there is no upper limit to the profits that can be made by smart capitalists since the value of a product is driven by consumer perception. This difference between the actual costs of the product and the price it is sold for is termed the economic surplus.



This type of thinking was evident in the lead-up to the 2008 financial crisis. Modern economists believed that synthetic financial instruments had no price ceiling because investors in them perceived the housing market as limitless in its potential for growth. As a result, many investment banks and lenders continued to grow the market for subprime mortgages, assuming that continued growth in the market would prevent investment instruments that included these mortgages from losing value. These financial instruments were mostly unregulated by the federal government, allowing lenders and investors to drive growth in the subprime mortgage market.



Both the economists and the investors were wrong, and the market for those financial instruments crashed. The housing market did eventually stop growing and begin to decline. Subprime lenders found themselves underwater on mortgages that they could not afford. They began to default in large numbers. This not only left huge numbers of borrowers unable to afford their homes, but it also undermined the stability of the banks and lenders who had backed their mortgages. The entire global economy suffered and required government intervention to stabilize.




What Are the Main Elements of Neoclassical Economics?
The main assumptions of neoclassical economics are that consumers make rational decisions to maximize utility, that businesses aim to maximize profits, that people act independently based on having all the relevant information related to a choice or action, and that markets will self-regulate in response to supply and demand.




Who Was the Founder of Neoclassical Economics?
The movement from classical to neoclassical economic theory grew from the work of William Stanley Jevons, Carl Menger, and Léon Walras in the late 1800s. The dominant text of neoclassical economics, Principles of Economics, was written by Alfred Marshall and used in the early 1900s.




What Is the Difference Between Neoclassical and Keynesian Economics?
Neoclassical economic theory believes that markets will naturally restore themselves. Prices, and therefore wages, will adjust on their own in response to changes in consumer demand. Keynesian economic theory does not believe markets can adjust naturally to these changes. It encourages using fiscal and monetary policy to impact the economy, specifically by slowing the economy during booms and stimulating it during recessions.


   The Bottom Line  

Unlike classical economists, who believe the cost of production is the most important factor in a product's price, neoclassical economists state that prices should be based on how consumers perceive the value of a product. They also believe that consumers make rational decisions to maximize utility.



Under neoclassical theory, markets are self-regulating. Competition leads to efficiently allocated resources. The interaction of supply and demand creates equilibrium, which allows markets to adjust to changes without needing to be rebalanced by fiscal or monetary policy.



Critics of neoclassical economics argue that it does not take into account real-world factors that influence consumer decisions. These can include limited access to information, unequal distribution of resources, social constraints, and emotional thinking. Critics also point to the dangers of businesses attempting only to maximize profit or looking at GDP as the best indicator of standard of living.
What Is the Neoclassical Growth Theory?  

Neoclassical growth theory is an economic theory that outlines how a steady economic growth rate results from a combination of three driving forces—labor, capital, and technology. The National Bureau of Economic Research names Robert Solow and Trevor Swan as having the credit of developing and introducing the model of long-run economic growth in 1956. The model first considered exogenous population increases to set the growth rate but, in 1957, Solow incorporated technology change into the model.






Robert Solow and Trevor Swan first introduced the neoclassical growth theory in 1956.The theory states that economic growth is the result of three factors—labor, capital, and technology.While an economy has limited resources in terms of capital and labor, the contribution from technology to growth is boundless.


   How the Neoclassical Growth Theory Works  

The theory states that short-term equilibrium results from varying amounts of labor and capital in the production function. The theory also argues that technological change has a major influence on an economy, and economic growth cannot continue without technological advances.



Neoclassical growth theory outlines the three factors necessary for a growing economy. These are labor, capital, and technology. However, neoclassical growth theory clarifies that temporary equilibrium is different from long-term equilibrium, which does not require any of these three factors.


   Special Consideration  

This growth theory posits that the accumulation of capital within an economy, and how people use that capital, is important for economic growth. Further, the relationship between the capital and labor of an economy determines its output. Finally, technology is thought to augment labor productivity and increase the output capabilities of labor.



Therefore, the production function of neoclassical growth theory is used to measure the growth and equilibrium of an economy. That function is Y = AF (K, L).



Y denotes an economy's gross domestic product (GDP)
K represents its share of capital
L describes the amount of unskilled labor in an economy 
A represents a determinant level of technology



However, because of the relationship between labor and technology, an economy's production function is often rewritten as Y = F (K, AL).



Increasing any one of the inputs shows the effect on GDP and, therefore, the equilibrium of an economy. However, if the three factors of neoclassical growth theory are not all equal, the returns of both unskilled labor and capital on an economy diminish. These diminished returns imply that increases in these two inputs have exponentially decreasing returns while technology is boundless in its contribution to growth and the resulting output it can produce.


   Example of the Neoclassical Growth Theory  

A 2016 study published in Economic Themes by Dragoslava Sredojević, Slobodan Cvetanović, and Gorica Bošković titled "Technological Changes in Economic Growth Theory: Neoclassical, Endogenous, and Evolutionary-Institutional Approach" examined the role of technology specifically and its role in the neoclassical growth theory.



The authors find a consensus among different economic perspectives all pointing to technological change as a key generator of economic growth. For example, neoclassicists have historically pressured some governments to invest in scientific and research development toward innovation.



Endogenous theory supporters emphasize factors such as technological spillover and research and development as catalysts for innovation and economic growth. Lastly, evolutionary and institutional economists consider the economic and social environment in their models for technological innovation and economic growth.
What Is Neoliberalism?  

Neoliberalism is a policy model that encompasses both politics and economics. It favors private enterprise and seeks to transfer the control of economic factors from the government to the private sector.



Many neoliberal policies concern the efficient functioning of free market capitalism and focus on limiting government spending, government regulation, and public ownership.



Neoliberalism is often associated with the leadership of Margaret Thatcher, the prime minister of the U.K. from 1979 to 1990 (and leader of the Conservative Party from 1975 to 1990) and Ronald Reagan, the 40th president of the U.S. from 1981 to 1989.



More recently, neoliberalism has been associated with policies of austerity and attempts to cut government spending on social programs.





Key Takeaways


The policies of neoliberalism typically support fiscal austerity, deregulation, free trade, privatization, and a reduction in government spending.
Neoliberalism is often associated with the economic policies of Margaret Thatcher in the United Kingdom and Ronald Reagan in the United States.
There are many criticisms of neoliberalism, including its potential danger to democracy, workers’ rights, and sovereign nations’ right to self-determination.
It's also been accused of giving corporations too much power and worsening economic inequality.
However, neoliberal initiatives concerning free trade, industry deregulation, income tax and capital gains tax cuts all had bipartisan support.













Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   Understanding Neoliberalism  

Neoliberalism is a political and economic philosophy that emphasizes free trade, deregulation, globalization, and a reduction in government spending. It's related to laissez-faire economics, a school of thought that prescribes a minimal amount of government interference in the economic issues of individuals and society.



Laissez-faire economics proposes that continued economic growth will lead to technological innovation, expansion of the free market, and limited state interference.



Additionally, neoliberalism is sometimes confused with libertarianism. However, neoliberals typically advocate for more government intervention in the economy and society than libertarianism. For example, while neoliberals usually favor progressive taxation, libertarians often eschew this stance in favor of schemes like a flat tax rate for all taxpayers.



In addition, neoliberals often do not oppose measures such as bailouts of major industries, which are anathema to libertarians.



While neoliberal policies may be considered conservative and contrary to the political beliefs of many, it should be noted that various U.S. neoliberal initiatives such as free trade agreements, the deregulation of the transportation, utilities, and banking industries, and cuts in the top income tax rate and the capital gains tax all had bipartisan support.


   Characteristics of Neoliberalism  

Neoliberalism involves the belief that greater economic freedom leads to greater economic and social progress for individuals. It supports:



Free enterprise, competition, deregulation, and the importance of individual responsibility
Opposition to the expansion of government power, state welfare, inflation
Minimizing government control of industry and boosting private sector ownership of business and property
Free market capitalism and the efficient allocation of resources
Globalization rather than heavily regulated markets and protectionism
A reduction in government spending and lower taxes
Less government control over economic activity to enhance the efficient functioning of the economy
An increase in the impact by the private sector on the economy
A reduction in union power and greater flexibility in employment
Government intervention when it's needed to help implement, sustain, and protect free market activities






President Jimmy Carter's deregulation of the airline industry in 1978 is an example of a neoliberal policy in action. The Airline Deregulation Act removed government control over fares, routes, and who could enter the market.


   Liberalism vs. Neoliberalism  

At its core, liberalism is a broad political philosophy. It holds liberty to a high standard and defines all social, economic, and political aspects of society, including the role of government.



Neoliberalism is essentially an economic ideology. The policies of neoliberalism are more narrowly focused and are primarily concerned with markets and the policies and measures that influence the economy.


   Criticism of Neoliberalism  

There are many criticisms of neoliberalism.


  Misguided Free Market Approach to Public Services  

One common criticism of neoliberalism is that advocating for a free market approach in areas such as health and education is misguided because these services are public services. Public services are not subject to the same profit motivation as other industries.



More importantly, adopting a free market approach in the areas of health and education can lead to an increase in inequality and the underfunding of resources (health and education) that are necessary for the long-term health and viability of an economy.


  Monopolies  

The adoption of neoliberal policies in the Western world has run concurrent with a rise in inequality in both wealth and income. While skilled workers may be in a position to command higher wages, low-skilled workers are more likely to see stagnant wages.



Policies associated with neoliberalism tend to encourage the presence of monopolies, which increase the profits of corporations at the expense of benefits to consumers.


  Increased Financial Instability  

Contrary to what proponents of neoliberalism typically claim, capital deregulation has not necessarily helped economic development. Rather, capital deregulation has led to an increase in financial instability including economic events that, at times, have sent shockwaves around the world.



In fact, an International Monetary Fund (IMF) report into neoliberalism reveals that an increase in capital flows has been a factor in the increased risk of adverse economic cycles.


  Inequality  

Neoliberal policies have been proven to increase inequality. This inequality can hinder the long-term growth prospects of an economy. On one end of the spectrum, those who earn a low income have limited spending power. At the same time, those who become richer have a higher propensity to save.



In the latter scenario, wealth doesn't trickle down in the way that proponents of neoliberalism claim that it will.


  Globalization  

Finally, neoliberalism's emphasis on economic efficiency has encouraged globalization, which opponents see as depriving sovereign nations of the right to self-determination.



Neoliberalism's naysayers also claim that its call to replace government-owned corporations with private ones can reduce efficiency. While privatization may increase productivity, they assert, the improvement may not be sustainable because of the world’s limited geographical space.



In addition, those opposed to neoliberalism add that it is anti-democratic, can lead to exploitation and social injustice, and may criminalize poverty.




What Is Neoliberalism in Simple Terms?
It's an economic model or philosophy that emphasizes that, in a free society, greater economic and social progress can be made when government regulation is minimized, government spending and taxes are reduced, and the government doesn't have strict control over the economy. Neoliberalism does not oppose all government intervention. However, it does wish to see it limited to only when it's necessary to support free markets and free enterprise.




What Are the Effects of Neoliberalism?
Some effects might be freer markets, access to more products and services to meet consumer demand, greater revenue and higher profits. Price reductions due to greater competition can also be an effect. Savings can result from a more efficient allocation of resources. The better organization of workforces and ability to hire needed talent for specific jobs can result from neoliberal policies, as well. Others might point out some of the negative effects believed to be associated with neoliberalism. These could include economic inequality, the growth of monopolies, a lack of job security, the loss of jobs due to outsourcing, and an increasing indifference to the needs and well-being of individuals.




What Is an Example of Neoliberalism?
The North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) is one example. By this agreement, Canada, Mexico, and the U.S. agreed to remove all trade restrictions between their countries to open up trade and increase the economic benefits for each.
What Is the Nepalese Rupee (NPR)?  

The Nepalese rupee (NPR) is the national currency of Nepal. It is administered by the central bank of Nepal, the Nepal Rastra Bank. The most common symbol used when referencing the NPR is Rs, although Rp is also sometimes used.





Key Takeaways

The Nepalese rupee (NPR) is the national currency of Nepal, which was introduced in 1932, replacing the Nepalese mohar.The NPR exchange rate is pegged to the Indian rupee (INR) at a rate of 1.6 NPR to INR.Nepal has experienced increased economic growth in recent years, along with declining rates of inflation and a growing gross domestic product (GDP).The currency is available in coins and bills of various denominations. Coins come in rupees and paisas.Transacting in the NPR can be difficult for foreigners because there are three primary exchange rates operating in Nepal: an official central bank rate, a legal private bank rate, and an illegal black market rate.


   Understanding the Nepalese Rupee (NPR)  

The NPR was introduced in 1932, replacing the previous currency, the Nepalese mohar. Its exchange rate is based on a peg set against the Indian rupee (INR). In 1993, Nepal introduced new convertibility to its currency. The change pegged the NPR to the INR at a rate of NPR 160 to INR 100.



The NPR is divided into units known as "paisa" and is circulated in both coin and banknote forms. One rupee is made up of 100 paisa. Today, the NPR's coins are denominated in units of 1, 5, 10, 25, and 50 paisa. Coins are also denominated in rupees: 1, 2, 5, and 10. The banknotes are denominated in units of 1, 2, 5, 10, 20, 50, 100, 500, and 1,000 rupees.


   Exchanging NPR  

Transacting in the NPR can be difficult for foreigners because there are three primary exchange rates operating in Nepal: an official central bank rate, a legal private bank rate, and an illegal black market rate. Of these, the most favorable exchange rates are generally found in the black market. For this reason, much local commerce takes place at the black-market exchange rates.



Most tourists, however, will use the private banks and will therefore obtain a less favorable rate. The same is true for formal exchange-rate businesses and the foreign-exchange services offered at the Kathmandu airport. These authorized agents will transact at private banking rates.



Because of the legal ambiguities involved, travelers are advised to obtain and keep receipts for all their currency exchange transactions, in order to be able to prove that only legal agents were used.


   Nepal's Economy  

Nepal's economy has grown at an average rate of roughly 4% between 1965 and 2019. More recently, gross domestic product (GDP) growth has risen above the 5% threshold, with the past three years showing growth of over 6.66%, -2.37%, and 4.25%, respectively. Between 2008 and 2016, inflation hovered around 9% but dropped to roughly 3.6% in 2017. Since then it has edged back up and was slightly higher than 4% in 2021.



Relative to the USD, the NPR has depreciated over the past 10 years. In September 2009, 1 USD was equivalent to just over 77 NPR; however, by October 2022, the value of 1 USD had risen to approximately 130 NPR.




How Much Is $1 U.S. in Nepal?
In Nepal, $1 U.S. is worth 130.6 Nepalese rupees as of Oct. 2, 2022. It is approximately 127 rupees to one euro.




Is the Nepal Rupee the Same as the Indian Rupee?
No, the Nepal rupee is not the same as the Indian rupee. They are two different currencies belonging to two different nations. The Nepal rupee, however, is pegged to the Indian rupee. "Rupee" is the name of the currency for many countries, much as the dollar is. For example, the U.S. dollar, Canadian Dollar, and Australian dollar.




Which Is the Lowest Currency in the World?
The currency with the lowest value in the world is the Iranian real. The reason its currency is so low is because of its poor economy, which has been battered by global sanctions due to the country's involvement in terrorism and its general political instability.
What Is a Nest Egg?  

A nest egg is a substantial sum of money or other assets that have been saved or invested for a specific purpose. Such assets are generally earmarked for longer-term objectives, the most common being retirement, buying a home, and education.



The term can also refer to money kept aside as a reserve to deal with unexpected emergencies such as a medical problem or urgent housing repairs. “Nest egg” has been used to refer to savings since the late 17th century. The term is believed to have been derived from poultry farmers’ tactic of placing eggs—both real and fake—in hens’ nests to induce them to lay more eggs, which meant more income for these farmers.


   Nest Eggs Explained  

The foremost investment objective of a nest egg is generally preserving capital, since it represents funds that have been accumulated over a considerable time. However, the portfolio should also have a growth component to offset the effects of inflation over time. A nest egg should typically be invested in relatively conservative instruments such as certificates of deposit, bonds, and dividend-paying blue chips. The exact allocation of these securities within a nest egg should be based on asset allocation principles as well as the investor’s risk tolerance, time horizon, and investment objectives.





Key Takeaways

A nest egg is a substantial sum of money or other assets that have been saved or invested for a specific purpose.Such assets are generally earmarked for longer-term objectives, the most common being retirement, buying a home, and education.A nest egg should typically be invested in relatively conservative instruments such as certificates of deposit, bonds, and dividend-paying blue chips.



It would be folly to invest nest egg proceeds in certain volatile investments in hopes of achieving a high rate of return. These investments include commodities, small-cap stocks, and currencies since their inherent volatility makes them less suited for conservative investing.


   The Importance of a Nest Egg  

For many years, a common objective for individuals was to save a nest egg of at least $1 million in order to live comfortably in retirement. Reaching that sum would, in theory, allow the individual to sustain themselves on their retirement investment income generated annually. Based on annual inflation, however, the ideal size of a nest egg continues to increase as the purchasing power of the dollar diminishes.






A nest egg should typically be invested in relatively conservative instruments such as certificates of deposit, bonds, and dividend-paying blue chips.



In addition to cash and securities, other assets that are expected to grow in value and generate a positive return on investment over time might make up part of a nest egg. Prized artwork and other rare collectibles may be held as assets to appreciate and later possibly sold to provide the hard currency for retirement.



Real estate in a prime location that is likewise held in ownership with the expectation of the property value increasing could also be part of a nest egg. Even if they do not develop the property themselves, a landowner might hold on to real estate anticipating its value will increase and that a buyer will offer them the return they seek. The proceeds from the sale could then go towards their retirement.
What Is Net Asset Value (NAV)?  

Net Asset Value is the net value of an investment fund's assets less its liabilities, divided by the number of shares outstanding. Most commonly used in the context of a mutual fund or an exchange-traded fund (ETF), NAV is the price at which the shares of the funds registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are traded.





Key Takeaways

Net Asset Value is the net value of an investment fund's assets less its liabilities, divided by the number of shares outstanding.NAV is commonly used as a per-share value calculated for a mutual fund or ETF.NAV is calculated at the end of each trading day based on the closing market prices of the portfolio's securities. 












Investopedia / Nez Riaz


   Understanding Net Asset Value (NAV)  

For companies and business entities, the difference between the assets and the liabilities is known as the net assets or the net worth or the capital of the company. The term NAV is applied to the fund valuation and pricing, which is arrived at by dividing the difference between assets and liabilities by the number of shares held by the investors.



The fund’s NAV represents a “per-share” value of the fund, which makes it easier to be used for valuing and transacting the fund shares.





NAV Formula

NAV = (Assets - Liabilities) / Total number of outstanding shares



NAV is often close to or equal to the book value per share of a business. Companies considered to have high growth prospects are traditionally valued more than NAV might suggest. For closed-end funds, NAV is most frequently compared to the stock price (market value per share) to find undervalued or overvalued investments.






   Mutual Funds and NAV  

Mutual funds collect money from a large number of investors, then use that money to invest in securities, such as stocks, bonds, and money market instruments. Each investor gets a specified number of shares in proportion to their invested amount. The pricing of each share is based on NAV.



Unlike a stock whose price changes are posted throughout the day, mutual fund pricing is based on the end-of-the-day methodology based on the activity of the securities in the fund.



At the end of the trading day, managers of a mutual fund compute the closing price of all the securities within its portfolio, adds the value of any additional assets, accounts for liabilities, and calculate NAV based on the number of outstanding shares.


   NAV in Closed-End Funds vs. Open-End Funds  

An open-end fund can issue an unlimited number of shares, does not trade on exchanges, and is priced each day at the close of trading at their NAV price. Most mutual funds, such as those in 401k plans, are open-end funds.



Closed-end funds are listed on a stock exchange, trade similarly to securities, and can trade at a price that's not equal to their NAV. ETFs trade like stocks and their market value can differ from their actual NAV.



This allows for profitable trading opportunities for active ETF traders who can spot timely opportunities. Similar to mutual funds, ETFs also calculate their NAV daily at the close of the market for reporting purposes but also calculate and disseminate intra-day NAV multiple times per minute in real-time.


   NAV and Fund Performance  

Fund investors often try to assess the performance of a mutual fund based on their NAV differentials between two dates. An investor may compare the NAV on January 1 to the NAV on December 31, and see the difference in the two values as a gauge of the fund’s performance. However, changes in NAV between two dates aren’t the best representation of mutual fund performance.



Mutual funds commonly pay out all of their income like dividends and interest earned to their shareholders. Additionally, mutual funds are also obligated to distribute the accumulated realized capital gains to the shareholders.



As these two components, income, and gains, are regularly paid out, the NAV decreases accordingly. Therefore, though a mutual fund investor earns income and returns, individual earnings are not reflected in the absolute NAV values when compared between two dates.



A reliable measure of mutual fund performance is the annual total return, which is the actual rate of return of an investment or a pool of investments over a given evaluation period. Investors and analysts also look at compounded annual growth rate (CAGR), which represents the mean annual growth rate of an investment over a specified period longer than one year.


   Example of NAV Calculation  

Assume that a mutual fund has $100 million worth of total investments in different securities, which is calculated based on the day's closing prices for each asset.



It also has $7 million of cash and cash equivalents on hand, as well as $4 million in total receivables. Accrued income for the day is $75,000. The fund has $13 million in short-term liabilities and $2 million in long-term liabilities.



Accrued expenses for the day are $10,000. The fund has 5 million shares outstanding. Using the above formula, the NAV is calculated as:



NAV = [($100,000,000 + $7,000,000 + $4,000,000 + $75,000) - ($13,000,000 + $2,000,000 + $10,000)] / 5,000,000 = ($111,075,000 - $15,010,000) / 5,000,000 = $19.21



For the given day, the mutual fund shares will be traded at $19.21 per share.




What Is NAVPS?
The net asset value per share (NAVPS) of a fund is reported with its price quote with a broker or online financial portal. This value differs slightly from the fund's actual market price since NAVPS is calculated once per day, while the assets held by a fund may change in price throughout the day.




What Are the Trading Timelines for NAV?
While NAV is computed and reported as of a particular business date, all of the buys and sell orders for mutual funds are processed based on the cutoff time at the NAV of the trade date. If regulators mandate a cutoff time of 1:30 p.m., then buy and sell orders received before 1:30 p.m. will be executed at the NAV of that particular date. Any orders received after the cutoff time will be processed based on the NAV of the next business day.




What Is the Difference Between NAV and Shareholder Equity?
Equity is calculated by including intangible assets, which can include items like patents, while NAV is calculated using only tangible assets.


   The Bottom Line  

Net Asset Value is the net value of an investment fund's assets less its liabilities, divided by the number of shares outstanding. Funds can be open or closed and the pricing of each share is based on NAV. The price of each fund share is reflected as the NAVPS or per-share value.
What Is Net Asset Value Per Share – NAVPS?  

Net asset value per share (NAVPS) is an expression for net asset value that represents the value per share of a mutual fund, an exchange-traded fund (ETF), or a closed-end fund. It is calculated by dividing the total net asset value of the fund or company by the number of shares outstanding. It is also known as book value per share.





Key Takeaways

NAVPS represents the value per share of a mutual fund, ETF, or closed-end fund. It is often used in relation to open-end mutual funds since shares are redeemed at their NAV.Market price and NAVPS, however, may vary for closed-end funds and ETFs.


   How To Calculate Net Asset Value Per Share – NAVPS  

Net asset value per share (NAVPS) is calculated by dividing the net asset value by the number of shares outstanding.



The formula to calculate NAVPS is:


















Net Asset Value Per Share


=



NAV


Shares Outstanding

















where:
















NAV


=


Assets


−


Liabilities







\begin{aligned} &\text{Net Asset Value Per Share} = \frac{ \text{NAV} }{ \text{Shares Outstanding} }\\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{NAV} = \text{Assets} - \text{Liabilities} \\ \end{aligned}


​Net Asset Value Per Share=Shares OutstandingNAV​where:NAV=Assets−Liabilities​


   How NAVPS Is Used  

The net asset value per share (NAVPS) is often used in relation to open-end or mutual funds since shares of such funds registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are redeemed at their net asset value.



Referring to the formula for net asset value per share (NAVPS) above, assets include the total market value of the fund's investments, cash and cash equivalents, receivables, and accrued income. Liabilities equal total short-term and long-term liabilities, plus all accrued expenses, such as staff salaries, utilities, and other operational expenses. The total number of expenses may be substantial because management expenses, distribution and marketing expenses, transfer agent fees, custodian, and audit fees may all be included.


   Example of How To Use Net Asset Value Per Share – NAVPS  

Consider a mutual fund with 7.5 million shares outstanding that has $500 million in investments, $15 million in cash, $1.5 million in receivables, and $250,000 in accrued income. As for liabilities, the fund has $20 million in short-term liabilities and $5 million in long-term liabilities. The fund has $35,000 of accrued operational expenses and $15,000 of other accrued expenses. The assets, liabilities and NAVPS are calculated as:












Assets


=









 


$


500


,


000


,


000


+


$


15


,


000


,


000


+


$


1


,


500


,


000










Assets =









+


 


$


250


,


000


=


$


516


,


750


,


000










Liabilities


=









 


$


20


,


000


,


000


+


$


5


,


000


,


000


+


$


35


,


000










Liabilities


=









+


 


$


15


,


000


=


$


25


,


050


,


000










NAVPS


=









 




$


516


,


750


,


000


−


$


25


,


050


,


000




7


,


500


,


000











=








 




$


491


,


700


,


000




7


,


500


,


000




=


$


65.56







\begin{aligned} \text{Assets} =& \ \$500,000,000 + \$15,000,000 + \$1,500,000 \\ \phantom{\text{Assets =}} &+ \ \$250,000 = \$516,750,000 \\ \text{Liabilities} =& \ \$20,000,000 + \$5,000,000 + \$35,000 \\ \phantom{\text{Liabilities} =} &+ \ \$15,000 = \$25,050,000 \\ \text{NAVPS} =& \ \frac{ \$516,750,000 - \$25,050,000 }{ 7,500,000 } \\ =& \ \frac{ \$491,700,000 }{ 7,500,000 } = \$65.56 \\ \end{aligned}


Assets=Assets =Liabilities=Liabilities=NAVPS==​ $500,000,000+$15,000,000+$1,500,000+ $250,000=$516,750,000 $20,000,000+$5,000,000+$35,000+ $15,000=$25,050,000 7,500,000$516,750,000−$25,050,000​ 7,500,000$491,700,000​=$65.56​



For mutual funds and ETFs, the NAVPS is often readily available on sites like Morningstar.



As noted below, the market price and NAVPS of ETFs may differ. For example, the market price of the SPDR S&P 500 ETF is $402.63 as of Aug. 29, 2022, while its NAVPS is recorded as $405.24 on Morningstar.


   The Difference Between NAVPS and Market Price  

For a mutual fund, the NAVPS is the price at which shares are bought and sold at the end of each trading day. Exchange-traded funds (ETFs)s and closed-end funds are different in that they trade as stocks throughout the trading day. Because these types of funds are subject to market forces, their NAVPS at any given time may diverge from the actual buying and selling prices of the funds.



The NAVPS values of ETFs and closed-end funds are calculated at the end of the trading day for reporting purposes but are updated many times per minute in real time throughout the trading day.


   Limitations of Using Net Asset Value Per Share – NAVPS  

In the context of corporate financial statements of publicly traded companies, the NAVPS or book value per share is usually below the market price per share. The historical cost accounting principle—which tends to understate certain asset values—and the supply and demand forces of the marketplace generally push stock prices above book value per share valuations.


   Learn More About Net Asset Value Per Share – NAVPS  

For related insight, read more about the difference between an ETF’s NAVPS and market price.




Should I Invest in a Mutual Fund With a High NAVPS?
Some investors may incorrectly believe that a high NAVPS means it is too expensive and will provide a poor return on investment. However, mutual funds with both high and low NAVPS can perform well because the NAVPS is not an indicator of the performance of the fund.The NAVPS is simply the dollar amount per unit. If you have $20,000 to invest, you could receive 200 units of a mutual fund with a NAVPS of $100 or 100 units of a mutual fund with a NAVPS of $200.




How Often Is NAVPS Calculated?
The NAVPS values of mutual funds are updated once a day after the U.S. stock market closes. Closed-end funds do not have to update their NAVPS daily.




What Time Is NAVPS Declared?
The NAVPS values of mutual funds are declared daily after the close of the U.S. stock market at 4 p.m. Eastern Standard Time (EST). There is no set deadline when a mutual fund must update and submit its NAVPS to regulatory agencies. Typically, the NAVPS is declared between 4 p.m. and 6 p.m. EST. For more on this topic, read When Do Mutual Funds Update Their Prices?


   The Bottom Line  

Also known as book value per share, the net asset value per share (NAVS) is the value per share of a mutual fund, ETF, or closed-end fund. It is declared once a day after the close of the U.S. stock market, though the actual market price per share of a particular fund may be higher than its NAVS. During the trading day the actual NAVS value of a particular fund may be updated many times per minute.
What Is Net Cash?  

Net cash is a figure that is reported on a company's financial statements. It is calculated by subtracting a company's total liabilities from its total cash. The net cash figure is commonly used when evaluating a company's cash flows. Net cash may also refer to the amount of cash remaining after a transaction has been completed and all associated charges and deductions have been subtracted.





Key Takeaways

Net cash, a figure that is reported on a company's financial statements, is calculated by subtracting a company's total liabilities from its total cash.The net cash figure is commonly used when evaluating a company's cash flows.Net cash may also refer to the amount of cash remaining after a transaction has been completed and all associated charges and deductions have been subtracted.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding Net Cash  

Similar to the current ratio, net cash is a measure of a company's liquidity—or its ability to quickly meet its financial obligations. A company's financial obligations can include standard operating costs, payments on debts, or investment activities.



In order to calculate net cash, you must first add up all cash (not credit) receipts for a period. This amount is often referred to as "gross cash." Once totaled, cash outflows paid out for obligations and liabilities are deducted from gross cash; the difference is net cash.



When net cash is used in relation to stock investing, it sometimes refers to an abbreviated version of the term "net cash per share." Investors can use net cash to help determine whether a company's stock is an attractive investment.


   Net Cash vs. Net Cash Flow  

Net cash flow refers to either the gain or loss of funds over a period (after all debts have been paid). When a business has a surplus of cash after paying all its operating costs, it is said to have a positive cash flow. If the company is paying more for obligations and liabilities than what it earns through operations, it is said to have a negative cash flow.



A negative cash flow does not mean a company is unable to pay all of its obligations; it just means that the amount of cash received for that period was insufficient to cover its obligations for that same time period. If other savings vehicles are liquidated to meet the obligation—or additional debt is accrued that does not involve the receipt of a lump sum deposit—a company can meet all of its obligations while maintaining a negative cash flow.



Analyzing what activities contribute to positive or negative net cash is essential when using net cash as a barometer for determining the financial health of a company. Positive net cash from events such as increased profits from sales, or reduced obligations, can be indicative of a well-functioning, healthy firm. However, certain activities may result in a positive cash flow that may not reflect positively on a company’s financial health, such as money received as a result of incurring a new debt or activities associated with a lump-sum loan deposit.
What is Net Change?  

Net change is the difference between a prior trading period’s closing price and the current trading period’s closing price for a given security. For stock prices, net change is most commonly referring to a daily time frame, so the net change can be positive or negative for the given day in question. Though the net change for stocks and most securities is quoted in U.S. Dollars when reported by financial media, the net change can be calculated and quoted in any denomination depending on what is being traded.





Key Takeaways

Net change is the difference between closing prices from one day to the next.Net change is the most commonly reported data from securities quotes.Net change forms the basis of most line charts in technical analysis.


   Understanding Net Change  

Technical analysts use net change to chart and analyze stock prices over time in line charts. For example, a stock might close at $10.00 the prior session and $10.25 in the current session, which translates to a net change of $0.25 per share. Many investors also look at the net change in the context of a percentage change to see how significant the movement is relative to the price.



In most charting platforms net change is automatically adjusted to reflect the impact of dividend distributions or stock splits. For example, a stock that trades at $60.00 has a 2-for-1 stock split the next day and closes at $30.00; the next session will have a $0.00 net change. This makes the charts more usable for gauging the changes in value over time, but can create some distortions when looking back at the historical data. For example, a particular security may not have actually ever traded below $5 per share, but adjusted historical charts may show the price down that low.



There are some instances, however, when electronic information or historical data may not be updated after being inaccurately reported, so it’s important for investors to double-check that the net change is correct when doing research on historical prices.


   Reading Stock Quotes  

Many stock market apps and newspapers publish watch lists and stock tables that include the company name, ticker symbol, volume, high, low, close, and net changes for the previous session. Additional information, such as the 52-week high, 52-week low, dividend yield, yield percentage and price-earnings ratio may also be included. Because quotes get retrieved from multiple exchanges, stock data may differ slightly.



Technical analysts use electronic stock quotes rather than delayed stock market apps and newspapers since they provide real-time information. In these cases, the net change is typically displayed next to the current price along with the percentage change. For example, an electronic quote may look something like “163.65 -0.45 (-27%)." The first number is the last trading price, the second number is the net change, and the third number is the percentage change.


   Point-and-Figure Charts  

Most stock charts plot a security's closing price over time and optimize around a daily time frame. However one form of charting, known as Point-and-Figure, focuses entirely on the aspect of net change without respect to current price, time, volume or any other factor. Point and figure charts represent filtered price movements rather than the actual price of a security to show trends.



Point and figure charts contain rising columns of Xs and falling columns of Os that represent a net uptrend or a net downtrend, regardless of the price fluctuation in between the start and end points of these trends. Since they’re based on price change rather than time, these charts are ideal for detecting directional patterns and trends in a condensed format rather than looking over a much longer period of time. This focus on net change, proponents insist, creates the opportunity to create price targets that detail where the trend might lead.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



Some other technical indicators also make use of net change in calculating trend strength and other factors that help traders identify potential trading opportunities.
What Is a Net Charge-Off (NCO)?  

A net charge-off (NCO) is the dollar amount representing the difference between gross charge-offs and any subsequent recoveries of delinquent debt. Net charge-offs refer to the debt owed to a company that is unlikely to be recovered by that company.



This "bad debt" often written off and classified as gross charge-offs. If, at a later date, some money is recovered on the debt, the amount is subtracted from the gross charge-offs to compute the net charge-off value.





Key Takeaways

A net charge-off (NCO) is the amount representing the difference between gross charge-offs and recoveries of delinquent debt.Net charge-offs are the debt owed to a company unlikely to be recovered by that company. The Federal Reserve Bank tracks aggregate net charge-off ratios for banks in the U.S.—the ratio is defined as net charge-offs divided by average total loans during a period.


   Understanding Net Charge-Offs (NCOs)  

It is highly unlikely that a lender will experience 100% collection on all of its loans outstanding. As a routine matter, a creditor will establish a loan loss provision, an estimate of the amount that it thinks (based on historical data) will not be repaid, and then charge off the amounts that it determines will not come back.



Most often it is the case that loss provisions are in the ballpark of actual gross charge-offs, but eventual recoveries can occur, which when netted against gross charge-offs produce a net charge-off figure. A lender will reduce the loan loss provision by the amount of net charge-off during an accounting period and then refill the provision. The loan loss provision appears on the income statement as an expense and therefore will lower operating profits.



The Federal Reserve Bank tracks aggregate net charge-off ratios for banks in the U.S. The ratio is defined as net charge-offs divided by average total loans during a period. There is also a breakdown among the categories of real estate (residential, commercial, farmland), consumer, leases, commercial and industrial (C&I), and agricultural loans. The seasonally adjusted net charge-offs to Total Loans for Banks ratio during the first quarter of 2022 was 0.21%.


   Company Example of a Net Charge-Off  

Capital One Financial Corp. reported that total net charge-offs in 2019 as a percent of average loans outstanding was 2.53%, compared to 2.52% in 2018, or an increase of 1 basis point. As per accounting rules, the bank applied the net charge-off amount to the loan loss provision. NCO amounts shed important information to investors about the credit standards of lenders and may also provide signals about general economic conditions.
What Is Net Current Asset Value Per Share?  

Net current asset value per share (NCAVPS) is a measure created by Benjamin Graham as one means of gauging the attractiveness of a stock. A key metric for value investors, NCAVPS is calculated by taking a company's current assets and subtracting total liabilities.



Graham considered preferred stock to be a liability, so these are also subtracted. This is then divided by the number of shares outstanding. NCAV is similar to working capital, but instead of subtracting current liabilities from current assets, total liabilities and preferred stock are subtracted.



The formula for NCAVPS is:



NCAVPS = Current Assets - (Total Liabilities + Preferred Stock) ÷ Shares Outstanding





Key Takeaways

Benjamin Graham created net current asset value per share (NCAVPS), a measure that helps investors evaluate a stock as a potential investment.NCAVPS is a key metric for value investors and is arrived at by subtracting a company's total liabilities (including preferred stock) from its current assets and dividing the total by the shares outstanding.By comparing the NCAVPS with the share price, Graham believed investors could find undervalued stocks at a bargain price.


   Understanding Net Current Asset Value Per Share (NCAVPS)  

Examining industrial companies, Graham noted that investors typically ignore asset values and focus instead on earnings. But Graham believed that by comparing the net current asset value per share (NCAVPS) with the share price, investors could find bargains.



Essentially, net current asset value is a company's liquidation value. A company's liquidation value is the total worth of all its physical assets, such as fixtures, equipment, inventory, and real estate. It excludes intangible assets, such as intellectual property, brand recognition, and goodwill. If a company were to go out of business and sell all its physical assets, the value of these assets would be the company's liquidation value.



So a stock that is trading below NCAVPS is allowing an investor to buy a company at less than the value of its current assets. And as long as the company has reasonable prospects, investors are likely to receive substantially more than they pay for.


   Special Considerations  

In addition to NCAVPS, Graham recommended other value investing strategies for identifying undervalued stocks. One such strategy, defensive stock investing, means the investor will purchase stocks that provide stable earnings and dividends regardless of what is going on in the overall stock market and economy.



These "defensive stocks" are especially appealing because they protect the investor during times of recession, giving the investor a cushion to weather downturns in the markets. Examples of defensive stocks can often be found in the consumer staples, utilities, and healthcare sectors. These stocks tend to do better during a recession because they are non-cyclical, meaning they are not highly correlated with the business and economic cycles.


   The Bottom Line  

According to Graham, investors will benefit greatly if they invest in companies where the stock prices are no more than 67% of their NCAV per share.



However, Graham made it clear that not all stocks chosen using the NCAVPS formula would have strong returns, and that investors should also diversify their holdings when using this strategy. Graham recommended holding at least 30 stocks.
What Is Net Debt?  

Net debt is a liquidity metric used to determine how well a company can pay all of its debts if they were due immediately. Net debt shows how much debt a company has on its balance sheet compared to its liquid assets.



Net debt shows how much cash would remain if all debts were paid off and if a company has enough liquidity to meet its debt obligations.





Key Takeaways

Net debt is a liquidity metric used to determine how well a company can pay all of its debts if they were due immediately.Net debt shows how much cash would remain if all debts were paid off and if a company has enough liquidity to meet its debt obligations.Net debt is calculated by subtracting a company's total cash and cash equivalents from its total short-term and long-term debt.












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   Net Debt Formula and Calculation  

To determine the financial stability of a business, analyst and investors will look at the net debt using the following formula and calculation.



﻿















Net Debt


=


STD


+


LTD


−


CCE
















where:





















STD


=









 Debt that is due in 12 months or less
















 and can include short-term bank
















 loans, accounts payable, and lease


























LTD


=









 Long-term debt is debt that with a
















 maturity date longer than one year
















 and include bonds, lease payments,


























CCE


=









 Cash and liquid instruments that can be





















Cash equivalents are liquid investments with a
















maturity of 90 days or less and include
















certificates of deposit, Treasury bills, and








\begin{aligned} &\text{Net Debt} = \text{STD} + \text{LTD} - \text{CCE}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\begin{aligned} \text{STD} = &\text{ Debt that is due in 12 months or less}\\ &\text{ and can include short-term bank}\\ &\text{ loans, accounts payable, and lease}\\ &\text{ payments}\end{aligned}\\ &\begin{aligned} \text{LTD} = &\text{ Long-term debt is debt that with a}\\ &\text{ maturity date longer than one year}\\ &\text{ and include bonds, lease payments,}\\ &\text{ term loans, small and notes payable}\end{aligned}\\ &\begin{aligned} \text{CCE} = &\text{ Cash and liquid instruments that can be}\\ &\text{ easily converted to cash.}\end{aligned}\\ &\text{Cash equivalents are liquid investments with a}\\ &\text{maturity of 90 days or less and include}\\ &\text{certificates of deposit, Treasury bills, and}\\ &\text{commercial paper} \end{aligned}


​Net Debt=STD+LTD−CCEwhere:STD=​ Debt that is due in 12 months or less and can include short-term bank loans, accounts payable, and lease​LTD=​ Long-term debt is debt that with a maturity date longer than one year and include bonds, lease payments,​CCE=​ Cash and liquid instruments that can be​Cash equivalents are liquid investments with amaturity of 90 days or less and includecertificates of deposit, Treasury bills, and​﻿



Total up all short-debt amounts listed on the balance sheet.Total all long-term debt listed and add the figure to the total short-term debt.Total all cash and cash equivalents and subtract the result from the total of short-term and long-term debt.


   What Net Debt Indicates  

The net debt figure is used as an indication of a business's ability to pay off all of its debts if they became due simultaneously on the date of calculation, using only its available cash and highly liquid assets called cash equivalents.



Net debt helps to determine whether a company is overleveraged or has too much debt given its liquid assets. A negative net debt implies that the company possesses more cash and cash equivalents than its financial obligations and is hence more financially stable.



A negative net debt means a company has little debt and more cash, while a company with a positive net debt means it has more debt on its balance sheet than liquid assets. However, since it's common for companies to have more debt than cash, investors must compare the net debt of a company with other companies in the same industry.


  Net Debt and Total Debt  

Net debt is in part, calculated by determining the company's total debt. Total debt includes long-term liabilities, such as mortgages and other loans that do not mature for several years, as well as short-term obligations, including loan payments, credit cards, and accounts payable balances.


  Net Debt and Total Cash  

The net debt calculation also requires figuring out a company's total cash. Unlike the debt figure, the total cash includes cash and highly liquid assets. Cash and cash equivalents would include items such as checking and savings account balances, stocks, and some marketable securities. However, it's important to note that many companies may not include marketable securities as cash equivalents since it depends on the investment vehicle and whether it's liquid enough to be converted within 90 days.


   Comprehensive Debt Analysis  

While the net debt figure is a great place to start, a prudent investor must also investigate the company's debt level in more detail. Important factors to consider are the actual debt figures—both short-term and long-term—and what percentage of the total debt needs to be paid off within the coming year.



Debt management is important for companies because if managed properly they should have access to additional funding if needed. For many companies, taking on new debt financing is vital to their long-growth strategy since the proceeds might be used to fund an expansion project, or to repay or refinance older or more expensive debt.



A company might be in financial distress if it has too much debt, but also the maturity of the debt is important to monitor. If the majority of the company's debts are short term, meaning the obligations must be repaid within 12 months, the company must generate enough revenue and have enough liquid assets to cover the upcoming debt maturities. Investors should consider whether the business could afford to cover its short-term debts if the company's sales decreased significantly.



On the other hand, if the company's current revenue stream is only keeping up with paying its short-term debts and isn't able to adequately pay down long-term debt, it's only a matter of time before the company will face hardship or will need an injection of cash or financing. Since companies use debt differently and in many forms, it's best to compare a company's net debt to other companies within the same industry and of comparable size.


   Example of Net Debt  

Company A has the following financial information listed on its balance sheet. Companies will typically break down whether the debt is short-term or long-term.



Accounts payable: $100,000Credit Line: $50,000Term Loan: $200,000Cash: $30,000Cash equivalents: $20,000



To calculate net debt, we must first total all debt and total all cash and cash equivalents. Next, we subtract the total cash or liquid assets from the total debt amount.



Total debt would be calculated by adding the debt amounts or $100,000 + $50,000 + $200,000 = $350,000.Cash and cash equivalents are totaled or $30,000 + $20,000 and equal $50,000 for the period.Net debt is calculated by $350,000 - $50,000 equaling $300,000 in net debt.


   Net Debt vs. Debt-to-Equity  

The debt-to-equity (D/E) ratio is a leverage ratio, which shows how much of a company's financing or capital structure is made up of debt versus issuing shares of equity. The debt-to-equity ratio is calculated by dividing a company’s total liabilities by its shareholders' equity and is used to determine if a company is using too much or too little debt or equity to finance its growth.



Net debt takes it to another level by measuring how much total debt is on the balance sheet after factoring in cash and cash equivalents. Net debt is a liquidity metric while debt-to-equity is a leverage ratio.


   Limitations of Using Net Debt  

Although it's typically perceived that companies with negative net debt are better able to withstand economic downtrends and deteriorating macroeconomic conditions, too little debt might be a warning sign. If a company is not investing in its long-term growth as a result of the lack of debt, it might struggle against competitors that are investing in its long-term growth.



For example, oil and gas companies are capital intensive meaning they must invest in large fixed assets, which include property, plant, and equipment. As a result, companies in the industry typically have significant portions of long-term debt to finance their oil rigs and drilling equipment.



An oil company should have a positive net debt figure, but investors must compare the company's net debt with other oil companies in the same industry. It doesn't make sense to compare the net debt of an oil and gas company with the net debt of a consulting company with few if any fixed assets. As a result, net debt is not a good financial metric when comparing companies of different industries since the companies might have vastly different borrowing needs and capital structures.




Which Is More Important: Net Debt or Gross Debt?
Gross debt is the nominal value of all of the debts and similar obligations a company has on its balance sheet. If the difference between net debt and gross debt is large, it indicates a large cash balance along with significant debt, which could be a red flag.  Net debt removes cash and cash equivalents from the amount of debt, which is useful when calculating enterprise value (EV) or when a company seeks to make an acquisition. This is because a company is not interested in spending cash to acquire cash. Rather, the net debt will give a better estimate of the takeover value.




How Do You Calculate Net Debt in Excel?
To calculate net debt using Microsoft Excel, find the following information on the company's balance sheet: total short-term liabilities; total long-term liabilities; and total current assets. Enter these three items into cells A1 through A3, respectively. In cell A4, enter the formula "=A1+A2−A3" to compute net debt.




What Is Net Debt Per Capita?
Net debt per capita is a country-level metric that looks at a nation's total sovereign debt and divides it by the population size. It is used to understand how much debt a country has in proportion to its population allowing for between-country comparisons in understanding a country's relative solvency.
What Is Net Debt Per Capita?  

Net debt per capita is a measurement of the value of a government's debt expressed in terms of the amount attributable to each citizen under the government's jurisdiction.





Key Takeaways

Net debt per capita is simply a country or other jurisdiction's total debt divided by the population living there.Net debt per capita can give an indication of how leveraged the government in question is.Net debt per capita is often used to make a political statement about current fiscal policy rather than as a true economic indicator. 


   Understanding Net Debt Per Capita  

In simple terms, the net debt per capita is how much debt a government has per citizen. This is often calculated at the national level, but it also applies at the state and even municipal government levels. The level of net debt per capita can be an important factor to consider when analyzing a government's ability to continue to pay its debt service costs through its current levels of tax revenue. In other words, net debt per capita can be used to help evaluate the default risk of government bonds and give an indication of overall economic health.



Net debt per capita is a relatively simple calculation to perform. The formula is:



Net Debt Per Capita = (Short-Term Debt + Long-Term Debt – Cash & Cash Equivalents)/Population



For example, if a country with a population of 300 million people has a total debt of $950 billion and cash of $20 billion, its net debt per capita is:



Net Debt Per Capita = ($950 Billion – $20 Billion)/300 Million = $3,100



Technically, this means that each taxpayer would owe the country $3,100 if the country were to pay off its national debt. This is assuming, of course, that every citizen became liable for the outstanding debt of the country, which doesn't happen in practice. In this sense, net debt per capita is simply an indicator by which to measure a country rather than an actual approximation of real individual liability. More importantly, net debt per capita figures can usually be obtained without having to gather the inputs and do the calculations, as many public sources and economic think tanks publish these figures.


   Significance of Net Debt Per Capita  

Net debt per capita is more commonly used for political statements than it is as an economic indicator in and of itself. Expressing the national debt in terms of a citizen's share makes a figure that is often too large to comprehend as a whole much more real to people. In a sense, the liability of every taxpayer, present, and future, rises as the national debt grows.



As of March 2022, for example, the net debt per capita of the United States is $91,350, an increase of 7.78% per inhabitant from the previous year. Other countries with high net debt per capita include Japan, Ireland, Italy, Belgium, Austria, France, Greece, the United Kingdom, and Portugal.



Again, these figures are generally used in domestic politics to push for some change in fiscal policy. That said, net debt per capita may be plotted against per capita GDP to compare several regions around the world to determine the most promising areas to invest in internationally. However, the debt to GDP ratio is more commonly used for this purpose as it simplifies two data sets into a single plotted line for each country. This makes visualization and comparison much easier.
What Is the Net Debt-to-EBITDA Ratio?  

The net debt-to-EBITDA (earnings before interest depreciation and amortization) ratio is a measurement of leverage, calculated as a company's interest-bearing liabilities minus cash or cash equivalents, divided by its EBITDA. The net debt-to-EBITDA ratio is a debt ratio that shows how many years it would take for a company to pay back its debt if net debt and EBITDA are held constant. However, if a company has more cash than debt, the ratio can be negative. It is similar to the debt/EBITDA ratio, but net debt subtracts cash and cash equivalents while the standard ratio does not.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   ﻿The Formula for Net Debt-to-EBITDA Is  

﻿




N


e


t


 


D


e


b


t


 


t


o


 


E


B


I


T


D


A


=




T


o


t


a


l


 


D


e


b


t


−


C


a


s


h


&


E


q


u


i


v


a


l


e


n


t


s




E


B


I


T


D


A





Net \ Debt \ to \ EBITDA = \frac{Total \ Debt - Cash \& Equivalents}{EBITDA}


Net Debt to EBITDA=EBITDATotal Debt−Cash&Equivalents​﻿





Key Takeaways

The net debt-to-EBITDA ratio is a debt ratio that shows how many years it would take for a company to pay back its debt if net debt and EBITDA are held constant.When analysts look at the net debt-to-EBITDA ratio, they want to know how well a company can cover its debts.It is similar to the debt/EBITDA ratio, but net debt subtracts cash and cash equivalents while the standard ratio does not.If a company has more cash than debt, the ratio can be negative. 


   What Net Debt-to-EBITDA Can Tell You  

The net debt-to-EBITDA ratio is popular with analysts because it takes into account a company's ability to decrease its debt. Ratios higher than 4 or 5 typically set off alarm bells because this indicates that a company is less likely to be able to handle its debt burden, and thus is less likely to be able to take on the additional debt required to grow the business.



The net debt-to-EBITDA ratio should be compared with that of a benchmark or the industry average to determine the creditworthiness of a company. Additionally, a horizontal analysis could be conducted to determine whether a company has increased or decreased its debt burden over a specified period. For horizontal analysis, ratios or items in the financial statement are compared with those of previous periods to determine how the company has grown over the specified time frame.


   Example of How to Use Net Debt-to-EBITDA  

Suppose an investor wishes to conduct horizontal analysis on Company ABC to determine its ability to pay off its debt. For its previous fiscal year, Company ABC's short-term debt was $6.31 billion, long-term debt was $28.99 billion, and cash holdings were $13.84 billion.



Therefore, Company ABC reported a net debt of $21.46 billion, or $6.31 billion-plus $28.99 billion less $13.84 billion, and an EBITDA of $60.60 billion during the fiscal period. Consequently, Company ABC's net debt-to-EBITDA ratio is 0.35 or $21.46 billion divided by $60.60 billion.



Now, for the most recent fiscal year, Company ABC had short-term debt of $8.50 billion, long-term debt of $53.46 billion, and $21.12 billion in cash. The company's net debt increased by 90.31% to $40.84 billion year-over-year. Company ABC reported an EBITDA of $77.89 billion, a 28.53% increase from its EBITDA the previous year.



Therefore, Company ABC had a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 0.52 or $40.84 billion divided by $77.89 billion. Company ABC's net debt to EBITDA ratio increased by 0.17, or 49.81% year-over-year.


   Limitations of Using Net Debt-to-EBITDA  

Analysts like the net debt/EBITDA ratio because it is easy to calculate. Debt figures can be found on the balance sheet and EBITDA can be calculated from the income statement. The issue, however, is that it may not provide the most accurate measure of earnings. More than earnings, analysts want to gauge the amount of cash available for debt repayment.



Depreciation and amortization are non-cash expenses that do not really impact cash flows, but interest can be a significant expense for some companies. Banks and investors looking at the current debt/EBITDA ratio to gain insight on how well the company can pay for its debt may want to consider the impact of interest on the debt, even if that debt will be included in new issuance. In this way, net income minus capital expenditures, plus depreciation and amortization may be the better measure of cash available for debt repayment.
What Is Net Domestic Product (NDP)?  

Net domestic product (NDP) is an annual measure of the economic output of a nation that is calculated by subtracting depreciation from gross domestic product (GDP).





Key Takeaways

Net domestic product (NDP) is an annual measure of the economic output of a nation that is adjusted to account for depreciation.It is calculated by subtracting depreciation from the gross domestic product (GDP).NDP, along with GDP, gross national income (GNI), disposable income, and personal income, is one of the key gauges of economic growth that is reported on a quarterly basis by the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA).An increase in NDP would indicate growing economic health, while a decrease would indicate economic stagnation. 


   How Net Domestic Product (NDP) Works  

NDP accounts for capital that has been consumed over the year in the form of housing, vehicle, or machinery deterioration. The depreciation accounted for is often referred to as capital consumption allowance and represents the amount needed to replace those depreciated assets.








N


D


P


=


G


D


P


−


D


e


p


r


e


c


i


a


t


i


o


n



NDP = GDP - Depreciation


NDP=GDP−Depreciation



The frequency and scope of such replacements can vary by type of capital assets. Machinery that is put to regular use may need parts replaced regularly until the entire piece of equipment is no longer usable. While that may take many years, barring unexpected damage or defects, there is a cycle of equipment failure and replacement. Part of the machinery in a factory’s production line may need to be replaced while another set of similar machines continues to function within the same factory. The acquisition of the replacement machinery would be factored into the depreciation aspect of the NPI.



This differs from an expansion of factory operations—for example, the opening of a new site, adding to the total number of factories. The acquisition of new machines for the new factory would represent a gain because the demand was driven by the need to increase the scope of the operations, rather than serve as a replacement. This would mean the purchased machine would qualify as a gain for the NDP.



The construction of new homes on previously unused real estate can also represent a gain for the NDP if the residences are not intended to replace defunct or demolished property. For example, in many urban areas, efforts may be made to re-purpose underutilized real estate that has fallen into disrepair. Instead of expanding the sprawl of the city, older buildings might be torn down and replaced by new construction intended to fill the same use as the predecessor building. Such an example would qualify as depreciation and replacement. By contrast, if a new housing community is developed, the construction of residences would be contributory to NDP.






An increase in NDP signifies a growing economy, while a decrease denotes economic stagnation.


   Special Considerations  

NDP, along with GDP, gross national income (GNI), disposable income, and personal income, is one of the key gauges of economic growth that is reported on a quarterly basis by the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA).



Though GDP is frequently cited when assessing the economic health of a country, NDP puts into perspective the pace at which capital assets degrade and must be replaced. This is important as failure to take action would result in a decrease in the country's GDP.
What Are Net Exports?  

Net exports are a measure of a nation's total trade. The formula for net exports is a simple one: The value of a nation's total export goods and services minus the value of all the goods and services it imports equals its net exports.



A nation that has positive net exports enjoys a trade surplus, while negative net exports indicate that the nation has a trade deficit. A nation's net exports are thus a component of its overall balance of trade.





Key Takeaways

A nation's net exports number is a straightforward calculation: The value of its total exports minus the value of its total imports equals its net exports.A positive net export number indicates a trade surplus, while a negative number means a trade deficit.A weak currency exchange rate makes a nation's exports more competitive in price in other countries.Countries with comparative advantages such as natural resources or a skilled workforce tend to be net exporters.Examples of net exporters are Australia and Saudi Arabia.


   Understanding Net Exports  

A country that enjoys net exports brings in more money from goods and services sold overseas than it spends on importing goods and services.



Exports include all the goods and other services a country sends to the rest of the world, including merchandise, freight, transportation, tourism, communication, and financial services.



Companies export products and services for a variety of reasons. Exports can increase sales and profits if the goods create new markets or expand existing ones. At best, they present an opportunity to capture significant global market share.



Companies that export also spread business risk by diversifying into multiple markets. Exporting into foreign markets also reduces per-unit costs by expanding operations to meet increased demand.



Finally, companies that export to foreign markets gain new knowledge and experience that may lead to the discovery of new technologies and marketing practices, and insights into foreign competitors.


  The Currency Factor  

If a nation's currency is weak in relation to other currencies, the goods available for export become more competitive in international markets as their prices are relatively less expensive to the retail customer. That encourages positive net exports.



If a country's currency is strong, its exports are more expensive. Consumers will pass them up for cheaper local products, which can lead to negative net exports.


   Formula and Calculation of Net Exports  

The formula for determining a nation's net export number is a simple one:



Net Exports = Value of total exports - Value of total imports



The details are more complicated. The U.S. Census Bureau, for example, tracks the nation's exports and imports of industrial supplies and materials; capital goods; consumer goods; food; automotives and automotive parts, and more.



It also tracks the numbers by trading partner. The U.S. has its biggest trade deficit, not surprisingly, with China, and that deficit increased by $31.6 billion in 2022, to $382.9 billion.





3.7%

The U.S. trade deficit as a percentage of GDP for 2022. That is a slight increase from 3.6% of GDP in 2021.


   Net Exporter vs. Net Importer  

Countries produce goods based on the resources and skilled labor capacity that they have available. When a country cannot produce a particular product efficiently but still wants or needs it, its businesses can buy it from other countries that produce and export it.



A net exporter is a country that sells more goods to foreign countries than it brings in from abroad. Saudi Arabia and Canada are examples of net exporting countries. Both have an abundance of oil, which they sell to businesses in other countries that need it. A net exporter, by definition, runs a current account surplus in aggregate.



A net importer, by contrast, is a country or territory whose value of imported goods and services is higher than its exported goods and services over a given period of time. By definition, a net importer runs a current account deficit. The United States is a net importer, purchasing many of its consumer products and raw materials from countries like China and India because those nations can produce them more cheaply.



A country may run either deficits or surpluses with individual countries or territories depending on the types of goods and services that it buys and sells, the competitiveness of these goods and services, current exchange rates, levels of government spending, and trade barriers.



A country can be a net exporter of some categories of goods while being a net importer of other products. For example, Japan is a net exporter of electronic devices, but it must import oil from other countries to meet its needs.






Some economists believe that running a consistent trade deficit harms a nation's economy by giving domestic producers an incentive to relocate overseas, creating pressure to devalue the nation's currency, and forcing its interest rates lower. Yet the United States has both the world's largest deficit and its largest gross domestic product (GDP). That suggests that running a trade deficit is not always detrimental.


   The World's Most Prolific Exporters  

According to World Bank data, the most prolific exporter by the percentage of gross domestic product (GDP) in 2021, for which the latest data is available, was Luxembourg at 211.4%. (If you don't recall buying any products made in Luxembourg lately, you should know that its main trading partners are Germany, France, and Belgium, and it exports many products including steel and machinery, diamonds, chemicals, and food).



Other leading export countries in recent years include:



Hong Kong at 203.5%Singapore at 184.8%Ireland at 134.4%Vietnam 93.3%United Arab Emirates (UAE) 95.9%



The countries that exported the least as a share of GDP in 2020 included Burundi at 5%, Sudan at 2.3%, Guam at 3%, and Nepal at 5.2%.


   Examples of Countries With Net Export Deficits and Surpluses  

To find examples of how nations calculate net exports, we first have to see the World Bank data on the imports side for the same year. For example, Ireland's imports came in at 95% as a percentage of GDP in 2021, while Luxembourg's imports totaled 176.7%. By subtracting those figures from the exports of these nations, we find that Ireland had net exports of 39.4% in 2019, while Luxembourg enjoyed net exports of 34.7%.



For 2021, the latest year in the World Bank's report, the U.S. had net exports totaling 10.9% of GDP while it had net imports of 14.6% of GDP. The U.S. had a trade deficit of -3.7% of GDP. (Separately, U.S. Census Bureau figures set the U.S. deficit at 3.7% in 2021 and 3.8% in 2022.)


   Factors Influencing Net Exports  

For a country to be a net exporter, it must have products or raw materials that overseas buyers desire and the capacity to deliver them at a cost that is low enough to entice foreign consumers to import them rather than buying a domestic alternative.



A country exports when it has a comparative advantage in a product or an ability to produce a particular product or service at a lower opportunity cost than its trading partners.


  Natural Advantages  

Some countries enjoy an absolute advantage in certain products, particularly in raw materials or natural resources. These will be in high demand as exports.



Saudi Arabia has a natural advantage in its oil reserves. The U.S. is rich in coal and timber, among other resources. China is rich in rare earth minerals.


  Currency Values  

A country's currency exchange rate also plays an important role. If a currency loses value relative to its potential trading partners, its companies can produce and sell those goods abroad relatively cheaply. The reverse is true if the nation's currency value rises.



Because of this, a country's government or central bank of an exporting country may employ monetary policy tools if the currency starts to rise in global markets.


  Trade Barriers  

A third important factor is the government's export tax policies. Trade barriers such as quotas, tariffs, and other taxes are designed to stifle international trade and encourage domestic production.



A trade barrier is any government regulation that is designed to protect domestic products from foreign competition or artificially stimulate exports of particular domestic products.



The most common foreign trade barriers are government policies that restrict, prevent, or impede the international exchange of goods and services. The greater the trade barriers, both at home and internationally, the harder it is to export.


   Net Exports and GDP  

The net exports number is a key component of a nation's GDP. It either adds to GDP, if it is a positive number, or decreases its GDP, if it is a negative number. A high GDP, or at least a GDP that is growing from year to year, is seen as an indicator of a nation's economic health. A negative net exports number detracts from that number.



That does not by any means end the debate over whether a trade deficit is a bad mark against a nation's economy.



One way to look at a trade deficit is to see it as an indication that a nation's citizens can consume more than they produce. They have the money to buy the goods and services that they cannot produce themselves.



On the other side, there is a political hazard ahead for nations running big deficits. The nation is sending its money abroad and leaving itself vulnerable to economic colonization.




What Is Meant by Net Exports?
Net exports are the total value of a nation's exported goods and services that exceeds the total of its imported goods and services.




How Do You Calculate Net Exports?
For a given period, net exports = total exports - total imports




What Are Examples of Nations That Have Net Exports?
Examples are many. Saudi Arabia, for instance, is a net exporter, largely because of its exports of crude oil. Australia is a net exporter, mostly because it is rich in metals and ore.




Why Are Net Exports Included in GDP?
Gross domestic product (GDP) is a measure of an economy's size that accounts for the value of all goods produced within a nation's borders over the course of a year. Products that are made or sourced domestically but sold in other countries make up one component of a nation's economy.




Is the U.S. a Net Exporter?
No, the U.S. is historically a net importer and runs a standing trade deficit.The data is tracked and reported on a monthly basis by the U.S. Census Bureau.Its report for all of 2022 indicates that the goods and services deficit increased $103 billion, or 12.2%, from the previous year. Exports increased by $453.1 billion, or 17.7%, while imports increased by $556.1 billion, or 16.3%. Overall, the U.S. trade deficit was $948.1 billion, up $103 billion from 2021.Overall, the U.S. had a trade deficit of 3.7% of GDP for 2022, up slightly from 3.6% in 2021.


   The Bottom Line  

The net exports number is a component of a nation's GDP. If a nation has a trade surplus, it adds to the GDP. If it has a trade deficit, this reduces GDP.



This number is also referred to as "the balance of trade." The term can be taken literally, as it suggests the health of the nation's economy as a whole. The nation produces and exports the goods and services that it can supply to the world on a competitive basis. It consumes some of the goods and services it produces and imports those it cannot produce. Some of both are critically important but the appropriate mix is harder to establish.
What Is Net Exposure?  

Net exposure is the difference between a hedge fund’s long positions and its short positions. Expressed as a percentage, this number is a measure of the extent to which a fund’s trading book is exposed to market fluctuations.



Net exposure can be contrasted with a fund's gross exposure, which does not offset long and short positions. Net exposure is therefore often a more accurate measure of a fund's amount-at-risk.





Key Takeaways

Net exposure is the difference between a hedge fund's short positions and long positions, expressed as a percentage.A lower level of net exposure decreases the risk of the fund’s portfolio being affected by market fluctuations.Net exposure should ideally be considered along with a fund's gross exposure.


   Understanding Net Exposure  

Net exposure reflects the difference between the two types of positions held in a hedge fund's portfolio. If 60% of a fund is long and 40% is short, for example, the fund's gross exposure is 100% (60% + 40%), and its net exposure is 20% (60% - 40%), assuming the fund uses no leverage (more on that below). The gross exposure refers to the absolute level of a fund's investments, or the sum of long positions and short positions.



A fund has a net long exposure if the percentage amount invested in long positions exceeds the percentage amount invested in short positions, and has a net short position if short positions exceed long positions. If the percentage invested in long positions equals the amount invested in short positions, the net exposure is zero.



A hedge fund manager will adjust the net exposure following their investment outlook—bullish, bearish, or neutral. Being net long reflects a bullish strategy; being net short, a bearish one. Net exposure of 0%, meanwhile, is a market neutral strategy.


   Gross Exposure vs. Net Exposure  

To say a fund has a net long exposure of 20%, as in our example above, could refer to any combination of long and short positions. As an example, consider:



30% long and 10% short equals 20% long60% long and 40% short equals 20% long80% long and 60% short equals 20% long



A low net exposure does not necessarily indicate a low level of risk since the fund may have a significant deal of leverage. For this reason, gross exposure (long exposure + short exposure) should also be considered.



Gross exposure indicates the percentage of the fund’s assets that have been deployed and whether leverage (borrowed funds) is being used. If gross exposure exceeds 100%, it means the fund is using leverage—or borrowing money to amplify returns.



The two measures together provide a better indication of a fund’s overall exposure. A fund with a net long exposure of 20% and a gross exposure of 100% is fully invested. Such a fund would have a lower level of risk than a fund with a net long exposure of 20% and a gross exposure of 180% since the latter has a substantial degree of leverage.


   Net Exposure and Risk  

While a lower level of net exposure does decrease the risk of the fund’s portfolio being affected by market fluctuations, this risk also depends on the sectors and markets that constitute the fund’s long and short positions. Ideally, a fund’s long positions should appreciate while its short positions should decline in value, thus enabling both the long and the short positions to be closed at a profit.



Even if both the long and short positions move up or down together—in the case of a broad market advance or decline, respectively—the fund may still make a profit on its overall portfolio, depending on the degree of its net exposure.



For example, a net short fund should do better in a down market because its short positions exceed the long ones. During a broad market decline, it is expected that the returns on the short positions will exceed the losses on the long positions. However, if the long positions decline in value while the short positions increase in value, the fund may find itself taking a loss, the magnitude of which will again depend on its net exposure.





Pros

Measures fund manager's expertise, performance
Indicates fund's vulnerability to volatility



Cons

Should be considered alongside gross exposure
May not reflect sector or other specific risks





   Example of Net Exposure  

Looking at how a fund's net exposure varies over the months or years and its impact on returns gives a good indication of the managers' commitment to and expertise on the short side and the fund's likely exposure to swings in the market.



The years 2020-2022 were extremely volatile, with large up and down stock market moves driven by COVID-19 and geopolitical events, making it a potentially tough period for some hedge funds. However, many contained the damage by reducing their net exposure in certain sectors, according to a Morgan Stanley survey. Gross exposures declined as well, reflecting a reduction in the use of leverage to boost returns, with quant traders cutting total equity exposure toward the lowest in a decade.



As a concrete example, say that an investor is long an index portfolio that tracks the S&P 500, with a gross exposure of $1 million. The investor then sells short $50,000 worth of Apple shares, anticipating an earnings miss, Apple is the largest component of the S&P 500 index, so that position reduces the net exposure since there is an existing long position implicit in the index portfolio.




What Is Net vs. Gross Exposure?
Gross exposure refers to the absolute level of a fund's investments, including both long and short positions. Net exposure accounts for offsetting positions between longs and shorts (e.g., hedges) that effectively cancel each other out.




What Is the Net Exposure of Market-Neutral Funds?
A market-neutral fund uses offsetting long and short positions to have a net exposure of close to zero. Instead, market-neutral funds seek to make money off of relative mispricings between trading pairs.




How Does Hedging Reduce Net Exposure?
A hedge is an offsetting position that reduces one's market risk. Suppose you own 1,000 shares of the SPY S&P 500 ETF from $425. You can buy 400-strike puts expiring in 6 months as a hedge, making the net exposure to the downside just a $25 loss during that period. If the SPY falls below $400, each dollar lost in the ETF shares would be offset by gains in the put options.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Are Net Foreign Assets (NFA)?  

Net foreign assets (NFA) determine whether a country is a creditor or debtor nation by measuring the difference in its external assets and liabilities. NFA refer to the value of overseas assets owned by a nation, minus the value of its domestic assets that are owned by foreigners, adjusted for changes in valuation and exchange rates.



A nation's NFA position is also defined as the cumulative change in its current account, which is the sum of the balance of trade, net income over time, and net current transfers over time.





Key Takeaways

Net foreign assets (NFA) determine whether a country is a creditor or debtor nation by measuring the difference in its external assets and liabilities.A nation's NFA position is also defined as the cumulative change in its current account, which is the sum of the balance of trade, net income over time, and net current transfers over time.The NFA metric can be impacted by valuation and exchange rate changes.


   Understanding Net Foreign Assets (NFA)  

The NFA position indicates whether the nation is a net creditor or debtor to the rest of the world. A positive NFA balance means that it is a net lender, while a negative NFA balance shows that it is a net borrower.



An alternative definition of “net foreign assets” from the World Bank is that it is the sum of foreign assets held by monetary authorities and deposit money banks, less their foreign liabilities.



Relating a nation’s NFA position to a cumulative change in its current account is conceptually easy to understand since an entity’s debt position at any point in time is the sum total of its past borrowing and lending activity. If an entity’s borrowings total $500, but it has loaned out $1,500, it is a net creditor in the amount of $1,000.



Likewise, if a nation runs a current account deficit of, say, $10 billion, it has to borrow that amount from foreign sources to finance the shortfall. In this case, borrowing $10 billion would increase its foreign liability and reduce its NFA position by that amount.


   Valuations and Exchange Rates Effect on Net Foreign Assets (NFA)  

In addition to the current account position, valuation and exchange rate changes should be taken into account to get a true picture of the NFA position. For example, foreign governments hold trillions of dollars in U.S. government bonds. If interest rates rise and U.S. government bonds decline in price, this would have the effect of reducing the overall value of these nation's U.S. government bond holdings, and their NFA, too.



Exchange rate fluctuations can also have a significant effect on the NFA position. Appreciation of a nation’s currency against that of other nations will decrease the value of both foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities, while depreciation will increase the value of these overseas assets and liabilities. Thus, if the nation is a net debtor, currency depreciation will increase its foreign currency debt burden.



The NFA position itself can drive changes in exchange rates since chronic current account deficits can prove unsustainable over time. Currencies of nations with a significantly negative NFA position and growing current account deficits can come under attack from currency speculators, who may seek to drive it lower.
What Is Net Foreign Factor Income (NFFI)?  

Net foreign factor income (NFFI) is the difference between a nation’s gross national product (GNP) and its gross domestic product (GDP).





Key Takeaways

Net foreign factor income (NFFI) is the difference between a nation’s gross national product (GNP) and gross domestic product (GDP).NFFI is generally not substantial in most nations since payments earned by citizens and those paid to foreigners more or less offset each other.NFFI may assume increasing importance in a globalized economy, as people and companies move across international borders more easily than they did in the past.


   Understanding Net Foreign Factor Income (NFFI)  

NFFI is the difference between the aggregate amount that a country’s citizens and companies earn abroad and the aggregate amount that foreign citizens and overseas companies earn in that country. In mathematical terms:


















N


F


F


I


 


=


 


G


N


P


 


−


 


G


D


P
















G


N


P


=


gross national product
















G


D


P


=


gross domestic product







\begin{aligned}&NFFI\ =\ GNP\ - \ GDP\\&GNP=\text{gross national product}\\&GDP=\text{gross domestic product}\end{aligned}


​NFFI = GNP − GDPGNP=gross national productGDP=gross domestic product​



The NFFI level is generally not substantial in most nations since payments earned by citizens and those paid to foreigners more or less offset each other. However, NFFI's impact may be significant in smaller nations with substantial foreign investment in relation to their economy and few assets overseas, since their GDP will be quite high compared to GNP.



GDP refers to all economic output that occurs domestically or within a nation’s boundaries, regardless of whether a local company or foreign entity owns production. GNP, on the other hand, measures the output from the citizens and companies of a particular nation, regardless of whether they are located within its boundaries or overseas. For example, if a Japanese company has a production facility in the U.S., its output will count toward U.S. GDP and Japan’s GNP.



GDP is the most widely accepted measure of economic output, having supplanted GNP around 1990. In making the switch, the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) said GDP provided a more straightforward comparison of other measures of economic activity in the United States and that it would be helpful to have a standard measure of economic output—most other countries at the time had already adopted GDP as their primary measure of production.


   Special Considerations  

Many economists have questioned how meaningful GNP or GDP is as a measure of a nation's economic well-being since they do not count most unpaid work while counting economic activity that is unproductive or destructive.



Several economists still criticize GDP, specifically for providing a somewhat misleading picture of an economy's true health and the well-being of its citizens. This is because GDP does not take into account the profits earned in a nation by overseas companies that are remitted back to foreign investors. If these remitted profits are very large compared with earnings from the nation’s overseas citizens and assets, the NFFI figure will be negative, and GNP will be significantly below GDP. 



NFFI may assume increasing importance in a globalized economy, as people and companies move across international borders more easily than they did in the past.
What Is a Net Importer?  

A net importer is a country that buys more from other countries in terms of global trade than it sells to them over a given period of time. Countries produce goods based on the resources available in their region. Whenever a country cannot produce a particular good but still wants it, that country can buy it as an import from other countries who produce and sell that good.



A net importer can be contrasted with a net exporter, which is a country that sells abroad more than they purchase.





Key Takeaways

A net importer is a country, which in aggregate, purchases more goods from foreign countries through trade than it sells abroad.A net importer, by definition, runs a current account deficit in the aggregate.The United States, a consumer colossus, has been a net importer for decades with an import deficit of $678.7 billion in 2020.


   Understanding Net Importer  

A net importer is a country or territory whose value of imported goods and services is higher than its exported goods and services over a given period of time. A net importer, by definition, runs a current account deficit in the aggregate. However, it may also run individual deficits or surpluses with particular countries or territories depending on the types of goods and services traded, the competitiveness of these goods and services, exchange rates, levels of government spending, trade barriers, etc.



In the U.S., the Commerce Department keeps monthly tallies on exports and imports in numerous table displays. According to their aggregate tally, some of the largest categories of goods that the U.S. currently imports are foods and beverages, oil, passenger cars, vehicle parts and accessories, pharmaceuticals, cell phones, and computers. It is important to note that a country can be a net importer in a certain area while being a net exporter in other areas. For example, Japan is a net exporter of electronic devices, but it must import oil from other countries to meet its needs.


   Example: The United States as a Net Importer  

The United States, a consumer colossus, has been a net importer for decades. Even though this country excels in a number of leading export goods and services—passenger planes, factory equipment, luxury automobiles, soybeans, movies (Hollywood), and banking services, to name a few—Americans love to buy things, and countries around the world are happy to feed the beast. Being a net importer is not necessarily a bad thing, but running a chronic and growing trade deficit over time creates a host of issues.



In 2020, the imports exceeded exports by $678.7 billion. Exports totaled $2,131.9 billion while imports totaled $2,810.6 billion. The major problem with these substantial trade deficits is that they must be financed to maintain the balance of payments account. The principal means of financing the current account deficit is borrowing from other countries. Continuous sales of Treasury bonds to major trading partners from which the U.S. is a net importer has created a measure of dependency on these creditors, which, some say, has the potential to lead to political or economic danger down the road.



In contrast, Saudi Arabia and Canada are examples of net exporting countries because they have an abundance of oil which they then sell to other countries that are unable to meet the demand for energy domestically.


   Pros and Cons of Being a Net Importer  

Being a net importer implies that a country has a trade deficit. A benefit of a trade deficit is that it allows a country to consume more than it produces. In the short run, trade deficits can help nations to avoid shortages of goods and other economic problems. Trade deficits can also occur because a country is a highly-desirable destination for foreign investment. For example, the U.S. dollar's status as the world's reserve currency creates a strong demand for U.S. dollars. Foreigners must sell goods to Americans to obtain dollars.



Trade deficits can create substantial problems in the long run. The worst and most obvious problem is that trade deficits can facilitate a sort of economic colonization. If a country continually runs trade deficits, citizens of other countries acquire funds to buy up capital in that nation. That can mean making new investments that increase productivity and create jobs. However, it may also involve merely buying up existing businesses, natural resources, and other assets. If this buying continues, foreign investors will eventually own nearly everything in the country.
What Is Net Income (NI)?  

Net income (NI), also called net earnings, is calculated as sales minus cost of goods sold, selling, general and administrative expenses, operating expenses, depreciation, interest, taxes, and other expenses. It is a useful number for investors to assess how much revenue exceeds the expenses of an organization. This number appears on a company's income statement and is also an indicator of a company's profitability.





Key Takeaways

Net income (NI) is calculated as revenues minus expenses, interest, and taxes.Earnings per share are calculated using NI.Investors should review the numbers used to calculate NI because expenses can be hidden in accounting methods, or revenues can be inflated.NI also represents an individual's total earnings or pre-tax earnings after factoring deductions and taxes in gross income.



Net income also refers to an individual's income after taking taxes and deductions into account.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   Understanding Net Income (NI)  

Businesses use net income to calculate their earnings per share. Business analysts often refer to net income as the bottom line since it is at the bottom of the income statement. Analysts in the United Kingdom know NI as profit attributable to shareholders.






Net income (NI) is known as the "bottom line" as it appears as the last line on the income statement once all expenses, interest, and taxes have been subtracted from revenues.


   Calculating NI for Businesses  

To calculate net income for a business, start with a company's total revenue. From this figure, subtract the business's expenses and operating costs to calculate the business's earnings before tax. Deduct tax from this amount to find the NI.



NI, like other accounting measures, is susceptible to manipulation through such things as aggressive revenue recognition or hiding expenses. When basing an investment decision on NI, investors should review the quality of the numbers used to arrive at the taxable income and NI.


   Personal Gross Income vs. NI  

Gross income refers to an individual's total earnings or pre-tax earnings, and NI refers to the difference after factoring deductions and taxes into gross income. To calculate taxable income, which is the figure used by the Internal Revenue Service to determine income tax, taxpayers subtract deductions from gross income. The difference between taxable income and income tax is an individual's NI.



For example, an individual has $60,000 in gross income and qualifies for $10,000 in deductions. That individual's taxable income is $50,000 with an effective tax rate of 13.88% giving an income tax payment $6,939.50 and NI of $43,060.50.


   NI on Tax Returns  

In the United States, individual taxpayers submit a version of Form 1040 to the IRS to report annual earnings. This form does not have a line for net income. Instead, it has lines to record gross income, adjusted gross income (AGI), and taxable income.



After noting their gross income, taxpayers subtract certain income sources such as Social Security benefits and qualifying deductions such as student loan interest. The difference is their AGI. Although the terms are sometimes used interchangeably, net income and AGI are two different things. Taxpayers then subtract standard or itemized deductions from their AGI to determine their taxable income. As stated above, the difference between taxable income and income tax is the individual's NI, but this number is not noted on individual tax forms.


   NI on Paycheck Stubs  

Most paycheck stubs have a line devoted to NI. This is the amount that appears on an employee's check. The number is the employee's gross income, minus taxes, and retirement account contributions.
What Is Net Income After Taxes?  

Net income after taxes (NIAT) is a financial term used to describe a company's profit after all taxes have been paid. Net income after taxes is an accounting term and is most often found in a company's quarterly and annual financial reports. Net income after taxes represents the profit or earnings after all expense have been deducted from revenue. Net income after taxes calculation can be shown as both a total dollar amount and a per-share calculation.





Key Takeaways

Net income after taxes (NIAT) is a financial term used to describe a company's profit after all taxes have been paid.Net income after taxes represents the profit or earnings after all expense have been deducted from revenue.Companies that increase net income have more cash to invest in the company's future, pay dividends, and buyback stock.


   Understanding Net Income After Taxes (NIAT)  

Net income after taxes (NIAT) is the net income of a business less all taxes. In other words, NIAT is the sum of all revenues generated from the sale of the company's products and services minus the costs to run it. Revenue and sales are sometimes used interchangeably by companies. Also, retail companies often use the term net revenue or net sales, because they often have returned merchandise by customers. The total amount of rebates to customers from returns is deducted from the revenue total for the period.



Regardless of the term used by a company to describe its total revenue earned from sales, revenue is always located at the top of the income statement. As a result, revenue is the figure that all costs and expenses are deducted from that ultimately leads to net income, which rests at the bottom of the income statement. This is why revenue is referred to as the top line, while net income is called the bottom line.



Net income after taxes is calculated by taking revenue and subtracting all of a company's expenses and costs, including the following:



Cost of goods sold, which represents the costs involved in production including direct labor and direct materials or inventory
Depreciation, which is the process of expensing or spreading out the cost of fixed assets over their useful life
Charge-offs, which can be one-time write-offs or losses
Interest expense on any debt including short-term debt and the interest portion for that period for long-term debt, such as bonds issued
Taxes paid to the government
Overhead costs, which include the staff and building for the corporate office are listed on the income statement as selling, general, and administrative (SG&A)
Research and development spending



Although net income after taxes is essentially the same as net income, it is used in financial statements to differentiate between income before taxes and income after taxes. The two figures can also be described as pre-tax income and after-tax income.


   Interpreting Net Income After Taxes  

Net income after taxes is one of the most analyzed figures on a company’s financial statements. The amount recorded provides an indication of the profitability of a company, which determines whether the firm can compensate its investors and shareholders through dividends and share buybacks. Dividends are rewards–usually in cash–paid to shareholders while buybacks are share repurchases by a company.



An increase in profits over multiple periods typically leads to an increase in the company's stock price since investors would have a favorable view of the business. As a company generates additional net income, they have more cash to invest in the company's future, which can include purchasing new equipment, technologies, or expanding their operations and sales. A company with positive net income growth is also in a better financial position to pay down debt or make an acquisition to boost their competitiveness and total revenue.



A company with a net income figure that is negative or below average can be the result of a firm experiencing a decline in sales, poor expense management, outdated technologies, excessive debt, or a poorly executed management strategy.



A company with negative net income–or losses–can also be because it's a start-up firm, which may see years before the company turns a profit. Instead of watching net income, investors monitor revenue growth to determine if the company has the potential to eventually be profitable.






A surge in a company's net income after taxes can be due to a lower tax rate or favorable tax treatment. Investors should crosscheck increases in NIAT with pre-tax income to ensure that the additional profit is due to increases in revenue and not merely a tax windfall.


   Special Considerations  

Net income after taxes is not the total cash earned by a company over a given period, since non-cash expenses, such as depreciation and amortization are subtracted from revenue to get the NIAT. Instead, the cash flow statement is the reference to how much cash a company generates over a period.



While the net income after taxes calculation is one of the most solid measures of a company's performance, numerous accounting scandals over the years have proven it to be less than 100% reliable. It's important to note that net income is a valuable metric to use to evaluate a company's profitability. However, a company's reported financial numbers are only as reliable as the company behind them.



When comparing the net income of multiple companies, investors can use various financial metrics or ratios. A popular profitability ratio is called profit margin, which is NIAT as a percentage of total revenue of a company. The profit margin measures how much out of every dollar of sales a company generates as profit. For example, a company that generates $1 million in revenue and $200,000 in profit would have a 20% profit margin ($200,000/$1,000,000 = .20 *100 to convert .20 to a percent). In other words, for each dollar of revenue generated from sales, the company earns $0.20 in profits. Profitability analysis can help investors determine if a company's net income is favorable when compared to other companies.


   Real World Example of Net Income After Taxes  

Below is the income statement for Apple Inc. (AAPL) for the fiscal quarter ending Dec. 28, 2019, according to the company's 10-Q filing:



Near the bottom of the statement (highlighted in blue) is Apple's pre-tax income, which was $25.9 billion for the quarter ending December 2019.The income tax deduction (highlighted in red) shows that Apple paid $3.6 billion in taxes for the quarter.Net income (highlighted in green) was $22.2 billion for the quarter.In other words, Apple posted $22.2 billion in net income after taxes in December 2019, which was an increase from $19.9 billion in NIAT from one year earlier.















Example of net income after taxes using Apple Inc.
 Investopedia
What Is Net Interest Income?  

Net interest income is a financial performance measure that reflects the difference between the revenue generated from a bank's interest-bearing assets and the expenses associated with paying on its interest-bearing liabilities. A typical bank's assets consist of all forms of personal and commercial loans, mortgages, and securities. The liabilities are interest-bearing customer deposits. The excess revenue that is generated from the interest earned on assets over the interest paid out on deposits is the net interest income.





Key Takeaways

Net interest income reflects the difference between the revenue generated from a bank's interest-bearing assets and the expenses associated with paying its interest-bearing liabilities.The type of assets earning interest for the bank can range from mortgages to auto, personal, and commercial real estate loans.The amount of net interest income a bank generates will depend on many factors including the quality of the loan portfolio, the collective interest rates each type of loan carries, as well as whether the loans carry a fixed or variable rate.Banks calculate their net interest income by subtracting the interest they must pay out to their clients from the interest income they generate.You can find a bank's net interest income in its quarterly and annual reports.


   Understanding Net Interest Income  

The net interest income of some banks is more sensitive to changes in interest rates than others. This can be the result of several factors such as the type of assets and liabilities that are held as well as whether or not the assets and liabilities have fixed or variable rates. Naturally, banks with variable rate assets and liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in the interest rates than those with fixed-rate holdings.



The type of assets earning interest for the bank can range from mortgages to auto, personal, and commercial real estate loans. These loans all typically carry different levels of risk, thus the interest rate the bank earns for each type of loan will vary. For example, a personal loan will almost always carry a higher interest rate than a mortgage.



The resulting net interest income from a bank's assets will depend on the makeup of their holdings. Moreover, loans of the same type can carry fixed rates or variables rates, depending on the consumer. This is frequently seen with mortgages, as most banks offer both fixed- and adjustable-rate mortgages.



The quality of the loan portfolio is another factor affecting net interest income. Circumstances such as a deteriorating economy and heavy job losses can cause borrowers to default on their loans, resulting in a lower net interest income.


   Example of Net Interest Income  

If a bank has a loan portfolio of $1 billion earning an average of 5% interest, the bank's interest revenue will be $50 million. On the liability side, if the bank has outstanding customer deposits of $1.2 billion earning 2% interest, then its interest expense will be $24 million. The bank will be generating $26 million in net interest income ($50 million in interest revenue minus $24 million in interest expense).



Both JPMorgan Chase (JPM) and Bank of America Corp. (BAC), two of the largest financial institutions in the world, saw notably different decreases in their net interest income in FY2021 as compared to FY2020. JPMorgan Chase's net interest income fell by a whopping 44,152.63% in 2021, whereas Bank of America saw losses of just 0.98%.





$180 billion

Q4 2022 net interest income of FDIC-insured banks and saving institutions.


   Special Considerations  

A bank can earn more interest from its assets than it pays out on its liabilities, but that does not necessarily mean the bank is profitable. Banks, like other businesses, have additional expenses such as rent, utilities, employee wages, and management salaries. After subtracting these expenses from net interest income, the bottom line could be negative.



Still, banks can also have additional sources of revenue besides interest received on loans, such as fees from investment banking or investment advisory services. Investors should consider ancillary revenue sources and expenses in addition to net interest income when evaluating a bank's profitability.




What Does Net Interest Income Mean?
Net interest income is the difference between the revenue a bank earns from its interest-bearing assets and the expenses of its interest-bearing liabilities.




How Do You Calculate Net Interest Income?
A bank calculates its net interest income by subtracting the amount of interest-bearing liabilities from its interest-bearing assets.




What Is NII and NIM?
NII or net interest income is the difference between the income a bank earns from its lending activities and the interest it pays to depositors whereas NIM or net interest margin is calculated by dividing NII by the average earning assets.




What Is Net Interest Income for Banks?
Net interest income is a financial measure used to calculate the difference between the revenue generated from a bank's interest-bearing assets and the expenses associated with paying its interest-bearing liabilities.
What Is Net Interest Margin?  

Net interest margin (NIM) is a measurement comparing the net interest income a financial firm generates from credit products like loans and mortgages, with the outgoing interest it pays holders of savings accounts and certificates of deposit (CDs). Expressed as a percentage, the NIM is a profitability indicator that approximates the likelihood of a bank or investment firm thriving over the long haul. This metric helps prospective investors determine whether or not to invest in a given financial services firm by providing visibility into the profitability of their interest income versus their interest expenses.



Simply put: a positive net interest margin suggests that an entity operates profitably, while a negative figure implies investment inefficiency. In the latter scenario, a firm may take corrective action by applying funds toward outstanding debt or shifting those assets towards more profitable investments.












Investopedia / Crea Taylor


   Calculating Net Interest Margin  

Net interest margin may be calculated by the following formula:



﻿















Net Interest Margin


=




IR


−


IE




Average Earning Assets


















where:
















IR


=


Investment returns
















IE


=


Interest expenses








\begin{aligned} &\text{Net Interest Margin} = \frac { \text{IR} - \text{IE} }{ \text{Average Earning Assets} } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{IR} = \text{Investment returns} \\ &\text{IE} = \text{Interest expenses} \\ \end{aligned}


​Net Interest Margin=Average Earning AssetsIR−IE​where:IR=Investment returnsIE=Interest expenses​﻿



Consider the following fictitious example: Assume Company ABC boasts a return on investment of $1,000,000, an interest expense of $2,000,000, and average earning assets of $10,000,000. In this scenario, ABC's net interest margin totals -10%, indicating that it lost more money due to interest expenses than it earned from its investments. This firm would likely fare better if it used its investment funds to pay off debts rather than making this investment.


   What Affects Net Interest Margin  

Multiple factors may affect a financial institution's net interest margin—chief among them: supply and demand. If there's a large demand for savings accounts compared to loans, net interest margin decreases, as the bank is required to pay out more interest than it receives. Conversely, if there's a higher demand in loans versus savings accounts, where more consumers are borrowing than saving, a bank's net interest margin increases.






Monetary policy and fiscal regulation can impact a bank's net interest margin as the direction of interest rates dictate whether consumers borrow or save.



Monetary policies set by central banks also heavily influence a bank's net interest margins because these edicts play a pivotal role in governing the demand for savings and credit. When interest rates are low, consumers are more likely to borrow money and less likely to save it. Over time, this generally results in higher net interest margins. Contrarily, if interest rates rise, loans become costlier, thus making savings a more attractive option, which consequently decreases net interest margins.


   Net Interest Margin and Retail Banking  

Most retail banks offer interest on customer deposits, which generally hovers around 1% annually. If such a bank marshaled together the deposits of five customers and used those proceeds to issue a loan to a small business, with an annual interest rate of 5%, the 4% margin between these two amounts is considered the net interest spread. Looking one step further, the net interest margin calculates that ratio over the bank's entire asset base.



Let's assume a bank has earning assets of $1.2 million, $1 million in deposits with a 1% annual interest to depositors, and loans out $900,000 at an interest of 5%. This means its investment returns total $45,000, and its interest expenses are $10,000. Using the aforementioned formula, the bank's net interest margin is 2.92%. With its NIM squarely in positive territory, investors may wish to strongly consider investing in this firm.


   Historical Net Interest Margins  

The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) releases an average net interest margin figure for all U.S. banks on a quarterly basis. Historically, this figure has trended downward while averaging about 3.8% since first being recorded in 1984. Recessionary periods coincide with dips in average net interest margins, while periods of economic expansion have witnessed sharp initial increases in the figure, followed by gradual declines.﻿﻿



The overall movement of the average net interest margin has tracked the movement of the federal funds rate over time. Case in point: following the financial crisis of 2008, U.S. banks operated under decreasing net interest margins due to a falling rate that reached near-zero levels from 2008 to 2016. During this recession, the average net interest margin for banks in the U.S. shed nearly a quarter of its value before finally picking up again in 2015.﻿﻿
What Is the Net Interest Rate Differential (NIRD)?  

The net interest rate differential (NIRD), in international currency (forex) markets, is the total difference in the interest rates of two distinct national economies.



For instance, if a trader is long the NZD/USD pair, they will own the New Zealand currency and borrow the U.S. currency. The New Zealand dollars in this case can be placed in a New Zealand bank earning interest while simultaneously taking out a loan for the same notional amount from a U.S. bank. The net interest rate differential is the after-tax, after-fee difference in any interest earned and any interest paid while holding the currency pair position.





Key Takeaways

The net interest rate differential (NIRD) measures the total difference in interest rates of two currencies in the forex market.The net interest rate differential is the difference in any interest earned and any interest paid while holding the currency pair position after accounting for fees, taxes, and other charges.The NIRD plays an important role in evaluating the merits of a currency carry trade.


   Understanding the Net Interest Rate Differential (NIRD)  

Generally, an interest rate differential (IRD) measures the contrast in interest rates between two similar interest-bearing assets. Traders in the forex market use interest rate differentials when pricing forward exchange rates. Based on the interest rate parity, a trader can create an expectation of the future exchange rate between two currencies and set the premium, or discount, on the current market exchange rate futures contracts. The net interest rate differential is specific to use in currency markets.



The net interest rate differential is a key component of the carry trade. A carry trade is a strategy that foreign exchange traders use in an attempt to profit from the difference between interest rates, and if traders are long a currency pair, they may be able to profit from a rise in the currency pair. While the carry trade does earn interest on the net interest rate differential, a move in the underlying currency pair spread could easily fall (as it has historically) and risk wiping out the benefits of the carry trade leading to losses.



The currency carry trade remains one of the most popular trading strategies in the currency market. The best way to first implement a carry trade is to determine which currency offers a high yield and which offers a lower one. The most popular carry trades nowadays involve buying currency pairs like the USD/JPY and the AUD/JPY since these have interest rate spreads that are high enough to benefit from, but use relatively stable currencies.


   Net Interest Rate Differential and the Carry Trade  

The NIRD is the amount the investor can expect to profit using a carry trade. Say an investor borrows $1,000 and converts the funds into British pounds, allowing them to purchase a British bond. If the purchased bond yields 7% and the equivalent U.S. bond yields 3%, then the IRD equals 4%, or 7% minus 3%. This profit is ensured only if the exchange rate between dollars and pounds remains constant.



One of the primary risks involved with this strategy is the uncertainty of currency fluctuations. In this example, if the British pound were to fall in relation to the U.S. dollar, the trader may experience losses. Additionally, traders may use leverage, such as with a factor of 10-to-1, to improve their profit potential. If the investor leveraged borrowing by a factor of 10-to-1, they could make a profit of 40%. However, leverage could also cause larger losses if there are significant movements in exchange rates that go against the trade.
What Is Net Internal Rate of Return – Net IRR?  

Net internal rate of return (net IRR) is a performance measurement equal to the internal rate of return after fees and carried interest are factored in. It is used in capital budgeting and portfolio management to calculate an investment's yield or overall financial quality by calculating an expected rate of return.



Practically, net IRR is the rate at which the net present value of negative cash flow equals the net present value of positive cash flow. A net internal rate of return is expressed as a percentage.





Key Takeaways

Net internal rate of return (Net IRR) is a way of gauging the performance of a project or investment based on its discounted future cash flows.Net IRR takes traditional IRR and then accounts for the effects of fees, costs, carried interest, and other deductions that IRR would typically overlook.Because it factors in costs and fees, net IRR gives investors or managers a more accurate picture of an investment's actualized potential.


   The Basics of Net IRR  

The IRR is a discount rate where the present value of future cash flows of an investment is equal to the cost of the investment. The net IRR is a modified IRR value that has taken into consideration management fees and any carried interest.



Generally, a higher net internal rate of return means that it is a better investment. However, a marginally lower net IRR spread over a longer time period can be superior to a shorter-term, higher net IRR investment.


   Net Internal Rate of Return Put to Use  

Calculating a fund's net internal rate of return can help an investor or analyst determine which investment is the best option. Given a pair of funds that hold the same investments and are managed using the same strategy, it would be wise to consider the one with the lower fee.



But structural similarity and fees are not enough to prove that one fund is better than another. That can only be learned by calculating the net IRR for both funds. The one with the lower fee may not necessarily be the best choice.


   Real-World Example of Net IRR: Net IRR and Private Equity  

Net internal rate of return is commonly used in private equity to analyze investment projects that require regular cash investments over time but offer only a single cash outflow at its completion – usually, an initial public offering, a merger or an acquisition.



If the investment's net present value is the same as the net present value of benefits, or if it surpasses the acceptable rate of return, the project is considered profitable. If two competing projects turn out to have the same net internal rate of return, the one with the shorter time frame is considered the better investment.



In 2014, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) began investigating whether private equity fund managers were correctly disclosing their own invested capital into their own funds when performing net internal rate of return calculations. Including that sum—known as a "general partner commitment"—could artificially inflate fund performance because such capital infusions do not have fees attached to them.



How net IRR calculations are performed (whether they include general partner capital or not) varies among private equity firms, Reuters found. The SEC expects private equity firms to clearly report both average net IRRs and gross IRRs on all fund prospectuses and marketing material.
What Is the Net Interest Rate Spread?  

The net interest rate spread is the difference between the yield that a financial institution receives from loans and other interest-accruing activities and the rate it pays on deposits and borrowings. The net interest rate spread is a key determinant of a financial institution’s profitability (or lack thereof).





Key Takeaways

The net interest rate spread is the difference between the interest rate a bank pays and the interest rate it receives in its income-generating activities.The net interest rate spread is instrumental to a bank's profitability.It can be helpful to think of the net interest rate as how much a bank profits in a given period.


   Understanding the Net Interest Rate Spread  

Loan-granting institutions, such as commercial banks, receive interest income from several sources. Deposits (often called core deposits) are a primary source, generally in the forms of checking and savings accounts or certificates of deposit (CDs). These are often obtained at low rates. Banks also obtain funds through shareholder equity, wholesale deposits, and debt issuance. Banks issue various loans—such as mortgages on property, home equity lending, student loans, car loans, and credit card lending—that are offered at higher interest rates.



The primary business of a bank is managing the spread between the interest rate on deposits that it pays consumers and the rate it receives from their loans. In other words, when the interest that a bank earns from loans is greater than the interest it pays on deposits, it generates income from the interest rate spread. In simple terms, net interest rates spreads are like profit margins.



The greater the spread, the more profitable the financial institution will likely be. However, this is just the basic view, and financial institutions work on creative customer acquisition, customer retention and loyalty, and principal investing strategies. Their individual strategies help them compete and differentiate themselves from other financial institutions.






The net interest rate spread (in dollar value, not percentage) is similar to a non-financial business' gross profit. It demonstrates profitability after costs.


   Calculation of the Net Interest Rate Spread  

To calculate an interest rate spread, you use the average rate of a bank's interest-bearing liabilities and the yield for its interest-earning assets. A formula might be:



Ii - Io = Net Interest Rate Spread



Where:



Ii is the interest rate the bank is paid, usually called interest-earning assetsIo is the interest rate the bank pays, usually called interest-bearing liabilities



For instance, in 2022, Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) had $31.24 billion in interest income with an average yield of 7.68%. Its interest-bearing liabilities for the year totaled $4.12 billion with an average yield of 1.25%. For 2022, the bank had an interest rate spread of 6.43%, or $27.1 billion, from its interest-bearing activities.












Capital One 2022 Annual Report


   Net Interest Rate Spread vs. Net Interest Margin  

Net interest margin is different because it accounts for other funding sources or income that don't fit a corporation's accounting definitions, such as investments or accounts that don't bear interest. For example, on its FY 2022 Annual Report, Capital One's net interest spread was 6.43%, but after accounting for the impact of 0.24% in non-interest-bearing funding, its net interest margin was 6.67%.



Its annual report doesn't explain what it considers non-interest-bearing funding, only that it has a "notional impact" that affects its net interest margin.




What Is an Interest Rate Spread?
Interest rate spread is the difference between interest rates charged to customers and the interest rate a bank pays other banks when they borrow money.




What Is an Example of Bank Spread?
Net income rate spread is sometimes called bank spread. If Bank A averaged 5.25% interest on interest-earning assets and 1.25% on interest-bearing liabilities, the bank spread would be 4.0%.




How Do You Calculate Net Interest Rate Spread?
Banks use the yield on interest-earning assets and subtract the rate on interest-bearing liabilities to get the net interest rate spread.


   The Bottom Line  

Net interest rate spread is one way banks measure their profitability. The measurement is a good indicator of a bank's financial performance for a period, but as with all metrics, it should be taken in context with other measures.
What Is a Net International Investment Position (NIIP)?  

A net international investment position (NIIP) measures the gap between a nation’s stock of foreign assets and a foreigner's stock of that nation's assets. Essentially, it can be viewed as a nation’s balance sheet with the rest of the world at a specific point in time.





Key Takeaways

A net international investment position (NIIP) measures the gap between a nation’s stock of foreign assets and a foreigner's stock of that nation's assets.It can be viewed as a nation’s balance sheet with the rest of the world at a specific point in time.NIIP is an important barometer of a nation’s financial condition and creditworthiness.A nation with a positive NIIP is a creditor nation, while a nation with a negative NIIP is a debtor nation.


   Understanding a Net International Investment Position (NIIP)  

NIIP includes overseas assets and liabilities held by a nation’s government, the private sector, and its citizens. The NIIP is analogous to net foreign assets (NFA), which determines whether a country is a creditor or debtor nation by measuring the difference in its external assets and liabilities.



Most nations release NIIP figures quarterly. In the NIIP, assets are divided into direct investment, portfolio investment, other investment, and reserve assets, which include foreign currencies, gold, and special drawing rights. Liabilities are reported with the same classification, except for “reserve assets,” which have no equivalent on the liabilities side.


  Why a Net International Investment Position (NIIP) Is Important  

A nation’s NIIP is a key component of the national balance sheet since NIIP plus the value of non-financial assets is equal to an economy's net worth. The NIIP, coupled with the balance of payments transactions, reflects the domestic economy’s set of international accounts.



The NIIP position is an important barometer of a nation’s financial condition and creditworthiness. A negative NIIP figure indicates that foreign nations own more of the domestic nation’s assets than the domestic nation does of foreign assets, thus making it a debtor nation. Conversely, a positive NIIP figure indicates that the domestic nation's ownership of foreign assets is greater than the foreign nation's ownership of that domestic nation's assets, thus making it a creditor nation.






Two metrics used to assess the NIIP's size relative to the economy's size are the ratio of NIIP to gross domestic product (GDP) and the ratio of NIIP to the economy’s total financial assets.


   Example of a Net International Investment Position (NIIP)  

U.S. NIIP data is published by the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) and accessible to all.



The country's NIIP at the end of the third quarter of 2020 was –$13.95 trillion, a decrease from its prior reading of –$13.08 trillion at the end of the second quarter of 2020. This means that the difference in the value of foreign assets owned by the U.S. fell further below the value of U.S. assets owned by foreign nations.















Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA).



Here’s how the numbers stacked up:



Foreign assets owned by the U.S. at end-Q3 2020 = $29.41 trillionU.S. assets owned by foreign nations at end-Q3 2020 = $43.36 trillionNIIP = –$13.95 trillion
What Is Net Investment?  

Net investment is the total amount of money that a company spends on capital assets, minus the cost of the depreciation of those assets. This figure provides a sense of the real expenditure on durable goods such as plants, equipment, and software that are being used in the company's operations.





Key Takeaways

Net investment indicates how much a company is spending to maintain and improve its operations.If net investment is positive, the company is expanding its capacity.If net investment is negative, its capacity is shrinking.



Capital assets lose value over time due to wear and tear and obsolescence. Therefore, subtracting depreciation from gross capital expenditure (CAPEX) provides a more accurate picture of their actual value.



Capital assets include all property and equipment that contribute to the productive capacity of the business. The total for capital assets also includes the costs of their upkeep, maintenance, repair, and installation.


  Net Investment for Nations  

Net investment is a component of a nation's gross domestic product (GDP).



In a nation's GDP, the figure indicates gross private domestic investment. It includes all expenditures by private companies and governments on real estate and inventories. Thus, it is a leading indicator of a nation's potential economic production capacity.


   Understanding Net Investment  

If gross investment is consistently higher than depreciation, the net investment figure will be positive, indicating that the company's productive capacity is increasing. If gross investment is consistently lower than depreciation, net investment will be negative, indicating that productive capacity is decreasing. That can be a problem down the road. This is true for all entities, from the smallest companies to the largest national economies.






When comparing net investment figures, stick with the same industry for relevant results.



Net investment is, therefore, a better indicator than gross investment of how much an enterprise is investing in its business since it takes depreciation into account.



Investing an amount equal to the total depreciation in a year is the minimum required to keep the asset base from shrinking. While this may not be a problem for a year or two, a net investment that is negative for a prolonged time period eventually will render the enterprise uncompetitive.


   Net Investment Calculation  

Suppose a company spends $1 million on a new piece of machinery that has an expected life of 30 years and has a residual value of $100,000. Based on the straight-line method of depreciation, annual depreciation would be $30,000, or ($1,000,000 - $100,000) / 30. Therefore, the amount of net investment at the end of the first year would be $970,000.


  The Formula  

The formula for calculating net investment is:



Net Investment = Capital Expenditures – Depreciation (non-cash)



Regular investment in capital assets is critical to an enterprise's continuing success. The net investment amount required for a company depends on the sector it operates in, Sectors such as industrial products, goods producers, utilities, and telecommunications are more capital intensive than sectors such as technology and consumer products.



That's why, when comparing net investment among various companies, it is most relevant if they are in the same sector.
What Is Net Investment Income (NII)?  

Net investment income (NII), for tax purposes, is the total amount of money received from assets such as stocks, bonds, and mutual funds, minus related expenses.



NII may include interest income, dividend income, and capital gains. This income, minus the expenses, is taxable at a rate that is determined by the taxpayer's modified adjusted gross income (MAGI).





Key Takeaways

Net investment income is income received from assets (before taxes) including bonds, stocks, mutual funds, loans, and other investments (less related expenses).NII is subject to a 3.8% tax for individuals with an NII and MAGI above certain thresholds.Estates and trusts are subject to the NII tax if they have undistributed NII and their annual adjusted gross income exceeds the dollar amount at which the highest tax bracket begins.For investment companies, this is the amount of income left after operating expenses are subtracted from total investment income.The net investment income tax went into effect in 2013 as a means of raising revenue to fund the Affordable Care Act.


   Understanding Net Investment Income (NII)  

Income can be any money or compensation that an individual or a business earns in exchange for labor, the sale of products and services, or from investments. When investors sell assets from their portfolios, the proceeds from the transaction result in either a realized gain or loss. Realized gains may come in the form of:



Capital gains from the sale of stock
Interest income received from fixed-income products
Dividends paid to shareholders of a company
Rental income received from property
Certain annuity payments
Royalty payments



Costs such as trading commissions are subtracted from realized gains before taxes to arrive at net investment income. Other forms of income, such as wages, are not included. The table below has a list of the types of income that apply and don't apply.



NII has been taxable above certain thresholds since Jan. 1, 2013. Known as the net investment income tax, it was passed as part of the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010. The NII tax was included as a revenue-raising tool to offset the costs of the Affordable Care Act (ACA). The rate was set at 3.8% on "certain net investment income of individuals, estates and trusts that have income above the statutory threshold amounts."






Net investment income may be either positive or negative depending on whether the asset was sold for a capital gain or loss.


   What Counts as Net Investment Income?  

There following tables show what counts and what doesn't count as net investment income.









Net Investment Income: What Counts and What Doesn't




What Counts 
What Doesn't Count 


Interest income 
Wages and salaries


Capital gains 
Alimony 


Dividends
Social Security benefits


Passive investment income
Unemployment benefits


Rental income
Qualified distributions (401(k)s, IRAs)


Royalty income
Life insurance payouts


Non-qualified annuity distributions
Income from active business investments


Business income (financial trading activities)
Proceeds from tax-exempt organizations and transactions






Keep in mind that the tax applies to individuals, estates, and trusts. It is imposed on entities that have income that falls above the threshold amounts listed below.


   Who Pays the NII Tax?  
  Individuals  

The net investment income is subject to a 3.8% tax. It is applied to individuals with NII who fall within a certain modified adjusted gross income threshold. These thresholds are listed in the table below.









Threshold for Net Investment Income Tax




Filing status
MAGI Limit ($)


Single
$200,000


Head of Household
$200,000


Married filing separately
$125,000


Married filing jointly
$250,000


Qualified widow(er) with dependent
$250,000






The net investment income tax is applied to the lesser of the net investment income or the MAGI amount in excess of the predetermined limit.


  Estates and Trusts  

Estates and trusts are subject to the NII tax if they have undistributed NII and their annual adjusted gross income (AGI) exceeds the dollar amount at which the highest tax bracket begins.



A nonresident alien is not subject to the tax unless they are married to a U.S. citizen or resident and elect to be treated as a resident of the U.S. for tax purposes.


  Investment Companies  

For investment companies, net investment income is the amount of income left after operating expenses are subtracted from total investment income, and is typically expressed on a per-share basis.



To find the net investment income per share of a company, divide the total investment income by the shares outstanding. This amount is what is available to shareholders as dividends. A publicly traded company must list its net investment income on its balance sheet.






If you can reduce your reported MAGI or net investment income, you can also reduce your NII tax liability. Some ways to do that include contributing to retirement plans or charities, or tax-loss harvesting.


   How to Calculate the NII Tax  

Before you can calculate the NII tax, you must determine the income you earned from every one of your qualified investments. Be sure you account for and subtract any fees and related expenses, such as commissions and brokerage charges. You can refer to the list of what counts in the table above.



Next, you'll need to get your MAGI. This figure is your AGI plus any excluded income and certain deductions like student loan payments. See the table above for your tax filing status. If you fall above any of those thresholds, you will have to pay an NII tax.



You can use Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Form 8960 to determine what your tax liability is for net investment income, or you can do so on your own. The 3.8% tax is imposed on your net investment income or the amount by which your MAGI exceeds the listed thresholds, whichever is less. Here are two simple scenarios, assuming you have an NII of $25,000:



Scenario 1: You exceed the MAGI by $30,000. You owe the 3.8% tax but only on the $25,000 investment income because it is less than the amount that goes over the MAGI threshold.Scenario 2: You exceed the MAGI by $10,000. You owe the 3.8% but only on the $10,000 because it is lower than your NII.






The net investment income tax is in addition to capital gains tax or dividends tax, which the investor still has to pay.


   How to Manage the NII Tax  

Even if you earn significant investment income, you can reduce your tax liabilities by taking steps that reduce your reported MAGI, your net investment income, or both.



One way to reduce your MAGI is to maximize your contributions to IRAs and other qualified retirement plans, or by participating in deferred compensation plans. If you can reduce your MAGI so that it does not exceed the threshold above, you may not need to pay NII tax at all.



You can also reduce your net investment income through tax-loss harvesting. By selling unprofitable investments at the same time as profitable ones, you can reduce your net investment income and thereby reduce your tax burden.



It is also possible to reduce NII through charitable contributions, such as a charitable remainder trust.


   How to Pay the NII Tax  

You must report your NII on IRS Form 8960. This form can help entities that are required to pay the tax to calculate their liability.



The figure on this form is transferred to the appropriate main tax form. For individuals, the NII tax is reported and paid with Form 1040. Estates and trusts that must report NII tax do so with Form 1041: U.S. Income Tax Return for Estates and Trusts.


   Example of Net Investment Income  

Here's a hypothetical example to show how net investment income works. Let's say an individual sells 100 shares of Apple (AAPL) for $175 per share and 50 shares of Netflix (NFLX) for $170 per share. They also received coupon payments for the year on their corporate bonds in the sum of $2,650 and income from a rental property of $16,600.



Their net investment income can be calculated as:









Investment Income
Amount


Capital gain from AAPL: (Sale Price $175 – Cost $140) x 100
$ 3,500


Capital loss from NFLX: (Sale Price 170 – Cost 200) x 50
($1,500)


Brokerage commissions
($35)


Interest income
$2,650


Rental income
$16,600


Tax preparation fees
($160)


Net Investment Income
$21,055







What Qualifies as Net Investment Income?
Net investment income is any money earned from an investment vehicle. This includes interest, capital gains, royalties, rent payments, dividends, and certain payments from annuities. It may come from stocks, bonds, investment properties, mutual funds, and other investments.Taxpayers should be aware that they may incur a tax on their net investment income if their modified gross adjusted income exceeds a certain amount based on their tax filing status.The tax also applies to estates, trusts, and other entities.




How Do I Calculate My Net Investment Income Tax?
You can use IRS Form 8960 to calculate your net investment income tax. You can also calculate it yourself by adding together all your investment income and subtracting any related fees and expenses.Then determine your modified adjusted gross income.You pay 3.8% on whichever is less—either your net investment income or the portion of your MAGI that exceeds your tax filing threshold as set by the Internal Revenue Service.




Can I Avoid Paying the Net Investment Income Tax?
There are ways to avoid qualifying for the NIIT. The key is keeping your modified adjusted gross income under the threshold.Talk to a tax professional or another financial professional to see what steps you can take to decrease your tax liability when it comes to your investments.


   The Bottom Line  

Investments can be used to prepare for the future or to help pay for unexpected emergencies such as car repairs or medical care. Although they may give you a cushion when you need it most, that investment income can add to your annual tax bill. This may come in the form of a net investment income tax.



Net investment income is any money you earn from your investments less any related fees and expenses. The tax will be imposed on the amount that your modified adjusted gross income exceeds your tax filing threshold or on the total amount of your NII.
What Is a Net Lease?  

The term net lease refers to a contractual agreement where a lessee pays a portion or all of the taxes, insurance fees, and maintenance costs for a property in addition to rent. Net leases are commonly used in commercial real estate. In the purest form of a net lease, the tenant is expected to pay for all the costs related to a piece of property as if the tenant were the actual owner. A net lease is the opposite of a gross lease, where the tenant pays a flat rental fee while the landlord is responsible for the other costs.





Key Takeaways

In a net lease, the tenant pays a portion or all of the taxes, insurance fees, and maintenance costs for a property in addition to rent.Net leases are commonly used in the commercial real estate sector.Landlords use net leases when they don't want to deal with the hassles associated with ongoing maintenance and other costs. Types of net leases include single net, double net, and triple net leases.


   Understanding Net Leases  

Net leases are just like owning property without actually having legal title over it. They are lease agreements between landlords and tenants where the tenant pays for rent and any other cost associated with the property in question. The agreement may include one or more expenses including insurance, property taxes, utilities, maintenance and repairs, and other operational costs. Most landlords generally accept lower rent payments because of the additional costs associated with net leases.



These lease agreements are a popular tool for commercial real estate investors who buy properties for the income and do not want the headaches of arranging maintenance, paying municipal taxes, and so on. Property owners use net leases to shift the burden of managing taxes, insurance, and fees to the tenant. Although the owner and/or lessor may charge less overall as a result, they no longer have to worry about the day-to-day administration of that property.



From the tenant and/or lessee perspective, a net lease must adequately compensate for the risk the tenant is taking on from the landlord. Stated another way, the cost difference between a gross lease and a net lease must be large enough to offset the unpredictable costs of maintenance and the potentially rising costs of taxes and insurance. The landlord gives up some money in rent to save headaches, and the tenant takes the discount knowing that year-to-year property costs may vary.






The cost difference between a gross lease and a net lease must be large enough for a tenant to offset the unpredictable costs of maintenance and taxes and insurance.


   Types of Net Leases  

The definition of what constitutes a net lease is quite broad and far from uniform across the country. Instead, net leases are broken down into three primary types that deal with the main cost categories of taxes, maintenance, and insurance fees—in addition to the rent charged by the landlord. They are:



Single Net Lease: When a tenant signs a single net lease, they pay one of the three expense categories.
Double Net Lease: Tenants who have a double net lease pay two of the three expense categories. These leases are also called net-net leases.
Triple Net Lease: In a triple net lease—also known as a net-net-net lease, the tenant pays all three expense categories. Triple net leases are usually whole building leases with a single tenant for the long-term —usually 10 years or more.



Even with the breakdowns above, the actual definition of a net lease is dependent on the details in each contract.



As mentioned above, net leases are the opposite of gross leases, where the landlord covers all of the expense categories in exchange for a fixed payment. In practice, a modified gross lease and a single or double net lease can be the same thing. A modified gross lease might have the tenant paying building insurance costs, for example, and could easily be classified as a single net lease. Again, the details of the lease matter more than whether the lessor considers it a net or gross lease.
What Are Net Liquid Assets?  

Net liquid assets are a measure of an immediate or near-term liquidity position of a firm, calculated as liquid assets less current liabilities. Liquid assets are cash, marketable securities, and accounts receivables that can be readily converted to cash at their approximate current value.





Key Takeaways

Net liquid assets are a measure of the near-term liquidity position of a firm, calculated as liquid assets less current liabilities.Liquid assets include cash, marketable securities, and accounts receivables. They are any assets that can be quickly converted into cash.Having a net liquid asset position signifies a company is in good health and is able to pay its short-term obligations, such as paying suppliers and paying down short-term debt.A net liquid asset position also demonstrates that a company can make new investments without having to take on financing.Having too many liquid assets, however, demonstrates an idle use of cash, whereby the money could be put to better use, such as other investments or paying out dividends.


   Understanding Net Liquid Assets  

The amount of net liquid assets is one of a few measures that gives a snapshot of the financial condition of a firm. Cash and marketable securities are ready to deploy, while accounts receivables could be turned into cash within a short period of time, though perhaps not completely as there is typically a small percentage of bad debt associated with aged receivables. Inventory does not qualify as a liquid asset because it cannot be readily sold without a significant discount.



Current liabilities mainly encompass accounts payable, accrued liabilities, income tax payable, and a current portion of long-term debt for the average company. Subtracting current liabilities from the above liquid assets shows the financial flexibility of a company to make a quick payment.


   Advantages of Net Liquid Assets  

Having a strong net liquid asset position is important for a firm because it demonstrates that a firm is able to pay off its short-term obligations, such as paying suppliers and paying off short-term debt. It also signifies that a company is able to make new investments, such as the purchase of equipment, without having to take on financing.



Companies that have a strong net liquid asset position are also better placed in times of economic downturns. They are in a position to weather the storm by relying on its liquid assets to continue paying its short-term obligations even if business is not booming.



On the other hand, a company that does not have a strong net liquid asset position and no significant revenues in an economic downturn will not be able to meet its obligations and may have to declare bankruptcy.



Having net liquid assets also makes it easier to receive financing from a bank as it demonstrates the ability of a company to pay off its loans, even in times of distress. This also results in usually receiving a better interest rate on a loan.



Though having net liquid assets is a positive position to be in, having too many liquid assets is not the most beneficial use of cash, as it could be invested and earning a return elsewhere, rather than sitting idly in a bank account. Conversely, it can also be used to pay dividends to shareholders.



There is a fine balance that a company must strike between enough liquid assets and too many liquid assets. The general rule of thumb is that if a business has six months of liquid assets to meet short-term obligations and cover operating expenses, it is in a good position financially.


   Example of Net Liquid Assets  

Say that XYZ Widgets, Incorporated has the following components on its balance sheet for current assets and current liabilities:



Current Assets



Cash: $22.7 millionAccounts Receivable: $29.5 millionInventory: $110.5 millionPrepaid Expenses: $11.7 millionIncome Tax Receivable: $1.5 millionOther Current Assets: $10.3 million



Current Liabilities



Accounts Payable: $53.8 millionAccrued Liabilities: $73.5 millionCurrent Portion of Long-Term Debt: $9.5 millionIncome Tax Payable: $1.7 million



Net liquid assets as of this date would be:



Cash + Accounts Receivables - Current Liabilities =



$22.7 million + $29.5 million - $138.5 million = -$86.3 million.



The negative net liquid position of the company may be a concern, but this situation is typical for a retailer. Still, it indicates that the company is not in the best financial position, particularly if the economy takes a turn for the worse.




What Are Common Examples of Liquid Assets?
A liquid asset is an asset that can be easily and quickly converted into cash. Examples of liquid assets may include cash, cash equivalents, money market accounts, marketable securities, short-term bonds, and accounts receivable.




Why Are Net Liquid Assets Important
Net liquid assets are important because a company consistently needs cash to meet its short-term obligations. Without cash, a company can't pay its bills to vendors or wages to employees. Liquid assets are also needed in case a short-term emergency arises that requires money to be spent.




What Is the Difference Between a Liquid Asset and Illiquid Asset?
A liquid asset is an item of future economic benefit to a company that can easily be exchanged for cash. On the other hand, illiquid assets are more difficult to sell. Examples of illiquid assets would include real estate & land, vehicles, equipment & machinery, and certain over-the-counter (OTC) securities, among others.
What Is Net Loss?  

A net loss is when total expenses (including taxes, fees, interest, and depreciation) exceed the income or revenue produced for a given period of time. A net loss may be contrasted with a net profit, also known as after-tax income or net income.





Key Takeaways

A net loss occurs when the sum total of expenses exceeds the total income or revenue generated by a business, project, transaction, or investment.Businesses would report a net loss on the income statement, effectively as a negative net profit.Many factors can contribute to a net loss including low revenues, strong competition, unsuccessful marketing campaigns, and increased cost of goods sold (COGS). 


   Understanding Net Loss  

For a business, net loss is sometimes referred to as a net operating loss (NOL). For tax purposes, net losses may be carried forward into future tax years to offset gains or profits in those years. A net loss appears on the company's bottom line or income statement. Net loss or net profit is calculated using the following formula:



Net Loss (or Net Profit) = Revenues - Expenses



Because revenues and expenses are matched during a set time, a net loss is an example of the matching principle, which is an integral part of the accrual accounting method. Expenses related to income earned during a set time are included in (or "matched to") that period regardless of when the expenses are paid.






When profits fall below the level of expenses and cost of goods sold (COGS) in a given time, a net loss results.


   Factors Contributing to a Net Loss  

The most common factor that contributes to a net loss is a low revenue stream. Strong competition, unsuccessful marketing programs, weak pricing strategies, not keeping up with market demands, and inefficient marketing staff contribute to decreasing revenues. Decreased revenues result in decreased profits. When profits fall below the level of expenses and cost of goods sold (COGS) in a given time, a net loss results.
COGS also affects net losses. Substantial production or purchase costs of products being sold are subtracted from revenue. The remaining money is used for covering expenses and creating profit. When COGS exceeds funding for expenses, a net loss occurs.
Expenses contribute to net losses as well. Even when targeted revenue is earned, and COGS remains within limits, unexpected expenses and overspending in budgeted areas may exceed gross profits.
Excessive carrying costs are a type of expense that can contribute to net losses. These are the costs a company pays for holding inventory in stock before it is sold to customers. 






Businesses that have a net loss do not necessarily go bankrupt immediately because they may opt to use their retained earnings or loans to stay afloat. This strategy, however, is only short-term, as a company without profits will not survive in the long-term.


   Net Loss Examples  

Say that substantial refunds were expected as companies took advantage of outstanding tax credits previously issued as a way of retaining jobs in the state during the recession. As a result, the state treasurer anticipates a decrease of $99 million in revenue from the state’s principal business taxes. This prompts state officials to cut the current and upcoming fiscal year revenue projections by a significant amount and, unless they can cut expenditures as well, they will be operating at a net loss.



Another example would be if Company A has $200,000 in sales, $140,000 in COGS, and $80,000 in expenses. Subtracting $140,000 COGS from $200,000 in sales results in $60,000 in gross profit. However, because expenses exceed gross profit, a $20,000 net loss results.



Yet another example would be of a company that sells frozen foods and needs to pay for refrigerated storage facilities, utility costs, taxes, employee expenses, and insurance. If sales are slow, the company will need to hold onto its inventory for a longer time, incurring additional carrying costs which could contribute to a net loss.




Can a company with positive revenues still have a net loss?
Yes, even if a company has a large volume of sales, it can still end up losing money if the cost of goods or other expenses related to those sales (e.g., marketing) are too high. Other factors like taxes, interest expenses, depreciation and amortization, and one-time charges like a lawsuit can also take a company from a profit to a net loss.




What is a net loss carryforward?
The IRS allows certain net losses experienced in one tax period to be used to deduct from net profits earned in subsequent periods. The 2018 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) changed how businesses must account for net operating loss carryforwards. Check with your accountant for all tax matters




Is a net loss the same as a negative profit?
A negative profit technically does not exist, since a profit, by definition, implies a gain in value. However, the term negative profit is used colloquially to describe a net loss.
What Is Net National Product (NNP)?  

Net national product (NNP) is the monetary value of finished goods and services produced by a country's citizens, overseas and domestically, in a given period. It is the equivalent of gross national product (GNP), the total value of a nation's annual output, minus the amount of GNP required to purchase new goods to maintain existing stock, otherwise known as depreciation.





Key Takeaways

Net national product (NNP) is gross national product (GNP), the total value of finished goods and services produced by a country's citizens overseas and domestically, minus depreciation.NNP is often examined on an annual basis as a way to measure a nation's success in continuing minimum production standards.Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is the most popular method to measure national income and economic prosperity, although NNP is prominently used in environmental economics.


   Understanding Net National Product (NNP)  

NNP is often examined on an annual basis as a way to measure a nation's success in continuing minimum production standards. It can be a useful method to keep track of an economy as it takes into account all its citizens, regardless of where they make their money, and acknowledges the fact that capital must be spent to keep production standards high.



The NNP is expressed in the currency of the nation it represents. That means that in the United States the NNP is expressed in dollars (USD), while for European Union (EU) member nations the NNP is expressed in euros (EUR).



The NNP can be extrapolated from the GNP by subtracting the depreciation of any assets. The depreciation figure is determined by assessing the loss of the value of assets attributed to normal use and aging.



The relationship between a nation's GNP and NNP is similar to the relationship between its gross domestic product (GDP) and net domestic product (NDP).


   Calculating Net National Product (NNP)  

The formula for NNP is:



﻿















NNP


=


MVFG


+


MVFS


−


Depreciation
















where:
















MVFG


=


market value of finished goods
















MVFS


=


market value of finished services








\begin{aligned} &\text{NNP} = \text{MVFG} + \text{MVFS} - \text{Depreciation} \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{MVFG} = \text{market value of finished goods} \\ &\text{MVFS} = \text{market value of finished services} \\ \end{aligned}


​NNP=MVFG+MVFS−Depreciationwhere:MVFG=market value of finished goodsMVFS=market value of finished services​﻿



Alternatively, NNP can be calculated as:



﻿















NNP


=


Gross National Product


−


Depreciation








\begin{aligned} &\text{NNP} = \text{Gross National Product} - \text{Depreciation} \\ \end{aligned}


​NNP=Gross National Product−Depreciation​﻿



For example, if Country A produces $1 trillion worth of goods and $3 trillion worth of services in 2018, and the assets used to produce those goods and services are depreciated by $500 billion, using the formula above, Country A's NNP is:



﻿









NNP









=


$


1


 


trillion


+


$


3


 


trillion


−


$


0


.


5


 


trillion
















=


$


3


.


5


 


trillion








\begin{aligned} \text{NNP} &= \$1 \ \text{trillion} + \$3 \ \text{trillion} - \$0.5 \ \text{trillion} \\ &= \$3.5 \ \text{trillion} \\ \end{aligned}


NNP​=$1 trillion+$3 trillion−$0.5 trillion=$3.5 trillion​﻿


   Recording Depreciation   

Depreciation in the overall economy, also referred to as capital consumption allowance (CCA), is a key component when calculating a country's NNP. CCA is an indicator of the need to replace certain assets and resources to maintain a specified level of national productivity. It is divided into two categories: physical capital and human capital.



Physical capital can include real estate, machinery, or any other tangible resource used in the production of goods and services. Human capital, on the other hand, covers the skills, knowledge, and abilities of a workforce to produce goods and services, as well as the necessary training or education that may be required to maintain production standards. 



Physical capital and human capital depreciate in different ways. Physical capital experiences depreciation based on physical wear and tear, while human capital experiences depreciation based on workforce turnover—when staff leave, companies must spend more of their resources on training and finding new talent.


   Special Considerations  
  Environmental Economics  

NNP has particular usefulness for the field of environmental economics. NNP is a model associated with the depletion of natural resources, and it can be used to determine whether certain activities are sustainable within a particular environment.


  Foreign-Made Products  

As previously mentioned, NNP also factors in the value of goods and services produced overseas. That means that the activities of U.S. manufacturers in Asia, for example, count toward the U.S.' NNP.



That is not the case for GDP and NDP, which limit their interpretation of the economy to the geographical borders of the country.
What Is Net-Net?  

Net-net is a value investing technique developed by the economist Benjamin Graham, in which a company's stock is valued based solely on its net current assets per share (NCAVPS). Net-net investing thus focuses on current assets, taking cash and cash equivalents at full value, then reducing accounts receivable for doubtful accounts, and reducing inventories to liquidation values. Net-net value is calculated by deducting total liabilities from the adjusted current assets. 



Net-net should not be confused with a double net lease, which is a commercial rental agreement where the tenant is responsible for both property taxes and premiums for insuring the property.





Key Takeaways

The net-net value investing strategy was developed by Benjamin Graham using net current asset value per share (NCAVPS) as the primary measure to evaluate the merits of a stock.According to the net-net strategy, the ability to generate revenue from current assets is the true value proposition of a business.Current assets, which are used in the net-net approach, are defined as assets that are cash, and assets that are converted into cash within 12 months, including accounts receivable and inventory.The net-net investing strategy does not consider long-term assets or liabilities, making it unreliable for long-term investments according to its critics.


   Understanding Net-Net Investing  

Graham used this method at a time when financial information was not as readily available, and net-nets were more accepted as a company valuation model. When a viable company is identified as a net-net, the analysis focused only on the firm’s current assets and liabilities, without taking other tangible assets or long-term liabilities into account. Advances in financial data collection now allow analysts to quickly access a firm’s entire set of financial statements, ratios, and other benchmarks.



Essentially, investing in a net-net was a safe play in the short term because its current assets were worth more than its market price. In a sense, the long-term growth potential and any value from long-term assets are free to an investor in a net-net. Net-net stocks will usually be reassessed by the market and priced closer to their true value in the short term. Long term, however, net-net stocks can be problematic.



The formula for net current asset value per share (NCAVPS) is:



NCAVPS = Current Assets - (Total Liabilities + Preferred Stock) ÷ # Shares Outstanding



According to Graham, investors will benefit greatly if they invest in companies whose stock prices are no more than 67% of their NCAV per share. And, in fact, a study done by the State University of New York showed that from the period of 1970 to 1983 an investor could have earned an average return of 29.4% by purchasing stocks that fulfilled Graham's requirement and holding them for one year.



However, Graham made it clear that not all stocks chosen using the NCAVPS formula would have strong returns, and that investors should also diversify their holdings when using this strategy. Graham recommended holding at least 30 stocks.


   Special Considerations   

Current assets, which are used in the net-net approach, are defined as assets that are cash, and assets that are converted into cash within 12 months, including accounts receivable and inventory. As a business sells inventory and customers submit payments, the firm reduces inventory levels and receivables. This ability to collect cash is the true value of a business, according to the net-net approach.



Current assets are reduced by current liabilities, such as accounts payable, to calculate net current assets. Long-term assets and liabilities are excluded from this analysis, which only focuses on cash that the firm can generate within the next 12 months.


   Criticisms of Net-Net   

The reason net-net stocks may not be a great long-term investment is simply because management teams rarely choose to fully liquidate the company at the first sign of trouble. In the short term, a net-net stock may make up the gap between current assets and market cap. However, over the long term, an incompetent management team or a flawed business model can ruin a balance sheet quite rapidly. 



So a net-net stock may find itself in that position because the market has already identified long-term issues that will negatively affect that stock. For example, the rise of Amazon.com has pushed various retailers into net-net positions over time and some investors have profited in the short term. In the long term, however, many of those same stocks have gone under or been acquired at a discount. 



The net-net strategy of finding companies with a market value below its net-net working capital (NNWC)—cash and short-term investments + 75% of accounts receivable + 50% of inventory - total liabilities—may be an effective strategy for small investors. Net-net companies are sought after by day traders which may contribute to their rise in month-to-month valuation.
What Is Net Neutrality?  

Network neutrality ensures that all data on the internet is treated equally by internet service providers (ISPs) and governments, regardless of content, user, platform, application, or device.



For users, net neutrality enables access and transparency of internet content and allows access to all internet services and applications.





Key Takeaways

Network neutrality ensures that all data on the internet is treated equally by ISPs and governments, regardless of content, user, platform, application, or device.Net neutrality policy discussions target issues such as blocking or filtering online content, and preferential internet speeds based on business agreements.U.S. net neutrality laws were enacted by the Obama administration in 2015 and repealed by the Trump administration in 2018.The Net Neutrality and Broadband Justice Act was introduced in July 2022 and would give the FCC tools to protect the free and open internet and create a just broadband future for everyone in the United States.


   Understanding Net Neutrality  

Net neutrality argues that the internet should be accessible to everyone and requires all ISPs to provide the same level of data access and speed to all traffic and traffic to one service or website cannot be blocked or degraded.



Coined by Columbia University law professor Tim Wu, net neutrality is used as a broad label in internet public policy and regulatory discussions concerning online freedom of expression, competition of service, innovation, pricing, and internet traffic management.



Policy discussions both for and against net neutrality regulation target issues such as blocking or filtering online content, preferential internet speeds based on business agreements, throttling to limit user upload and download rates, and market competition and innovation to offer consumers the best choice of ISP.


   Net Neutrality Policies  

The Obama Administration advanced net neutrality legislation in 2015 and enacted rules that barred ISPs such as AT&T and Comcast from deliberately speeding up or slowing down traffic to or from specific websites based on demand or business preferences.



However, in 2017, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), under President Trump, eliminated all net neutrality protections and renounced its authority over broadband, but allowed states to implement their own open internet rules.



In July 2022, Senators Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), and Representative Doris Matsui (CA-06) introduced the Net Neutrality and Broadband Justice Act, legislation that would classify broadband internet access as a telecommunications service under Title II of the Communications Act, giving the FCC the appropriate authority to reinstate net neutrality protections. 



The COVID-19 pandemic highlighted the need for an accessible and just broadband future and the Net Neutrality and Broadband Justice Act gives the FCC the authority to prohibit discriminatory practices like blocking, throttling, paid prioritization online, and the ability to enact effective broadband policies that enhance public safety, increase accessibility and protect consumers. 


   Net Neutrality Discussion  

There are opposing opinions concerning net neutrality and acceptable internet management activities and those which are overreaching and result in discrimination against both users and content providers.


  Arguments for Net Neutrality  

• Network neutrality does not allow ISPs to determine the speed at which consumers can access specific websites or services and smaller companies will be more likely to enter the market and create new services.



• Net neutrality ensures an open internet if mandated by law in the U.S. and prevents broadband providers from practicing data discrimination as a competitive tactic.



• Human rights organizations, consumer rights advocates, and software companies argue that cable companies should be classified as "common carriers," like public utility companies or public transportation providers, who are forbidden by law from discriminating among their users.


  Criticism of Net Neutrality  

• Forcing ISPs to treat all traffic equally the government will ultimately discourage the investment in new infrastructure, and will also create a disincentive for ISPs to innovate.



• Conservative think tanks, hardware companies, and major telecommunication providers are popular critics of net neutrality.



• ISPs argue that tiered prices allow them to remain competitive and generate funds needed for further innovation and expansion of broadband networks, as well as to recoup the costs already invested in broadband.


   Example of Net Neutrality  

Following the 2017 repeal of net neutrality rules, several violations were studied including:



• YouTube and Netflix were slowed by wireless carriers, using a fraction of the available speed.



• Verizon’s throttling of services affected the Santa Clara County Fire Department’s ability to provide emergency services during the California wildfires.



• Comcast introduced new speed limits where videos will be throttled to 480p on all its mobile plans unless customers pay extra.




What Is Net Neutrality and Why Is It Important?
Net neutrality is the concept that states that organizations, such as Internet service providers, should treat all data on the internet equally. Proponents argue it promotes a free and open internet, where users can access content without restriction, provided the content does not violate any laws.




Does the UK Have Net Neutrality?
The European Union (EU) formed regulations to promote and protect an open internet, preventing internet service providers from restricting and blocking users' access to lawful content. Certain exceptions, such as the ability to slow traffic at the request of a court order, apply.




Is There Net Neutrality in India?
In 2017, India developed some of the strictest net neutrality laws in the world. Policymakers and Indian activists, with a desire to promote an open internet and widespread internet access to the nation's citizens, advocated together for net neutrality laws. Service providers who violate these regulations face losing their license to operate.


   The Bottom Line  

Net neutrality seeks to promote an open and free internet, unencumbered by service providers and other organizations. Regulations and policies regarding net neutrality have been debated for several years with policies and changes enacted since 2015.
What Is Net of Tax?  

The term net of tax refers to the amount left after adjusting for the effects of taxes. Net of tax can be a consideration in any situation where taxation is involved. Individuals and businesses often analyze before- and after-tax values to make investment and purchasing decisions. Net of tax is also an important part of expense analysis when reviewing annual tax filings and the net income of businesses. 





Key Takeaways

Net of tax is the amount left after adjusting for the effects of taxes.Net of tax analysis can be important to consider in all situations where taxes may be involved.Some scenarios where the net of tax can be especially important include large asset purchases with sales tax, before and after-tax contributions, and income taxes for individuals or businesses.


   Understanding Net of Tax  

In the financial industry, gross and net are two key terms that refer to before and after paying certain expenses. In general, 'net of' refers to a value found after expenses have been accounted for. Therefore, the net of tax is simply the amount left after taxes have been subtracted.



There can be several scenarios where net of tax is important. Three of the most common are large asset purchases with sales tax, before and after-tax contributions, and an entity's total profit after tax.



Taxes can be a part of asset sales and purchases. Most large assets like cars, trucks, and motorcycles require a sales tax at the time of purchase. Sellers of these items may also be required to pay taxes on capital gains. Property has its own tax rules and is often not subject to sales tax. Many real estate owners can often qualify for tax breaks that help them reduce any capital gains taxes they might have to pay on real estate property sold.



The total taxes on a transaction are subtracted from the income or gains to calculate net of tax.


   Calculating Net of Tax  

For purchases, you'll need to consider the taxes and subtract them from the total amount you paid. For income, you subtract the amount you paid in taxes for the period from the amount you earned.



For example, if you earn $60,000 per year but paid $7,200 in taxes, you made $52,800 net of tax for the year.



Another example might be a company that sells one of its assets — it is usually not responsible for sales tax but may have to pay capital gains taxes. If a company bought a factory for $600,000 and sells it 10 years later for $1 million, it would have realized $400,000 in capital gains. Capital gains are taxed at 15%, so it would generally owe $60,000 in taxes on the sale. It would have profited $340,000 net of tax ($400,000 - $60,000) without considering other expenses for the transaction.


   Net of Tax Strategies  

Net of tax strategies can be important in the investment and financial planning world. Since investors must pay taxes on their capital gains, many strategies are deployed to reduce or avoid the impact of taxes.


  Tax Advantaged Investing  

There are several investments and investment vehicles labeled as tax-advantaged. Municipal bonds are one of the most common tax-advantaged investments, with most of the asset class offering no federal tax on gains.



Investors can also choose to hold assets for more than one year to pay a reduced long-term capital gains tax versus the short-term capital gains rate, which adds the gains to the investor's income if they meet the income requirements. Moreover, some investors may invest to avoid alternative minimum taxes (AMT), which can apply to any investor but usually are a factor for taxpayers who itemize or those with higher net worth.   


  Retirement Accounts  

Before and after-tax investing or contributions can also be important for many investors. Any before-tax contribution lowers the value of taxable income. Any after-tax contribution is considered to be net of tax with taxes already subtracted.



Investing in 401ks or individual retirement accounts (IRAs) is often done with before or after-tax contributions. 401ks and traditional IRAs are often paid into from pre-tax dollars, which helps to lower an investor’s taxable payroll income. Effectively, these types of vehicles tax the investor at the time of withdrawal. Alternatively, Roth IRAs are invested with after-tax dollars. Thus, Roth IRAs are not taxed at the time of withdrawal.



Roth IRA accounts can also provide unique opportunities to invest without taxation. For instance, if you had a Roth IRA account with $100,000 in stocks and $100,000 in bonds, it's possible to sell stocks and bonds within the account without ever paying taxes on gains when you make a withdrawal as long as you meet the criteria for a qualified distribution.


  Employer Benefits  

Some companies may also offer tax-advantaged benefits like pre-tax deductions for purchasing transportation cards as part of their employee benefit plans. Any pre-tax deductions for regular expenses can be helpful because they lower the taxable amount and increase net of tax values.


   Net of Tax and Income  

Analyzing gross versus net income for an annual tax year is often an important scenario involving net of tax consideration. Overall, individuals and businesses can take expense deductions that reduce their taxable income. Entities may also take credits that reduce any tax they owe. Both individuals and businesses make regular tax payments throughout the year, which should also be monitored to ensure optimal net of tax earnings.



Individuals will have the following annual income tax rates for the 2022 tax year (filed in 2023):












 
 Single
Married Filing Jointly
Married Filing Separately
Head of Household


10%
Less than $10,275
Less than $20,550 
Less than $10,275
Less than $14,650 


12% 
$10,275
$20,550 
 $10,275
$55,900 


22% 
$41,775
$83,550 
 $41,775
$89,050 


24% 
$89,075
$178,150 
 $89,075
$170,050 


32% 
$170,050
$431,900 
 $170,050
$215,950 


35% 
$215,950 
$431,900 
 $215,950 
$539,900 








21%

The annual tax rate generally assessed on corporations.



At the end of the tax year, when entities file their tax returns, certain deductions or credits can help to reduce the taxes they owe. Arriving at the total net of tax figure requires subtracting all the income taxes paid throughout the year from the gross income received.



If you receive a refund at tax time, this can be a type of reimbursement for taxes already withheld. Your refund then offsets your net of tax income. In general, individuals and businesses usually seek to take advantage of as many tax deductions and credits as possible to reduce the total taxes paid and increase their annual net of tax value.




Is Net of Tax Before or After?
Net of tax is what remains after all taxes have been subtracted from your gross pay or income.




Does Net Means Including or Excluding?
"Net" refers to the amount left over after reducing (including) a specific amount in the calculation. Net of taxes means income after taxes.




How Do I Calculate Net of Tax?
The easiest way is to subtract what you've paid in taxes from what you've earned.


   The Bottom Line  

Net of taxes is the amount of money you have left after subtracting taxes. It's generally used by businesses or investors who are measuring available capital to make decisions that affect their company or investments. Individuals can use it to learn how much they've earned or spent after accounting for taxes paid.
What Is Net Operating Income (NOI)?  

Net operating income (NOI) is a calculation used to analyze the profitability of income-generating real estate investments. NOI equals all revenue from the property, minus all reasonably necessary operating expenses.



NOI is a before-tax figure, appearing on a property’s income and cash flow statement, that excludes principal and interest payments on loans, capital expenditures, depreciation, and amortization. When this metric is used in other industries, it is referred to as “EBIT,” which stands for “earnings before interest and taxes.”





Key Takeaways

Net operating income measures an income-producing property's profitability before adding in any costs from financing or taxes.To calculate NOI, subtract all operating expenses incurred on a property from all revenue generated on the property.The operating expenses used in the NOI metric can be manipulated if a property owner defers or accelerates certain income or expense items.The NOI metric does not include capital expenditures.NOI will indicate to a property owner if renting a property is worth the expense of owning and maintaining it.












Investopedia / Jessica Olah


   Understanding Net Operating Income (NOI)  

Net operating income is a valuation method used by real estate professionals to determine the precise value of their income-producing properties. To calculate NOI, the property's operating expenses must be subtracted from the income a property produces.



In addition to rental income, a property might also generate revenue from amenities such as parking structures, vending machines, and laundry facilities. Operating expenses include the costs of running and maintaining the building, including insurance premiums, legal fees, utilities, property taxes, repair costs, and janitorial fees. Capital expenditures, such as costs for a new air-conditioning system for the entire building, are not included in the calculation.



NOI helps real estate investors determine the capitalization rate, which in turn helps them calculate a property’s value, thus allowing them to compare different properties they may be considering buying or selling.



For financed properties, NOI is also used in the debt coverage ratio (DCR), which tells lenders and investors whether a property’s income covers its operating expenses and debt payments. NOI is also used to calculate the net income multiplier, cash return on investment, and total return on investment.


   How to Calculate Net Operating Income (NOI)  

To calculate net operating income, subtract operating expenses from the revenue generated by a property. Revenue from real estate includes rental income, parking fees, service changes, vending machines, laundry machines, and so on.



Operating expenses include all of the costs associated with operating the property. These include property management fees, insurance, utilities, property taxes, repairs, and maintenance.


  NOI Formula  
















Net operating income


=


R


R


−


O


E
















where:
















R


R


=


real estate revenue
















O


E


=


operating expenses







\begin{aligned} &\text{Net operating income} = RR - OE \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &RR=\text{real estate revenue}\\ &OE=\text{operating expenses}\\ \end{aligned}


​Net operating income=RR−OEwhere:RR=real estate revenueOE=operating expenses​



As an example, let's assume the below information was the profile of a particular condo building that an owner was renting out.



Revenue:



Rental income: $20,000Parking fees: $5,000Laundry machines: $1,000



Total Revenues = $26,000



Now, let's assume the operating expenses of the condo building are as follows:



Operating Expenses:



Property management fees: $1,000Property taxes: $5,000Repair and maintenance: $3,000Insurance: $1,000



Total Operating Expenses = $10,000



The net operating income (NOI) in this example would be $26,000 - $10,000 = $16,000.


   Components of NOI  

Based on the formula above, the primary components of NOI are total revenues and total operating expenses. The total revenue includes all of the income from a real estate property, not just the rent. In some buildings, that may include the additional income from renting out parking or storage spaces, or the revenue from on-site vending machines or laundry services.



The operating expenses represent the total costs associated with the rental property. In addition to maintenance and repairs, it also includes the costs of taxes and insurance, property management fees, and any utilities that are not covered by the tenants.


   Net Operating Income vs. Gross Operating Income  

NOI is different from the gross operating income. In real estate, this represents the total potential income from a property, minus any lost income due to vacancies. The net operating income is the gross operating income, minus operating expenses.



Net operating income is useful in estimating the potential income from an investment property. However, it does not account for some potential costs, such as income taxes or mortgage amortization.


   NOI and Cap Rate  

Net operating income is used to calculate the capitalization rate, a measure of the profitability of an investment property in relation to the total cost. The cap rate is calculated by dividing the NOI by the total cost of a property.



Expressed as a percentage, the capitalization rate represents the investment returns from different properties. Investors use cap rates to compare the returns of different properties.


   Example of NOI  

Let us assume that you own a property that annually pulls in $120,000 in revenues and incurs $80,000 in operating expenses. In this circumstance, it will have a resulting NOI of $40,000 ($120,000 - $80,000). If the total is negative, where operating expenses are higher than revenues, the result is called a net operating loss (NOL).



Creditors and commercial lenders rely heavily on NOI to determine the income generation potential of the property to be mortgaged, even more than they factor an investor's credit history into their decisions. Simply put: this metric helps lenders fundamentally assess the initial value of the property by forecasting its cash flows.






NOI is used to determine the capitalization rate of a property, also known as the return on investment (ROI) in real estate. It divides NOI by the purchase price.



If a property is deemed profitable, the lenders also use this figure to determine the size of the loan they’re willing to make. On the other hand, if the property shows a net operating loss, lenders are likely to reject the borrower's mortgage application, outright.



Property owners can manipulate their operating expenses by deferring certain expenses while accelerating others. NOI can also be increased by raising rents and other fees, while simultaneously decreasing reasonably necessary operating expenses.



As an example of the latter, consider a scenario where an apartment owner waives a tenant’s yearly $12,000 rent, in exchange for that renter acting as a property manager. If the apartment owner would normally pay a building manager a $30,000 salary, they may consequently subtract the “reasonably necessary” cost of $30,000 from revenue, rather than the actual cost of $12,000.




What Is the Formula for Calculating NOI?
The formula for calculating NOI is as follows:NOI = real estate revenue - operating expenses




What Is the Difference Between Net Income and Net Operating Income?
Net operating income is revenue less all operating expenses while net income is revenue less all expenses, including operating expenses and non-operating expenses, such as taxes.




What Is a Good Net Operating Income Percentage?
NOI is not a percentage but rather a number that takes into consideration the revenues and expenses of a property. It can be compared to the entire value of the property if that property had been paid fully in cash. In this case, the higher the net operating income to property price percentage, the better.


   The Bottom Line  

Net operating income (NOI) is a commonly used figure to assess the profitability of a property. The calculation involves subtracting all operating expenses on the property from all the revenue generated from the property. The higher the revenues and the smaller the expenses, the more profitable a property is. This tells the owner if the income generated from owning and maintaining the property is worth the cost.
What Is Net Operating Loss (NOL)?  

A net operating loss (NOL) occurs when a company’s allowable deductions exceed its taxable income within a tax period. The NOL can generally be used to offset a company’s tax payments in other tax periods through an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) tax provision called a loss carryforward.



NOL tax laws have undergone significant changes in recent years. Net operating losses in 2021 or later may not be carried back, and NOL carryforwards are limited to 80% of the taxable income in any one tax period.





Key Takeaways

A net operating loss exists if a company’s deductions exceed taxable income.An NOL can benefit a company by reducing taxable income in future tax years.The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) made significant changes to NOL rules.NOLs may now be carried forward indefinitely until the loss is fully recovered, but they are limited to 80% of the taxable income in any one tax period.The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act removed the restrictions on tax loss carryback for tax years 2018, 2019, and 2020.Net operating losses in 2021 or later may not be carried back and must be carried forward indefinitely.


   How a Net Operating Loss (NOL) Works  

A net operating loss can be carried forward to offset taxable income in future years to reduce a company’s future tax liability. The purpose behind this tax provision is to allow some form of tax relief when a company loses money in a tax period. The IRS recognizes that some companies’ business profits are cyclical in nature and not in line with a standard tax year.



NOL carryforwards are recorded as an asset on the company’s general ledger. They offer a benefit to the company in the form of future tax liability savings. A deferred tax asset is created for the NOL carryforward, which is offset against net income in future years. The deferred tax asset account is drawn down each year, not to exceed 80% of net income in any one of the subsequent years, until the balance is exhausted.



A farming business, for example, may have significant profits and a large tax payment in one year, then incur an NOL in the next, followed by another profitable year. To smooth the tax burden, the loss carryforward provision allows for the NOL in the second year to offset taxes due in the third year.


   How to Calculate Net Operating Loss (NOL)  

Net operating loss is calculated by subtracting allowable tax deductions from taxable income.



If the resulting figure is negative, there’s a net operating loss. When this happens, the business can carry some of its tax deductions forward to years when it has a profit.






A net operating loss, sometimes called a net loss, appears on the company’s bottom line or income statement.


   Net Operating Loss (NOL) Tax Law Changes  

Net operating loss has been subject to several tax law changes over the past few years.



Before the implementation of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) in 2018, the IRS allowed businesses to carry net operating losses forward 20 years to net against future profits and backward two years for an immediate refund of previous taxes paid. Because the time value of money shows that tax savings in the present are more valuable than in the future, the carryback method was generally used first, followed by the carryforward method. After carrying losses forward for 20 years, any remaining losses expired and could no longer be used to reduce taxable income.


  Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA)  

In 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) made significant changes to the laws regarding net operating losses. The TCJA removed the two-year carryback provision for tax years beginning Jan. 1, 2018, or later, except for certain farming losses, but allowed for an indefinite carryforward period. However, the carryforwards are now limited to 80% of each subsequent year’s net income. If a business creates NOLs in more than one year, they are to be drawn down completely in the order that they were incurred before drawing down another NOL.


  Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act  

The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act effectively suspended the changes made by the TCJA. The pandemic relief bill allowed NOLs arising in tax years beginning in 2018, 2019, and 2020 to be carried back for a period of five years and carried forward indefinitely. However, those special exceptions have now expired.






Losses originating in tax years beginning before Jan. 1, 2018, are still subject to the former tax rules. Any remaining losses will expire after 20 years.


   Net Operating Loss (NOL) Carryforward Example  

Imagine a company that had an NOL of $5 million one year and a taxable income of $6 million the next. The carryover limit of 80% of $6 million is $4.8 million.



The full loss from the first year can be carried forward on the balance sheet to the second year as a deferred tax asset. The loss, limited to 80% of income in the second year, can then be used in the second year as an expense on the income statement. It lowers net income, and therefore the taxable income, for the second year to $1.2 million ($6 million - $4.8 million). A $200,000 deferred tax asset will remain on the balance sheet to be carried into the third year.


   Net Operating Loss (NOL) Carryforward Limitations  

A net operating loss is a valuable asset because it can lower a company’s future taxable income. For this reason, the IRS restricts using an acquired company simply for its NOL’s tax benefits.



Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code states that if a company with an NOL has at least a 50% ownership change, the acquiring company may use only part of the NOL in each concurrent year. However, purchasing a business with a substantial NOL may mean a larger sum of money going to the acquired company’s shareholders than if the acquired company possessed a smaller NOL.




What is a net operating loss (NOL) carryforward?
The net operating loss can generally be used to offset a company’s tax payments in other tax periods through an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) tax provision called a loss carryforward. This offers a benefit to a company in that it can reduce a company’s future tax liability by offsetting taxable income in future years. The purpose behind this tax provision is to allow some form of tax relief when a company loses money in a tax period.




How did the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) affect NOL carryforwards?
For tax years 2018 and later, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) removed the previously allowed two-year carryback provision, except for certain farming losses, but allowed for an indefinite carryforward period. The carryforwards are now limited to 80% of each subsequent year’s net income. If a business creates NOLs in more than one year, they are to be drawn down completely in the order in which they were incurred before drawing down another NOL. The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act suspended the changes made by the TCJA for tax years 2018, 2019, and 2020; however, the new rules apply for 2021 and onward.




How are NOL carryforwards accounted for?
NOL carryforwards are recorded as an asset on the company’s general ledger. A deferred tax asset is created for the NOL carryforward, which is offset against net income in future years. The deferred tax asset account is drawn down each year, not to exceed 80% of net income in any one of the subsequent years, until the balance is exhausted.




What is the 80% NOL rule?
The 80% NOL rule was introduced by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) of 2017 and limits net operating loss carryforwards to 80% of each subsequent year’s net income.


   The Bottom Line  

Posting a loss is never a good thing. However, there is at least one positive to take from it: It’s possible to use a loss to offset taxable income in future years in a process called loss carryforward.



There are some limitations, though. From the 2021 tax year, you can no longer carry back a loss from one year to a previous year. Moreover, carryforwards are now limited to 80% of each subsequent year’s net income.
What Is Net Operating Profit After Tax?  

Net operating profit after tax (NOPAT) is a financial measure that shows how well a company performed through its core operations, net of taxes. NOPAT is frequently used in economic value added (EVA) calculations and is a more accurate look at operating efficiency for leveraged companies. NOPAT does not include the tax savings many companies get because of existing debt.





Key Takeaways

Net operating profit after tax (NOPAT) measures the efficiency of a leveraged company's operations.NOPAT excludes tax savings from existing debt and one-time losses or charges.Mergers and acquisitions analysts use NOPAT to calculate the free cash flow to firm (FCFF) and economic free cash flow to firm.


   Understanding Net Operating Profit After Tax (NOPAT)  

Net operating profit after tax (NOPAT) is a company's potential cash earnings if its capitalization were unleveraged — that is, if it had no debt. The figure doesn't include one-time losses or charges; these don't provide a true representation of a company's true profitability. Some of these charges may include charges relating to a merger or acquisition, which, if considered, don't necessarily show an accurate picture of the company's operations even though they may affect the company's bottom line that year.            



Analysts look at many different measures of performance when assessing a company as an investment. The most commonly used measures of performance are sales and net income growth. Sales provide a top-line measure of performance, but they do not speak to operating efficiency. Net income includes operating expenses but also includes tax savings from debt. Net operating profit after tax is a hybrid calculation that allows analysts to compare company performance without the influence of leverage. In this way, it is a more accurate measure of pure operating efficiency.



To calculate NOPAT, the operating income, also known as the operating profit, must be determined. It includes gross profits less operating expenses, which is comprised of selling, general, and administrative (e.g., office supplies) expenses. The NOPAT formula is



﻿















NOPAT


=


Operating Income


×



(


1


−


Tax Rate


)

















where:
















Operating Income


=


Gross profits less operating expenses








\begin{aligned} &\text{NOPAT} = \text{Operating Income} \times \left ( 1 - \text{Tax Rate} \right ) \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{Operating Income} = \text{Gross profits less operating expenses} \\ \end{aligned}


​NOPAT=Operating Income×(1−Tax Rate)where:Operating Income=Gross profits less operating expenses​﻿


   NOPAT Example  

For example, if EBIT is $10,000 and the tax rate is 30%, the net operating profit after tax is 0.7, which equals $7,000 (calculation: $10,000 x (1 - 0.3)). This is an approximation of after-tax cash flows without the tax advantage of debt. Note that if a company does not have debt, net operating profit after tax is the same as net income after tax. When calculating net operating profit after tax, analysts like to compare against similar companies in the same industry, because some industries have higher or lower costs than others.


   Special Considerations  

In addition to providing analysts with a measure of core operating efficiency without the influence of debt, mergers, and acquisitions analysts use net operating profit after tax. They use this to calculate free cash flow to the firm (FCFF), which equals net operating profit after tax, minus changes in working capital. They also use it in the calculation of economic free cash flow to the firm (FCFF), which equals net operating profit after tax minus capital.



Both measures are primarily used by analysts looking for acquisition targets since the acquirer's financing will replace the current financing arrangement. Another way to calculate net operating profit after tax is net income plus net after-tax interest expense (or net income plus net interest expense) multiplied by 1, minus the tax rate. Analysts may also look at the business' profitability using net operating profit less adjusted taxes (NOPLAT).
What Is Net Operating Profit Less Adjusted Taxes (NOPLAT)?  

Net operating profit less adjusted taxes (NOPLAT) is a financial metric that calculates a firm's operating profits after adjusting for taxes. By using operating income, or income before taking interest payments into account, NOPLAT serves as a better indicator of operating efficiency than net income.





Key Takeaways

The net operating profit less adjusted taxes (NOPLAT) is EBIT after adjusting for deferred taxes.The tax is adjusted to reflect the un-leveraged profits of the firm without taking into account the effects of tax debt. This metric is a profit measurement that includes the costs and tax benefits of debt financing.NOPLAT is used to heavily in M&A, DCF, and LBO models as it enables the calculation of free cash flow. 


   Understanding Net Operating Profit Less Adjusted Taxes (NOPLAT)  

Net operating profit less adjusted taxes (NOPLAT) is a company’s earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) after making adjustments for deferred taxes. The tax is adjusted to reflect the un-leveraged profits of the firm without taking into account the effects of tax debt. In effect, this metric is a profit measurement that includes the costs and tax benefits of debt financing.



The effects of a firm’s capital structure are excluded from this profit measurement tool by removing the monetary costs of equity and debt from the NOPLAT calculation. Since NOPLAT minus cost of capital equals a firm’s economic profit, NOPLAT is also used to calculate Economic Value Added (EVA). The EVA is a measure of management performance to compare economic profit to the total cost of capital.



Using NOPLAT, an analyst or investor is able to look into the profits generated by a company’s core operations after subtracting the income taxes related to the core operations and adding back in taxes that the company had overpaid during the accounting period. Any income generated from non-operating assets are not included, however, profit from invested capital is added.



Operating income—the company’s profit before interest and taxes—shows what the company would earn if it had no debt (no interest expense). Since only operating income is used, the evaluation of a business’ operating efficiency using NOPLAT is not impacted by how much leverage the company has or how much loans it has on its balance sheet given that debt servicing, that is, the interest used to finance debt, negatively impacts a firm’s bottom line and, thus, decreases its tax expense.


   Example of NOPLAT  

NOPLAT for a firm is calculated as operating income x (1 - tax rate). For example, let’s compare the net operating profit less adjusted taxes for Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. (BBBY) for the fiscal years ended March 3, 2018, and Feb. 25, 2017.










 (USD in thousands)
 2018
 2017


 Revenue
 $12,349,301
 $12,215,757


 Cost of Goods Sold
 7,906,286
 7,639,407


 Gross Margin
 4,443,015
 4,576,350


 Selling, general and admin. expenses
 3,681,694
 3,441,140


 Operating Income or EBIT
 761,321
 1,135,210


 Interest expense
 65,661
 69,555


 Income Tax (35.57% and 33.52%, respectively)
 270,802
 380,547


 Net Income
 $424,858
 $685,108


 NOPLAT
 761,321 x (1 – 0.3557) = $490,519
 $1,135,210 x (1 – 0.3352) = $754,633






Source: U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission



The increase in operating costs year-over-year led to a decrease in operating profits from 2017 to 2018 for Bed Bath & Beyond. This, in turn, decreased NOPLAT. Generally, a company that operates efficiently should have a positive NOPAT. An increase in NOPAT can translate into a higher stock price for a publicly-traded company.



NOPLAT is used extensively in mergers and acquisitions (M&A), discounted cash flow (DCF), and leveraged buyout (LBO) models because it enables the calculation of an investment's free cash flow (FCF).
What Is Net Premium?  

Net premium, an insurance industry accounting term, is calculated as the expected present value (PV) of an insurance policy’s benefits, minus the expected PV of future premiums. The net premium calculation does not take into account future expenses associated with maintaining the insurance policy.



Net premiums, along with gross premiums, help an insurance company to determine how much it owes in state taxes.





Key Takeaways

Net premium is an insurance industry accounting term.The formula to arrive at the net premium is the expected present value (PV) of an insurance policy’s benefits minus the expected PV of future premiums. Net premium and gross premium are useful in calculating the amount of state taxes an insurance company needs to pay.Some states' tax laws allow insurance companies to reduce the amount of their taxable gross premium by adding back expenses.


   Understanding Net Premium  

An insurance policy's net premium value differs from the policy’s gross premium value, which does take into account future expenses. The calculated difference between net premium and gross premium equals the expected PV of expense loadings, minus the expected PV of future expenses. Thus, a policy’s gross value will be less than its net value when the value of future expenses is less than the PV of those expense loadings.






Some states' tax laws may allow insurance companies to reduce their gross premium by accounting for expenses and unearned premiums. 


  Net Premium Tax Laws  

Because the net premium calculation does not take into account expenses, companies must determine how much expense they can add without causing a loss. Types of expenses that a company must account for include commissions paid to agents who sell the policies, legal expenses associated with settlements, salaries, taxes, clerical costs, and other general expenses.



Commissions typically vary with the policy’s premium, but general and legal expenses may not be tied to the premium.


  Estimating Allowable Added-Back Expenses  

To estimate allowed expenses, a company can add a fixed amount of expenses to the net premium (called flat loading), add a percentage of the premium, or add a combination of a fixed amount and a percentage of the premium.



When comparing policies with different net premiums, adding a fixed amount will lead to the same proportion of expenses to premiums as long as expenses do vary by proportion to the premium. Determining which method to use depends on the general and legal expenses associated with the policy, as they relate to commissions on the premium.



Most policy calculations leave a margin for contingencies, such as when the money made from investing the premiums turns out to be less than expected.


   Importance of Net Premium  

Net premiums and gross premiums are helpful in figuring out how much an insurance company owes in taxes. State insurance departments often tax insurance companies' income. Tax laws, however, may allow companies to reduce their gross premium by figuring in expenses and unearned premiums.



For example, if the state of Ohio imposes a tax on gross premiums written by Ohio insurance companies, but the tax does not apply to amounts deducted for reinsurance, it also won't apply to gross premiums not earned because the insurance company or policyholder canceled a policy before it expired.




Who Pays Net Premium?
Policyholders pay the premium on an insurance policy. The premiums paid are the costs associated with purchasing insurance for an individual or business.




What Is the Difference Between Net Premiums and Net Premiums Earned?
Net premiums include written premiums with commissions and ceded reinsurance deducted. It is a measure of the dollar amount of policies written. Net premiums earned is the measure of actual dollars received from premiums sold.




What Is a Premium Tax Credit?
A premium tax credit (PTC) is a credit available to families that helps them pay for premiums for health insurance bought through the Health Insurance Marketplace. It is a refundable credit.


   The Bottom Line  

Net premiums are an essential metric for insurance companies to determine how much they owe in taxes in order to be compliant with tax law. Utilizing both net premiums and gross premiums allows an insurance company to better manage its accounting.
What Are Net Premiums Written?  

Net premiums written is the sum of premiums written by an insurance company over the course of a period of time, minus premiums ceded to reinsurance companies, plus any reinsurance assumed. Net premiums written represents how much of the premiums the company gets to keep for assuming risk.





Key Takeaways

Net premiums written is the sum of premiums written, minus the premiums ceded to reinsurance companies, plus any reinsurance assumed.The amount of net premiums written sheds light on how much business an insurance company is doing in a specified period.When calculating net premiums, an insurance company must account for the difference between earned and unearned premiums.The net premium calculation must take into consideration an estimate for future expenses and include that in the premiums charged to customers.


   Understanding Net Premiums Written  

Looking at changes in net premiums written from year to year is one way to gauge the health of an insurance company. The health of an insurance company depends on the types of policies and the risks associated with those policies. An increase in net premiums written represents an increase in new insurance policies written, while a decrease indicates fewer policies originated. Decreases in net premiums written could be the result of competitors entering the market and taking up market share, or it could be because premiums are not competitive with what other companies are offering. Companies that offer policies to a larger pool of people may reduce the possibility of declines.



Insurance companies may receive premiums in one payment up front, but they may also offer installment plans to policyholders. Installment plans provide the insurance company with premiums over the course of the year, which are accounted for differently when determining how much revenue the insurance company brings in.



As policyholders using installment plans make payments, a company categorizes these as net earned premiums. When determining an insurance company’s tax liability on premiums, it is typical for reinsurance premiums paid to be deducted.



Adjusting for liabilities associated with unearned premiums over the course of a year is called net premiums unearned. It is a liability because if the policy is canceled early then the insurer has to return a portion of the original premium. If a company is able to write more premiums over the course of the year, its written premiums will exceed its earned premiums.


   The Net Premium Calculation  

Since the net premium calculation does not take into account expenses, companies must determine the number of expenses that can be added without causing a loss. Types of expenses that a company must take into account include commissions paid to agents who sell the policies, legal expenses associated with settlements, salaries, taxes, clerical expenses, and other general expenses. Commissions typically vary with the policy’s premium, while general and legal expenses may not be tied to the premium.



The calculated difference between net premium and gross premium equals the expected present value of expense loadings (the amount included in the premium charged for administrative costs) minus the expected present value of future expenses. Thus, a policy’s gross value will be less than its net value when the value of future expenses is less than the present value of those expense loadings.
What Is Net Present Value (NPV)?  

Net present value (NPV) is the difference between the present value of cash inflows and the present value of cash outflows over a period of time. NPV is used in capital budgeting and investment planning to analyze the profitability of a projected investment or project.



NPV is the result of calculations that find the current value of a future stream of payments, using the proper discount rate. In general, projects with a positive NPV are worth undertaking while those with a negative NPV are not.






Subscribe to 'Term of the Day' and learn a new financial term every day. Stay informed and make smart financial decisions. Sign up now.





Key Takeaways

Net present value (NPV) is used to calculate the current value of a future stream of payments from a company, project, or investment.To calculate NPV, you need to estimate the timing and amount of future cash flows and pick a discount rate equal to the minimum acceptable rate of return.The discount rate may reflect your cost of capital or the returns available on alternative investments of comparable risk.If the NPV of a project or investment is positive, it means its rate of return will be above the discount rate.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Net Present Value (NPV) Formula  

If there’s one cash flow from a project that will be paid one year from now, then the calculation for the NPV of the project is as follows:


















N


P


V


=



Cash flow



(


1


+


i



)


t





−


initial investment
















where:
















i


=


Required return or discount rate
















t


=


Number of time periods







\begin{aligned} &NPV = \frac{\text{Cash flow}}{(1 + i)^t} - \text{initial investment} \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &i=\text{Required return or discount rate}\\ &t=\text{Number of time periods}\\ \end{aligned}


​NPV=(1+i)tCash flow​−initial investmentwhere:i=Required return or discount ratet=Number of time periods​



If analyzing a longer-term project with multiple cash flows, then the formula for the NPV of the project is as follows:


















N


P


V


=



∑



t


=


0



n





R


t




(


1


+


i



)


t



















where:

















R


t



=


net cash inflow-outflows during a single period 


t
















i


=


discount rate or return that could be earned in alternative investments
















t


=


number of time periods







\begin{aligned} &NPV = \sum_{t = 0}^n \frac{R_t}{(1 + i)^t}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &R_t=\text{net cash inflow-outflows during a single period }t\\ &i=\text{discount rate or return that could be earned in alternative investments}\\ &t=\text{number of time periods}\\ \end{aligned}


​NPV=t=0∑n​(1+i)tRt​​where:Rt​=net cash inflow-outflows during a single period ti=discount rate or return that could be earned in alternative investmentst=number of time periods​



If you are unfamiliar with summation notation, here is an easier way to remember the concept of NPV:








N


P


V


=


Today’s value of the expected cash flows


−


Today’s value of invested cash



NPV = \text{Today’s value of the expected cash flows} - \text{Today’s value of invested cash}


NPV=Today’s value of the expected cash flows−Today’s value of invested cash



   What NPV Can Tell You  

NPV accounts for the time value of money and can be used to compare the rates of return of different projects or to compare a projected rate of return with the hurdle rate required to approve an investment. The time value of money is represented in the NPV formula by the discount rate, which might be a hurdle rate for a project based on a company’s cost of capital. No matter how the discount rate is determined, a negative NPV shows that the expected rate of return will fall short of it, meaning that the project will not create value.



In the context of evaluating corporate securities, the net present value calculation is often called discounted cash flow (DCF) analysis. It’s the method used by Warren Buffett to compare the NPV of a company’s future DCFs with its current price.



The discount rate is central to the formula. It accounts for the fact that, as long as interest rates are positive, a dollar today is worth more than a dollar in the future. Inflation erodes the value of money over time. Meanwhile, today’s dollar can be invested in a safe asset like government bonds; investments riskier than Treasurys must offer a higher rate of return. However it’s determined, the discount rate is simply the baseline rate of return that a project must exceed to be worthwhile.



For example, an investor could receive $100 today or a year from now. Most investors would not be willing to postpone receiving $100 today. However, what if an investor could choose to receive $100 today or $105 in one year? The 5% rate of return might be worthwhile if comparable investments of equal risk offered less over the same period.



If, on the other hand, an investor could earn 8% with no risk over the next year, then the offer of $105 in a year would not suffice. In this case, 8% would be the discount rate.


   Positive NPV vs. Negative NPV  

A positive NPV indicates that the projected earnings generated by a project or investment—discounted for their present value—exceed the anticipated costs, also in today’s dollars. It is assumed that an investment with a positive NPV will be profitable.



An investment with a negative NPV will result in a net loss. This concept is the basis for the net present value rule, which says that only investments with a positive NPV should be considered.






NPV can be calculated using tables, spreadsheets (for example, Excel), or financial calculators.


   How to Calculate NPV Using Excel  

In Excel, there is an NPV function that can be used to easily calculate the net present value of a series of cash flows. The NPV function in Excel is simply NPV, and the full formula requirement is:



=NPV(discount rate, future cash flow) + initial investment















NPV Example, Excel.



In the example above, the formula entered into the gray NPV cell is:



=NPV(green cell, yellow cells) + blue cell



= NPV(C3, C6:C10) + C5


   Example of Calculating NPV  

Imagine a company can invest in equipment that would cost $1 million and is expected to generate $25,000 a month in revenue for five years. Alternatively, the company could invest that money in securities with an expected annual return of 8%. Management views the equipment and securities as comparable investment risks.



There are two key steps for calculating the NPV of the investment in equipment:


  Step 1: NPV of the Initial Investment  

Because the equipment is paid for up front, this is the first cash flow included in the calculation. No elapsed time needs to be accounted for, so the immediate expenditure of $1 million doesn’t need to be discounted.


  Step 2: NPV of Future Cash Flows  

Identify the number of periods (t): The equipment is expected to generate monthly cash flow for five years, which means that there will be 60 periods included in the calculation after multiplying the number of years of cash flows by the number of months in a year.Identify the discount rate (i): The alternative investment is expected to return 8% per year. However, because the equipment generates a monthly stream of cash flows, the annual discount rate needs to be turned into a periodic, or monthly, compound rate. Using the following formula, we find that the periodic monthly compound rate is 0.64%.








Periodic Rate


=


(


(


1


+


0.08



)



1


12




)


−


1


=


0.64


%



\text{Periodic Rate} = (( 1 + 0.08)^{\frac{1}{12}}) - 1 = 0.64\%


Periodic Rate=((1+0.08)121​)−1=0.64%



Assume the monthly cash flows are earned at the end of the month, with the first payment arriving exactly one month after the equipment has been purchased. This is a future payment, so it needs to be adjusted for the time value of money. An investor can perform this calculation easily with a spreadsheet or calculator. To illustrate the concept, the first five payments are displayed in the table below.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



The full calculation of the present value is equal to the present value of all 60 future cash flows, minus the $1 million investment. The calculation could be more complicated if the equipment was expected to have any value left at the end of its life, but in this example, it is assumed to be worthless.








N


P


V


=


−


$


1


,


000


,


000


+



∑



t


=


1



60





25


,


00



0


60





(


1


+


0.0064



)


60






NPV = -\$1,000,000 + \sum_{t = 1}^{60} \frac{25,000_{60}}{(1 + 0.0064)^{60}}


NPV=−$1,000,000+∑t=160​(1+0.0064)6025,00060​​



That formula can be simplified to the following calculation:








N


P


V


=


−


$


1


,


000


,


000


+


$


1


,


242


,


322.82


=


$


242


,


322.82



NPV = -\$1,000,000 + \$1,242,322.82 = \$242,322.82


NPV=−$1,000,000+$1,242,322.82=$242,322.82



In this case, the NPV is positive; the equipment should be purchased. If the present value of these cash flows had been negative because the discount rate was larger or the net cash flows were smaller, then the investment would not have made sense.


   Limitations of NPV  

A notable limitation of NPV analysis is that it makes assumptions about future events that may not prove correct. The discount rate value used is a judgment call, while the cost of an investment and its projected returns are necessarily estimates. The NPV calculation is only as reliable as its underlying assumptions.



The NPV formula yields a dollar result that, though easy to interpret, may not tell the entire story. Consider the following two investment options: Option A with an NPV of $100,000, or Option B with an NPV of $1,000.




NPV Formula

Pros

Considers the time value of money
Incorporates discounted cash flow using a company’s cost of capital
Returns a single dollar value that is relatively easy to interpret
May be easy to calculate when leveraging spreadsheets or financial calculators



Cons

Relies heavily on inputs, estimates, and long-term projections
Doesn’t consider project size or return on investment (ROI)
May be hard to calculate manually, especially for projects with many years of cash flow
Is driven by quantitative inputs and does not consider nonfinancial metrics





   NPV vs. Payback Period  

Easy call, right? How about if Option A requires an initial investment of $1 million, while Option B will only cost $10? The extreme numbers in the example make a point. The NPV formula doesn’t evaluate a project’s return on investment (ROI), a key consideration for anyone with finite capital. Though the NPV formula estimates how much value a project will produce, it doesn’t show if it's an efficient use of your investment dollars.



The payback period, or payback method, is a simpler alternative to NPV. The payback method calculates how long it will take to recoup an investment. One drawback of this method is that it fails to account for the time value of money. For this reason, payback periods calculated for longer-term investments have a greater potential for inaccuracy.



Moreover, the payback period calculation does not concern itself with what happens once the investment costs are nominally recouped. An investment’s rate of return can change significantly over time. Comparisons using payback periods assume otherwise.


   NPV vs. Internal Rate of Return (IRR)  

The internal rate of return (IRR) is calculated by solving the NPV formula for the discount rate required to make NPV equal zero. This method can be used to compare projects of different time spans on the basis of their projected return rates.



For example, IRR could be used to compare the anticipated profitability of a three-year project with that of a 10-year project. Although the IRR is useful for comparing rates of return, it may obscure the fact that the rate of return on the three-year project is only available for three years, and may not be matched once capital is reinvested.




What Does Net Present Value (NPV) Mean?
Net present value (NPV) is a financial metric that seeks to capture the total value of an investment opportunity. The idea behind NPV is to project all of the future cash inflows and outflows associated with an investment, discount all those future cash flows to the present day, and then add them together. The resulting number after adding all the positive and negative cash flows together is the investment’s NPV. A positive NPV means that, after accounting for the time value of money, you will make money if you proceed with the investment.




What Is the Difference Between NPV and Internal Rate of Return (IRR)?
NPV and internal rate of return (IRR) are closely related concepts, in that the IRR of an investment is the discount rate that would cause that investment to have an NPV of zero. Another way of thinking about the differences is that they are both trying to answer two separate but related questions about an investment. For NPV, the question is, “What is the total amount of money I will make if I proceed with this investment, after taking into account the time value of money?” For IRR, the question is, “If I proceed with this investment, what would be the equivalent annual rate of return that I would receive?”




What Is a Good NPV?
In theory, an NPV is “good” if it is greater than zero. After all, the NPV calculation already takes into account factors such as the investor’s cost of capital, opportunity cost, and risk tolerance through the discount rate. And the future cash flows of the project, together with the time value of money, are also captured. Therefore, even an NPV of $1 should theoretically qualify as “good,” indicating that the project is worthwhile. In practice, since estimates used in the calculation are subject to error, many planners will set a higher bar for NPV to give themselves an additional margin of safety.




Why Are Future Cash Flows Discounted?
NPV uses discounted cash flows to account for the time value of money. As long as interest rates are positive, a dollar today is worth more than a dollar tomorrow because a dollar today can earn an extra day’s worth of interest. Even if future returns can be projected with certainty, they must be discounted for the fact that time must pass before they’re realized—time during which a comparable sum could earn interest.
What Is the Net Present Value Of Growth Opportunities (NPVGO)?  

The net present value of growth opportunities (NPVGO) is a calculation of the net present value per share of all future cash flows involved with growth opportunities such as new projects or potential acquisitions. The net present value of growth opportunities is used to determine the intrinsic value per share of these growth opportunities in order to determine how much of the firm's current per-share value is determined by them.



NPVGO is calculated by taking the projected cash inflow, discounted at the firm's cost of capital, less the initial investment or purchase price of the project or asset.


   Understanding Net Present Value of Growth Opportunities (NPVGO)  

A company's share price may be thought of as the value per share of present and future earnings discounted by the company's cost of capital. Using the dividend discount model, NPVGO may be used to segment that value into the portion that is due to its current earnings and the portion that is due to its earnings from its future growth opportunities. Discounting current earnings per share by the cost of capital will give the value per share of the company's current earnings. Discounting the cash flows expected from growth opportunities will give the value per share due to those growth opportunities.



In this way, NPVGO can be used to determine the incremental value of an acquisition or new project. It can be used to negotiate the price of an acquisition or determine any value the market might give to that company’s future growth.



However, NPVGO is based on projections, so it’s important for analysts to exclude nonstandard cash flows, such as earnings based on discontinued operations or earnings based on nonrecurring operations, from those projections. Otherwise, the projections could be skewed. Accurate projections are necessary because they can be so influential in making key business decisions.



Furthermore, the process of determining whether an NPVGO is high or low needs to be undertaken in an industry context. Technology, capital, and other factors that go into calculating the NPVGO of a specific company will depend on the sector in which it operates. Valuations tend to be extremely industry-specific, and industry standards need to be considered when calculating an NPVGO.


   Example of Net Present Value of Growth Opportunities (NPVGO)  

For example, assume that the intrinsic value of a company's stock is $64.17. If a company's cost of capital is 12% and earnings per share are $5, then the value of those current earnings is $5/.12 = $41.67.



If the expected earnings per share from future growth opportunities is $.90, and the growth rate (g) is 8%, then the value of those earnings is $0.90/(.12 - .08) = $22.50.



The intrinsic value per share of the company is the value per share due to current earnings and the value due to future growth opportunities: $41.67 + $22.50 = $64.17.
What is the Net Present Value Rule?  

The net present value rule is the idea that company managers and investors should only invest in projects or engage in transactions that have a positive net present value (NPV). They should avoid investing in projects that have a negative net present value. It is a logical outgrowth of net present value theory.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Understanding the Net Present Value Rule  

According to the net present value theory, investing in something that has a net present value greater than zero should logically increase a company's earnings. In the case of an investor, the investment should increase the shareholder's wealth. Companies may also participate in projects with neutral NPV when they are associated with future intangible and currently immeasurable benefits or where they enable ongoing investments to happen.



Although most companies follow the net present value rule, there are circumstances where it is not a factor. For example, a company with significant debt issues may abandon or postpone undertaking a project with a positive NPV. The company may take the opposite direction as it redirects capital to resolve an immediately pressing debt issue. Poor corporate governance can also cause a company to ignore or miscalculate NPV.


   How the Net Present Value Rule is Used  

Net present value, commonly seen in capital budgeting projects, accounts for the time value of money (TVM). The time value of money is the idea that future money has less value than presently available capital, due to the earnings potential of the present money. A business will use a discounted cash flow (DCF) calculation, which will reflect the potential change in wealth from a particular project. The computation will factor in the time value of money by discounting the projected cash flows back to the present, using a company's weighted average cost of capital (WACC). A project or investment's NPV equals the present value of net cash inflows the project is expected to generate, minus the initial capital required for the project.



During the company's decision-making process, it will use the net present value rule to decide whether to pursue a project, such as an acquisition. If the calculated NPV of a project is negative (< 0), the project is expected to result in a net loss for the company. As a result, and according to the rule, the company should not pursue the project. If a project's NPV is positive (> 0), the company can expect a profit and should consider moving forward with the investment. If a project's NPV is neutral (= 0), the project is not expected to result in any significant gain or loss for the company. With a neutral NPV, management uses non-monetary factors, such as intangible benefits created, to decide on the investment.
What Are Net Proceeds?  

Net proceeds are the amount the seller receives following the sale of an asset after all costs and expenses are deducted from the gross proceeds. Depending on the asset sold, the costs may account for a small percentage of the gross proceeds or a substantial percentage of the gross proceeds. Capital gains taxes are paid on the net proceeds of a sale rather than the gross proceeds.





Key Takeaways

Net proceeds are the amount the seller takes home after selling an asset, minus all costs and expenses that have been deducted from the gross proceeds.The amount that constitutes the net proceeds could be marginal or substantial, depending on the asset that has been sold.Capital gains taxes must be paid on the net proceeds of a sale, not the gross proceeds.


   Understanding Net Proceeds  

Net proceeds are the final amount a seller receives from the sale of an asset after all costs have been taken into consideration. Depending on the asset, the cost can include:



Fees, such as legal and appraisalsExpertise- or technology-related fees Commissions, such as brokerage or technology platforms commissionsAdvertising or digital media costsTaxes Regulatory expenses



It's important to be aware of all of the costs that go into a sale of an asset as it will help determine the appropriate selling price.



One area that commonly impacts net proceeds from a sale is the sale of a house. When calculating net proceeds on a home sale, the outstanding mortgage or other liens on the property, commission for the seller’s agent and the buyer’s agent, excise tax, and other closing costs owed by the seller, are subtracted from the gross sale price of the home. If negative net proceeds result, the seller must provide cash at the time of closing to pay off the mortgage or receive the bank’s approval for a short sale.


   Net Proceeds and Capital Gains Taxes  

Income from selling stocks, mutual funds, property, or other assets is reported on a personal or corporate tax return. Taxes are paid on the asset’s capital gains rather than on its selling price.



When calculating capital gains or losses, the amount paid to acquire the asset, called its basis, must be known. For example, consider an investor who purchases $6,000 in stock and pays a $24 commission. The stock’s basis is $6,024. When an asset is inherited, its basis is the fair market value on the date of the person’s death regardless of the amount paid for the asset.



Net proceeds must be calculated as well. For example, the same investor sells the stock for $8,000 and pays a $32 commission. The net proceeds are $7,968. The basis is subtracted from the asset’s net proceeds. Because $7,968 - $6,024 = $1,944, the capital gain is $1,944.


   Example of Net Proceeds  

As mentioned, selling a home is an area where costs are varied that determine the net proceeds of the sale. Let's say Jim is selling his house for $100,000. With the sale comes many costs that first need to be summed to arrive at total costs.



The costs associated with the sale of the house are:



Real estate agent fee: $5,000Advertising costs: $1,000Closing costs: $6,000Total Costs: $12,000



To arrive at the net proceeds we would subtract the total costs from the sales cost of the house.



Net Proceeds = $100,000 - $12,000 = $88,000
What Is Net Profit Margin?  

The net profit margin, or simply net margin, measures how much net income or profit is generated as a percentage of revenue. It is the ratio of net profits to revenues for a company or business segment.



Net profit margin is typically expressed as a percentage but can also be represented in decimal form. The net profit margin illustrates how much of each dollar in revenue collected by a company translates into profit.





Key Takeaways

Net profit margin measures how much net income is generated as a percentage of revenues received.Net profit margin helps investors assess if a company's management is generating enough profit from its sales and whether operating costs and overhead costs are under control.Net profit margin is one of the most important indicators of a company's overall financial health.


   Understanding Net Profit Margin  

Net profit margin is one of the most important indicators of a company's financial health. By tracking increases and decreases in its net profit margin, a company can assess whether current practices are working and forecast profits based on revenues.



Because companies express net profit margin as a percentage rather than a dollar amount, it is possible to compare the profitability of two or more businesses regardless of size.



This metric includes all factors in a company's operations, including:



Total revenue
Additional income streams
COGS and other operational expenses
Interest expense on debt obligations
Investment income and income from secondary operations 
One-time payments for unusual events such as lawsuits and taxes



Investors can assess if a company's management is generating enough profit from its sales and whether operating costs and overhead costs are being contained.



For example, a company can have growing revenue, but if its operating costs are increasing at a faster rate than revenue, its net profit margin will shrink. Ideally, investors want to see a track record of expanding margins, meaning that the net profit margin is rising over time.



Most publicly traded companies report their net profit margins both quarterly during earnings releases and in their annual reports. Companies that can expand their net margins over time are generally rewarded with share price growth, as share price growth is typically highly correlated with earnings growth.


   Formula and Calculation for Net Profit Margin  









Net profit margin








=




R


−


C


O


G


S


−


E


−


I


−


T



R



∗


100
















=



Net income


R



∗


100









where:








R








=


Revenue










C


O


G


S









=


The cost of goods sold









E








=


Operating and other expenses









I








=


Interest









T








=


Taxes







\begin{aligned} \text{Net profit margin} &= \frac{R - COGS - E - I - T}{R}*100\\ &= \frac{\text{Net income}}{R}*100\\ \textbf{where:}\\ R &= \text{Revenue}\\ COGS &= \text{The cost of goods sold}\\ E &= \text{Operating and other expenses}\\ I &= \text{Interest}\\ T &= \text{Taxes} \end{aligned}


Net profit marginwhere:RCOGSEIT​=RR−COGS−E−I−T​∗100=RNet income​∗100=Revenue=The cost of goods sold=Operating and other expenses=Interest=Taxes​



On the income statement, subtract the cost of goods sold (COGS), operating expenses, other expenses, interest (on debt), and taxes payable.
Divide the result by revenue.
Convert the figure to a percentage by multiplying it by 100.
Alternatively, locate net income from the bottom line of the income statement and divide the figure by revenue. Convert the figure to a percentage by multiplying it by 100.


   Net Profit Margin vs. Gross Profit Margin  

Gross profit margin is the proportion of money left over from revenues after accounting for the cost of goods sold (COGS). COGS measures the cost of raw materials and expenses associated directly with the creation of the company's primary product, not including overhead costs such as rent, utilities, freight, or payroll.



Gross profit margin is the gross profit divided by total revenue and is the percentage of income retained as profit after accounting for the cost of goods. Gross margin is helpful in determining how much profit is generated from the production of a company's goods because it excludes other items such as overhead from the corporate office, taxes, and interest on a debt.



Net profit margin, on the other hand, is a measure of net profit to revenue.






Net income is also called the bottom line for a company as it appears at the end of the income statement.


   Limitations of Net Profit Margin  

Net profit margin can be influenced by one-off items such as the sale of an asset, which would temporarily boost profits. Net profit margin doesn't hone in on sales or revenue growth, nor does it provide insight as to whether management is managing its production costs.



It's best to utilize several ratios and financial metrics when analyzing a company. Net profit margin is typically used in financial analysis along with gross profit margin and operating profit margin.


   Hypothetical Example of Net Profit Margin  

Imagine a company that reports the following numbers on its income statement:



Revenue: $100,000Operating costs: $20,000COGS or cost of goods sold: $10,000Tax liability: $14,000Net profits: $56,000



Net profit margin is thus 0.56 or 56% ($56,000/$100,000) x 100. A 56% profit margin indicates the company earns 56 cents in profit for every dollar it collects.



Let's take a look at another hypothetical example, using the made-up Jazz Music Shop's FY 2025 income statement.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2020



Here, we can gather all of the information we need to plug into the net profit margin equation. We take the total revenue of $6,400 and deduct variable costs of $1,700 as well as fixed costs of $350 to arrive at a net income of $4,350 for the period. If Jazz Music Shop also had to pay interest and taxes, that too would have been deducted from revenues.



The net profit margin is calculated by taking the ratio of net income to revenue. The net profit margin is calculated as follows:



$4,350 / $6,400 = .68 x 100 = 68%


   Real-World Example of Net Profit Margin  

Below is a portion of the income statement for Apple Inc. as reported for the quarter ending on Dec. 29, 2018:



Net sales or revenue was $84.310 billion (highlighted in blue).
Net income was $19.965 billion for the period (highlighted in green). 
Apple's net profit margin is calculated by dividing its net income of $19.965 billion by its total net sales of $84.310 billion. Total net sales are used as the top line for companies that have experienced customer returns of their merchandise, which are deducted from total revenue.
Apple's net profit margin was 23.7% or ($19.965 billion ÷ $84.310 billion x 100).



A net profit margin of 23.7% means that for every dollar generated by Apple in sales, the company kept just shy of $0.24 as profit.















Example of Net profit margin using Apple.
Investopedia 



Source: Apple, Inc.




Why Is the Net Profit Margin Important?
The net profit margin is perhaps the most important measure of a company's overall profitability. It is the ratio of net profits to revenues for a company or business segment. Expressed as a percentage, the net profit margin shows how much profit is generated from every $1 in sales, after accounting for all business expenses involved in earning those revenues. Larger profit margins mean that more of every dollar in sales is kept as profit.




How Can a Company Improve Its Net Profit Margin?
While the average net margin for different industries varies widely, businesses can gain a competitive advantage in general by increasing sales or reducing expenses (or both). Boosting sales, however, often involves spending more money to do so, which equals greater costs.Cutting too many costs can also lead to undesirable outcomes, including losing skilled workers, shifting to inferior materials, or other losses in quality. To reduce the cost of production without sacrificing quality, the best option for many businesses is expansion. Economies of scale refer to the idea that larger companies tend to be more profitable.




How Is Net Margin Different From Other Profit Margin Measures?
Net profit margin takes into account all costs involved in a sale, making it the most comprehensive and conservative measure of profitability. Gross margin, on the other hand, simply looks at the costs of goods sold (COGS) and ignores things such as overhead, fixed costs, interest expenses, and taxes. Operating margin further takes into account all operating costs but still excludes any non-operating costs.




What Are Some High- and Low-Profit Margin Industries?
High-profit margin sectors typically include those in the services industry, as there are fewer assets involved in production than an assembly line. Similarly, software or gaming companies may invest initially while developing a particular software/game and cash in big later by simply selling millions of copies with very few expenses.Operations-intensive businesses such as transportation, which may have to deal with fluctuating fuel prices, drivers’ perks and retention, and vehicle maintenance, usually have lower profit margins. Automobiles also have low-profit margins, as profits and sales are limited by intense competition, uncertain consumer demand, and high operational expenses involved in developing dealership networks and logistics.


   The Bottom Line  

The net profit margin measures the profits of a business as a percentage of total revenue. Along with other metrics, the net margin is used to make data-based decisions about how effectively a company uses its revenue. Each industry has different profit margins, so it is important to consider all possible factors when evaluating the net margins of different companies.
What Is Net Realizable Value (NRV)?  

Net realizable value (NRV) is a valuation method, common in inventory accounting, that considers the total amount of money an asset might generate upon its sale, less a reasonable estimate of the costs, fees, and taxes associated with that sale or disposal.





Key Takeaways

Net realizable value (NRV) accounts for the value of an asset in terms of the amount it would receive upon sale, minus selling costs.NRV is a conservative method used by accountants to ensure the value of an asset isn't overstated.It is a common method used to evaluate accounts receivable and inventory, and is also used in cost accounting.Downsides to NRV include the fact that assumptions by management may never come to fruition as well as it being a more complicated way of considering asset values.NRV is used in both generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) as well as international financial reporting standards (IFRS).












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   Understanding Net Realizable Value (NRV)  

NRV is a common method used to evaluate an asset's value for inventory accounting. Two of the largest assets that a company may list on a balance sheet are accounts receivable and inventory. NRV is used to value both of these asset types. NRV is a valuation method used in both generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and international financial reporting standards (IFRS).



GAAP requires that certified public accountants (CPAs) apply the principle of conservatism to their accounting work. Many business transactions allow for judgment or discretion when choosing an accounting method. The principle of conservatism requires accountants to choose the more conservative approach to all transactions. This means that the accountant should use the accounting method that generates less profit and does not overstate the value of assets.






NRV is a conservative method for valuing assets because it estimates the true amount the seller would receive net of costs if the asset were to be sold.


   Formula and Calculation of Net Realizable Value  

The formula for determining net realizable value (NRV) is:



NRV = Expected Selling Price - Total Production and Selling Costs



The expected selling price is calculated as the number of units produced multiplied by the unit selling price. This is often reduced by product returns or other items that may reduce gross revenue. In regards to accounts receivable, this is equal to the gross amount to be collected without considering an allowance for doubtful accounts.



The total production and selling costs are the expenses required to facilitate the trade. When using NRV calculations for cost accounting, these expenses are the separable costs that can be identified or allocated to each good. Alternatively, this "expense" may be the anticipated write-off amount for receivables or expenses incurred to collect this debt.


   What Affects Net Realizable Value  

There are often four primary factors that affect a company's net realizable value: collectability, economic conditions, obsolescence, and market demand.


  Collectability  

The ultimate goal of NRV is to recognize how much proceeds from the sale of inventory or receipt of accounts receivable will actually be received. For this reason, one of the primary drivers of NRV is collectability. This relates to the creditworthiness of the clients a business chooses to engage in business with. Companies that prioritize customers with higher credit strength will have higher NRV.



Collectability also pertains to a company's internal processes. Depending on the industry the company is it, the company may decide to accept a certain amount of uncollectable sales. The company may also lack the resources to pursue delinquent receivables.


  Broad Economic Conditions  

As economies thrive, clients often have more money at their disposal and are able to pay higher prices. They are also able to pay on time and potentially purchase more goods. Alternatively, when the economy is down, clients may pass on orders or find it more difficult to make full payments.



This is especially true during inflationary periods when the Federal Reserve is interested in raising rates. As prices are elevated, the government may choose to combat rising prices. However, this leads to a contracting economy that increases unemployment. In either situation (high inflation or high unemployment), it may be more difficult for clients or businesses to find budget for additional goods to buy.


  Obsolescence  

As technology evolves and production capabilities expand, unsold inventory items may quickly lose their luster and become obsolete. This is true for even recently manufactured products; companies not in tune with market conditions may be producing goods that are already outdated. Broadly speaking, companies must often widely mark-down products that are obsolete to garner any interest in the product; as a result, the company runs the risk of needing to sell goods at or below cost to retain any value from the outdated goods.


  Market Demand  

Loosely related to obsolescence, market demand refers to customer preferences, tastes, and other influencing factors. In addition to a good becoming outdated, broad markets may be interested in substitute products, advanced products, or cheaper products. Competition always runs the risk of supplanting a good's market position, even if both goods are still relevant and highly functioning.


   Uses for Net Realizable Value  
  Accounts Receivable  

An accounts receivable balance is converted into cash when customers pay their outstanding invoices, but the balance must be adjusted down for clients who don’t make payments. NRV for accounts receivable is calculated as the full receivable balance less an allowance for doubtful accounts, which is the dollar amount of invoices that the company estimates to be bad debt.


  Inventory  

GAAP rules previously required accountants to use the lower of cost or market (LCM) method to value inventory on the balance sheet. If the market price of inventory fell below the historical cost, the principle of conservatism required accountants to use the market price to value inventory. Market price was defined as the lower of either replacement cost or NRV.



The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the independent organization that establishes GAAP standards, issued an update in 2015 to its code that changed the inventory accounting requirements for companies, provided they do not use last-in-first-out (LIFO) or retail methods. Companies must now use the lower cost or NRV method, which is more consistent with IFRS rules. In essence, the term "market" has been replaced with "net realizable value."



When a company buys inventory, it may incur extra costs to store or prepare the goods for sale. The costs associated with storing inventory are referred to as the carrying cost of inventory. Assume, for example, a retailer purchases large pieces of expensive furniture as inventory, and the company has to build a display case and hire a contractor to carefully move the furniture to the buyer's home. These extra costs are subtracted from the selling price to compute the NRV.


  Cost Accounting  

Cost accounting is a heuristic method used by some firms to account internally for costs associated with various business activities. NRV is used to account for such costs when two products are produced together in a joint costing system until the products reach a split-off point. Each product is then produced separately after the split-off point.



NRV is used to allocate previous joint costs to each of the products. This allows managers to calculate the total cost and assign a sale price to each product individually. It also allows managers to better plan and understand whether to stop production at the split-off point or if it is more advantageous to continue processing the raw material.






Be aware the NRV can be used for external reporting (inventory and accounts receivable) purposes as well as internal reporting (cost accounting) purposes.


   What Net Realizable Value Can Tell You  

Because it is used in several different situations, net realizable values can tell analysts and accountants several important pieces of information.



NRV tells you net proceeds. This is especially important for companies cognizant of cash flow with urgent capital needs. If a company is not going to collect its gross proceeds amount, it is important for the company to know the true amount of cash the company can expect.
NRV tells you operating risks. Whenever net proceeds are reduced, a company must be aware of the situation, why proceeds are reduced, how the company is at risk to lose proceeds, and what can be done to avoid this exposure
NRV tells you transaction costs. A company may be satisfied with the sale price of an asset. However, there may be residual costs such as commissions or fees a company must plan for and recognize will impact net proceeds.
NRV tells you the creditworthiness of your clients. When your gross accounts receivable balance is materially reduced by the allowance for doubtful accounts, this is an indicator for a company to review its credit-checking process to ensure business is only performed with clients who can pay.
NRV tells you the value of certain products. When used in cost accounting, NRV is applied to joint products to separate costs between each good.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Net Realizable Value  

When inventory is measured as the lower of cost or net realizable value, it is embracing the accounting principle of conservatism. Though NRV may be the most dramatically reduced valuation for inventory, the aim is to reduce the carrying value of goods to not overstate the income statement.



Another advantage of NRV is its applicability, as the valuation method can often be used across a wide range of inventory items. Often, a company will assess a different NRV for each product line, then aggregate the totals to arrive at a company-wide valuation.



There are several glaring disadvantages to using NRV, however. First, the approach requires substantial assumptions from management about the future of the product. For goods clouded with uncertainty, it may be nearly impossible to predict obsolescence, product defects, customer returns, pricing changes, or regulation. For this reason, NRV assumptions may lead to incorrect valuations.



Application and analysis of NRV may also be complicated. Different companies may be exposed to different risks and business impacts that are factored into NRV calculations differently. For example, certain industries may necessitate dealing with customers that have riskier credit profiles, thus forcing the company to experience larger write-off allowances.




Net Realizable Value

Pros

Embraces conservatism to not overstate a company's financial statement
More accurately the future economic benefits of certain situations
Can be used across individual inventory items, then aggregated



Cons

Requires substantial assumptions from management that may never actually materialize
Takes time to calculate different options, then select the lower of cost of or NRV
May reduce the comparability of the financial statements for different companies if NRV calculations widely vary





   Example of Net Realizable Value  

As part of its 2021 annual report public filing. Volkswagen disclosed ownership of €43.7 billion of inventory, a very slight decline from the €43.8 billion of inventory carried at the end of December 2020.



As part of this filing, Volkswagen disclosed the nature of the calculation of its inventory. In compliance with prevailing accounting regulation, Volkswagen considered net realizable value when determining its inventory value.















Volkswagen, 2021 Annual Report.



Other companies may be a little more transparent in how they use NRV in determining their inventory level. As part of its 2021 annual report, Shell reported $25.3 billion of inventory, up more than 25% from the year prior.



The company states that as part of its calculation of inventory, the company wrote-down $592 million. This means the company's net realized value of its inventory was less than its cost. Shell also indicated a similar write-down to NRV occurred in 2020.















Shell, 2021 Annual Report.




How Do You Calculate Net Realizable Value?
Net realizable value (NRV) is is a common method used to evaluate an asset's value for inventory accounting. It is found by determining the expected selling price of an asset and all the costs associated with the eventual sale of the asset, and then calculating the difference between these two. To put it in formulaic terms, NRV = Expected selling price - Total production and selling costs.




What Are Some Examples of NRV Usage?
NRV for accounts receivable is calculated as the full receivable balance less an allowance for doubtful accounts, which is the dollar amount of invoices that the company estimates to be bad debt.NRV is also used to account for costs when two products are produced together in a joint costing system until the products reach a split-off point. Each product is then produced separately after the split-off point, and NRV is used to allocate previous joint costs to each of the products.GAAP rules previously required accountants to use the lower of cost or market (LCM) method to value inventory on the balance sheet. This was updated in 2015 to where companies must now use the lower of cost or NRV method, which is more consistent with IFRS rules. In essence, the term "market" has been replaced with "net realizable value."




What Is Accounting Conservatism?
Accounting conservatism is a principle that requires company accounts to be prepared with caution and high degrees of verification. These bookkeeping guidelines must be followed before a company can make a legal claim to any profit. The general concept is to factor in the worst-case scenario of a firm’s financial future. Uncertain liabilities are to be recognized as soon as they are discovered. In contrast, revenues can only be recorded when they are assured of being received.




What Is Meant by Net Realizable Value of Accounts Receivable?
NRV for accounts receivable is a reference to the net amount of accounts receivable that will be collected. This is the gross amount of accounts receivable less any allowance for doubtful accounts reducing the total amount of A/R by the amount the company does not expect to receive. NRV for accounts receivable is a conservative method of reducing A/R to only the proceeds the company thinks they will get.


   The Bottom Line  

Net realizable value is the net amount a company is able to sell an asset for or collect as part of an existing agreement. NRV is calculated as the difference between the gross proceeds and associated transaction costs. Because NRV considers items that decrease the net benefit a company receives, it is often considered a conservative accounting approach. For this reason, it is often acceptable for use in various situations under both GAAP and IFRS accounting.
What Is Net Receivables and How Is It Calculated?  

Net receivables are the total money owed to a company by its customers minus the money owed that will likely never be paid. Net receivables are often expressed as a percentage, and a higher percentage indicates a business has a greater ability to collect from its customers. For example, if a company estimates that 2% of its sales are never going to be paid, net receivables equal 98% (100% – 2%) of the accounts receivable (AR).





Key Takeaways

A company's net receivables are the total amount of money its customers owe minus what the company estimates will likely never be paid.Companies use net receivables to measure the effectiveness of their collections process and to make projections of anticipated cash flows.The allowance for doubtful accounts is a company's estimate of the amount of the accounts receivable it expects it will have to write-off as uncollectible.Companies can improve their net receivables by restricting the credit they issue to customers and by implementing efficient collection procedures.


   Understanding Net Receivables  

Companies use net receivables to measure the effectiveness of their collections process. They also utilize it when making forecasts to project anticipated cash inflows.



Net receivables arise when companies grant credit to their customers. A company's accounts receivable represents the line of credit it extends to its customers for the goods or services it provides. This credit line requires the customer to make payments for an agreed-upon amount due at a specific date.



This practice carries inherent credit and default risk, as the company does not receive payment upfront for the goods or services it sells. A company can improve its cash collections by tightening control over credit issued to customers, maintaining efficient collection procedures, and performing collection procedures promptly.






A company can improve its cash collections by tightening control over credit issued to customers, maintaining efficient collection procedures, and performing collection procedures promptly.


   Allowance for Doubtful Accounts  

The allowance for doubtful accounts is a company's estimate of the amount of the accounts receivable it anticipates will not be collectible and will need to be recorded as a write-off. This estimate is subtracted from the gross amount of outstanding accounts receivable. The two main methods for estimating the allowance for doubtful accounts are the percentage of sales method and the accounts receivable aging method.



Also, a specific identification method may be used in which each debt is individually evaluated regarding the likelihood of being collected.



Net receivables are shown as an aggregated total on the company's balance sheet. The gross receivables are listed first and are followed by the allowance for doubtful accounts. The allowance for doubtful accounts is a contra-asset account, as it reduces the balance of an asset.


   Net Receivables Aging Schedule  

Net receivables may be calculated using an aging schedule. This schedule groups receivables by outstanding payment date ranges. The aging schedule may calculate the uncollectible receivables by applying various default rates to each outstanding date range.



Alternatively, it can simply calculate the net receivables by applying the estimated collection rate for each range. The concept behind an aging schedule is to apply different collectibility rates to different receivables based on age. As a receivable gets older, it generally becomes harder to collect.


   Special Considerations  

Because all future receipts of cash, as well as defaults, are not known, net receivables represent an estimated amount. This is largely contingent on the estimated amount of uncollectible accounts. Management thus has the potential to manipulate the value of net receivables by adjusting the allowance for doubtful accounts.



In addition, a company's net receivables are highly subject to general economic conditions. Regardless of the entity's procedures, the figure tends to worsen as financial conditions worsen in the general economy.
What Is Net Sales?  

Net sales is the sum of a company's gross sales minus its returns, allowances, and discounts. Net sales calculations are not always transparent externally. They can often be factored into the reporting of top line revenues reported on the income statement. 












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding Net Sales  

The income statement is the financial report that is primarily used when analyzing a company’s revenues, revenue growth, and operational expenses. The income statement is broken out into three parts which support analysis of direct costs, indirect costs, and capital costs. The direct costs portion of the income statement is where net sales can be found.



Companies may not provide a lot of external transparency in the area of net sales. Net sales may also not apply to every company and industry because of the distinct components of its calculation. Net sales is the result of gross revenue minus applicable sales returns, allowances, and discounts. Costs associated with net sales will affect a company’s gross profit and gross profit margin but net sales does not include cost of goods sold which is usually a primary driver of gross profit margins.



If a business has any returns, allowances, or discounts then adjustments are made to identify and report net sales. Companies may report gross sales, then net sales, and cost of sales in the direct costs portion of the income statement or they may just report net sales on the top line and then move on to costs of goods sold. Net sales do not account for cost of goods sold, general expenses, and administrative expenses which are analyzed with different effects on income statement margins.





Key Takeaways

Net sales is the result of gross sales minus returns, allowances, and discounts.If net sales are externally reported they will be notated in the direct costs portion of the income statement.Changes in net sales will effect a company’s gross profit and gross profit margin but net sales do not include costs of goods sold.


   Costs Affecting Net Sales  

Gross sales are the total unadjusted sales of a company. For companies using accrual accounting, they are booked when a transaction takes place. For companies using cash accounting they are booked when cash is received. Some companies may not have any costs that will require a net sales calculation but many companies do. Sales returns, allowances, and discounts are the three main costs that can affect net sales. All three costs generally must be expensed after a company books revenue. As such, each of these types of costs will need to be accounted for across a company’s financial reporting in order to ensure proper performance analysis.


  Sales Returns  

Sales returns are common in the retail business. These companies allow a buyer to return an item within a certain number of days for a full refund. This can create some complexity in financial statement reporting.



Companies that allow sales returns must provide a refund to their customer. A sales return is usually accounted for either as an increase to a sales returns and allowances contra-account to sales revenue or as a direct decrease in sales revenue. As such, it debits a sales returns and allowances account (or the sales revenue account directly) and credits an asset account, typically cash or accounts receivable. This transaction carries over to the income statement as a reduction in revenue.



In many cases the sales return can be resold. This requires a company to make additional notations to account for the item as inventory.


  Allowances  

Allowances are less common than returns but may arise if a company negotiates to lower an already booked revenue. If a buyer complains that goods were damaged in transportation or the wrong goods were sent in an order, a seller may provide the buyer with a partial refund. In this case, the same types of notations would be required. A seller would need to debit a sales returns and allowances account and credit an asset account. This journal entry carries over to the income statement as a reduction in revenue.



Net sales allowances are usually different than write-offs which may also be referred to as allowances. A write-off is an expense debit that correspondingly lowers an asset inventory value. Companies adjust for write-offs or write-downs on inventory due to losses or damages. These write-offs occur before a sale is made rather than after.


  Discounts  

Many companies working on an invoicing basis will offer their buyers discounts if they pay their bills early. One example of discount terms would be 1/10 net 30 where a customer gets a 1% discount if they pay within 10 days of a 30-day invoice. Sellers don’t account for a discount unless a customer pays early so notations must be retroactive.



Discounts are notated similarly to returns and allowances. A seller will debit a sales discounts contra-account to revenue and credit assets. The journal entry then lowers the gross revenue on the income statement by the amount of the discount.


   Net Sales Considerations  

If a company provides full disclosure of its gross sales vs. net sales it can be a point of interest for external analysis. If the difference between a company’s gross and net sales is higher than an industry average, the company may be offering higher discounts or realizing an excessive amount of returns compared to industry competitors.



Companies will typically strive to maintain or beat industry averages. Often returns can be quickly resold without creating issues. Allowances are typically the result of transporting problems which may prompt a company to review its shipping tactics or storage methods. Companies offering discounts may choose to lower or increase their discount terms to become more competitive within their industry.
What Is Net Settlement?  

Net settlement is a bank's routine resolution of the day's transactions at the end of the business day.



Since many or most bank transactions are now sent electronically, this is no longer a matter of counting the cash in the drawer. Instead, the bank has to add up all of their electronic credits and debits.



The bank then sends its settlement file to a Federal Reserve Bank, which credits it with any funds that are due to be paid to it via the interbank settlement system.﻿﻿


   Understanding Net Settlement  

The net settlement system permits banks to accumulate credits and debits with each other throughout the business day. Only at the end of the business day are the totals calculated and only the net differential needs to be transferred between the banks.





Key Takeaways

During the business day, a bank accumulates credits and debits with other banks.At the end of the day, every bank calculates how much it owes other banks, and how much it is owed.Each bank then files its numbers with the central bank, which manages the transfers of money among all banks.



A bank's net settlement is similar to balancing individual’s checkbook. The balancing process gets complicated if you have money coming in as cash, checks, and direct deposits, and money going out as cash purchases, checks, and credit card purchases. All of those transactions, including purchases, returns, bills paid, and paychecks received, must be netted to get the full picture.



Net settlement makes it easier for banks to manage their liquidity. That is, they need to know that they have enough real cash on hand to pay out to their customers over the counter and at the ATMs. There are two types of net settlement systems:



Bilateral settlement systems require the final resolution of payments made between two banks over the course of a day. These are due to be settled at the close of business, typically via a transfer between their accounts at the central bank.Multilateral settlement systems allow a bank to have a net balance with the system as a whole, rather than with an individual bank or banks.


   Net Settlement Vs. Gross Settlement  

In banking, gross settlement is not the same as net settlement. In particular, a real-time gross settlement system differs from a net settlement .






Large interbank transfers usually occur in real-time rather than as net settlements.



For example, the U.K.'s BACS Payment Schemes Limited (previously the Bankers' Automated Clearing Services or BACS) allows transactions among institutions to accumulate during the day. At the close of business, the central bank will adjust the active institutional accounts by the net amounts of the funds exchanged.﻿﻿



Large-value interbank funds transfers usually use real-time gross settlement. These often require immediate and complete clearing, which are typically organized by the nation's central bank.



Real-time gross settlement can reduce a bank's settlement risk overall as the interbank settlement occurs in real-time throughout the day, rather than all together at the end of the day as with net settlement. This type of gross settlement eliminates the risk of a lag in completing the transaction.



Real-time gross settlement often incurs a higher charge than net settlement processes.
What Are Net Tangible Assets?  

The term net tangible assets refers to the total physical assets of a company minus all intangible assets and liabilities. In other words, net tangible assets focus on physical assets such as property, plant, and equipment (PP&E), as well as inventories and cash instruments. Physical assets are anything that is listed on a company's balance sheet while intangible assets are those without a physical form. A company's net tangible assets can help it secure financing and determine how much risk it carries.





Key Takeaways

Net tangible assets are all the physical assets a company owns less any intangible assets and liabilities. They are listed on a company's balance sheet and indicate its book value.To calculate a company's net tangible assets, subtract its liabilities, par value of preferred shares, and any intangible assets, such as goodwill, patents, and trademarks from its total assets.Net tangible assets allow analysts to focus on a firm's physical assets in isolation.Companies can access financing and determine how much risk they carry based on the value of their net tangible assets. 












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   Understanding Net Tangible Assets  

As noted above, net tangible assets are any physical assets less intangible assets and liabilities. In order to calculate this, a company takes the fair market value (FMV) of its tangible assets and subtracts the fair market value of its liabilities. Remember that physical assets refer to anything that can be touched and can be found listed on a company's balance sheet, such as:



PP&E
Raw materials
Inventory
Accounts receivable
Finished goods
Office equipment and computer software
Cash



Intangible assets, on the other hand, are those that have no tangible form, such as trademarks, goodwill, patents, and copyrights. Liabilities, of course, refer to any debts the company owes, whether that's current or non-current, including accounts payable, long-term debt, and other similar obligations.



For example, if a company has total assets of $1 million, total liabilities of $100,000, and intangible goodwill of $100,000, its net tangible asset amount is $800,000. This is derived by subtracting $200,000 (the sum of both liabilities and goodwill) from the value of the company's total assets of $1 million.



The value of a company's net tangible assets may also be referred to as its net asset value (NAV) or book value. This value is important to a company as it provides a window into how much risk it carries—notably, its liquidity and solvency. It can also be used to help it access financing to meet its future goals.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Net Tangible Assets  

This measurement of a company's tangible assets is important because it allows a firm's management team to analyze its asset position without including obsolete or difficult to value intangible assets. A company's return on assets (ROA), for example, is often more accurate when net tangible assets are used in the calculation.



The usefulness of deriving net tangible assets, however, varies across industries. Medical device manufacturers, for example, have high levels of valuable intangible assets. This means it's important to look at a company's price-to-book (P/B) value and compare it against similar companies to gauge performance.





Pros

Companies can assess asset position without including intangible assets



Cons

Usefulness can vary across industries, especially those with higher intangible asset values





   Net Tangible Assets vs. Net Tangible Assets Per Share  

Some companies use their net tangible assets per share value in lieu of the net tangible assets measurement. To calculate a company's net tangible asset per share of common stock, divide its net tangible assets figure by the number of outstanding common shares. If a company has net tangible assets of $1 million and 500,000 shares outstanding, its net tangible asset value per share is $2.



This value is useful when conducting a comparative analysis of companies within an industry. Auto manufacturers, for example, may have high net tangible assets per share, while a software company with a high level of intangible assets may have a much lower number per share. It is therefore important to use this measure only when analyzing companies within the same industry.


   Real-World Examples of Net Tangible Assets  

Let us look at some actual data for Amazon and Meta and calculate the net tangible assets for each using their annual 10-K filings.



Amazon: The ecommerce giant reported total assets of $321.2 billion, total liabilities of $227.8 billion, and goodwill of $15.01 billion on Dec. 31, 2020. Its resulting net tangible assets were $78.39 billion, or $321.2 billion less $227.8 billion and $15.01 billion.
Meta: The company behind the Facebook platform had total assets of $133.4 billion, total liabilities of $32.3 billion, intangible assets of $894 million, and goodwill of $18.7 billion on Dec. 31, 2019. To calculate the value of Meta's net tangible assets at that time, subtract its intangible assets, goodwill, and total liabilities from its total assets. So, its net tangible assets were approximately $81.5 billion.
What Is Net Unrealized Appreciation?  

Some companies offer the benefit of employees owning stock in the employer company. The idea is that this creates an ownership mentality in the employees, even if they own a very small percentage of total shares. The net unrealized appreciation (NUA) is the difference in value between the average cost basis of shares of employer stock and the current market value of the shares.﻿ The NUA is important if you are distributing highly appreciated employer stock from your tax-deferred employer-sponsored retirement plan, such as a 401(k).





Key Takeaways

Net unrealized appreciation (NUA) is the difference between the original cost basis and current market value of shares of employer stock.The IRS offers a provision that allows for a more favorable capital gains tax rate on the NUA of employer stock upon distribution, after certain qualifying events.The downside is that ordinary income tax must be paid immediately on the cost basis of the shares of employer stock.


   Understanding Net Unrealized Appreciation (NUA)  

Typically, distributions from tax-deferred retirement accounts are treated as ordinary income at the time of distribution. Ordinary income is taxed at a higher rate than long-term capital gains. To remedy this issue, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) offers an election for the NUA of employer stock to be taxed at the more favorable capital gains rate.﻿﻿﻿



The NUA election is only available when the stock is placed into a tax-deferred account, such as a 401(k) or traditional IRA, and is only applicable to the stock of the company for which you are or were employed. Roth IRAs do not qualify for NUA because they are not tax-deferred, and brokerage accounts do not qualify for NUA because they are generally already subject to the capital gains tax.﻿


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Net Unrealized Appreciation (NUA)  

Distributing stock out of a 401(k) will have different effects on NUA funds, per IRS rules and regulations. While the IRS will tax the majority of a 401(k) portfolio at its market value as ordinary income, shares of the employer stock will only be taxed as ordinary income on the cost basis. The cost basis is the original value of the employer stock. This means that any additional value gained since the stock was initially purchased is not taxed as ordinary income, and it will instead be taxed as capital gains. Upon selling the company stock, the NUA will be subject to the capital gains tax, which may be dramatically lower than your current income tax rate.



However, the downside is that ordinary income tax must be paid on the cost basis of the employer stock immediately. The trade-off is that ordinary income taxes would not have been due until you sold the shares in the future, years or decades from now. Because of this trade-off, it is best to only distribute the lowest cost basis shares under the NUA rules to optimize the tax consequences.


   Requirements for Net Unrealized Appreciation  

There are additional requirements that must be met as part of the NUA rules. Within one year, you must distribute the entirety of the vested balance held in the plan, including all assets from all of the accounts sponsored by the same employer. Certain qualifying events must also be met. You must have either separated from the company, reached the minimum retirement age for distribution, suffered an injury resulting in total disability, or you must have died.﻿
What Is Net Volume?  

Net volume is a technical indicator calculated by subtracting a security's uptick volume by its downtick volume over a specified period of time. Unlike standard volume, the indicator differentiates whether the market sentiment is leaning bullish or bearish. Net volume is typically plotted below the price chart with bars for each period indicating the net volume reading for that period.


   Understanding Net Volume  

Net volume is used by traders to assess market sentiment beyond the use of standard volume. Positive net volume suggests that a security is experiencing a bullish upswing, while negative net volume suggests that a security is experiencing a bearish downswing.



For example, suppose that a thinly traded stock experienced five downward trades at 200 shares a piece, moving down a total of five percent, and one upward trade at 10,000 shares, moving the stock up three percent. The stock may have closed two percent lower, but the net volume would have been a positive 9,000, suggesting that the momentum has really been bullish under the surface.



Here's an example of a chart showing net volume:












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



Many traders use net volume in conjunction with other forms of technical analysis, including technical indicators and chart patterns, when looking for potential opportunities. For instance, traders might determine that a stock broke out from a key resistance level and then look at net volume to determine how much buying pressure is behind the move and if there's enough momentum moving forward.


   Comparing Net Volume  

Net volume is similar to many other momentum indicators that look at volume along with various other factors. Unlike these other indicators, net volume looks exclusively at volume over a single timeframe.



For example, net volume is similar to the money flow index, in that both technical indicators measure market interest in a given security, but the MFI uses both price and volume to measure buying and selling pressure rather than just looking at volume. Net volume is also similar to on balance volume, in that both technical indicators look at volume changes, but OBV adds up volume on up days and down days over time rather than looking at a single period. Other indicators, like the relative strength index, look at the magnitude of gains or losses to provide insights.



Many traders tend to use more complex momentum indicators than net volume when analyzing opportunities, but it may still play a role in certain cases where the trader needs to only look at a single period.
What Is Net Worth?  

Net worth is the value of the assets a person or corporation owns, minus the liabilities they owe. It is an important metric to gauge a company's health, providing a useful snapshot of its current financial position.



Sometimes called net wealth, one's net worth is used in the financial world to qualify certain individuals for particular investment strategies or financial products such as hedge funds, structured products, or other complex or alternative investments. Net worth has also become a fixation of popular culture, with lists ranking the people with the highest net worth as well as the net worth of various celebrities.





Key Takeaways

Net worth is a quantitative concept that measures the value of an entity and can apply to individuals, corporations, sectors, and even countries.Net worth provides a snapshot of an entity's current financial position.In business, net worth is also known as book value or shareholders' equity.People with substantial net worth are called high-net-worth individuals (HNWI).Elon Musk currently has the highest net worth of any individual on the planet.












Investopedia / Joules Garcia


   How to Calculate Net Worth  

Net worth is calculated by subtracting all liabilities from assets. An asset is anything owned that has monetary value, while liabilities are obligations that deplete resources, such as loans, accounts payable (AP), and mortgages.



Net worth can be described as either positive or negative, with the former meaning that assets exceed liabilities and the latter that liabilities exceed assets. Positive and increasing net worth indicates good financial health. Decreasing net worth, on the other hand, is cause for concern as it might signal a decrease in assets relative to liabilities.



The best way to improve net worth is to either reduce liabilities while assets stay constant or rise, or increase assets while liabilities either stay constant or fall.



Net worth can be applied to individuals, companies, sectors, and even countries.


   Net Worth in Business  

In business, net worth is also known as book value or shareholders' equity. The balance sheet is also known as a net worth statement. The value of a company's equity equals the difference between the value of total assets and total liabilities. Note that the values on a company's balance sheet highlight historical costs or book values, not current market values.



Lenders scrutinize a business's net worth to determine if it is financially healthy. If total liabilities exceed total assets, a creditor may not be too confident in a company's ability to repay its loans.



A consistently profitable company will register a rising net worth or book value as long as these earnings are not fully distributed to shareholders as dividends. For a public company, a rising book value will often be accompanied by an increase in the value of its stock price.


   Net Worth in Personal Finance  

An individual's net worth is simply the value that is left after subtracting liabilities from assets.



Examples of liabilities include debts like mortgages, credit card balances, student loans, and car loans. Liabilities can also include obligations that must be paid such as bills and taxes.



An individual's assets, meanwhile, include checking and savings account balances, the value of securities such as stocks or bonds, real property value, the market value of an automobile, et al. Whatever is left after selling all assets and paying off personal debt is the net worth.



People with a substantial net worth are known as high net worth individuals (HNWI) and form the prime market for wealth managers and investment counselors. Investors with a net worth, excluding their primary residence, of at least $1 million—either alone or together with their spouse—are "accredited investors" in the eyes of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and, therefore, permitted to invest in unregistered securities offerings.





Important

Note that the value of personal net worth includes the current market value of assets and the current debt costs.


   Example of Net Worth  

Consider a couple with the following assets:



Primary residence valued at $250,000,
An investment portfolio with a market value of $100,000,
Automobiles and other assets valued at $25,000.



Liabilities include:



An outstanding mortgage balance of $100,000A car loan of $10,000



The couple's net worth would, therefore, be calculated as:



[$250,000 + $100,000 + $25,000] - [$100,000 + $10,000] = $265,000



Assume that five years later, the couple's financial position changes: the residence value is $225,000, investment portfolio $120,000, savings $20,000, automobile and other assets $15,000; mortgage loan balance $80,000, and car loan $0 because it was paid off. Based on these new figures, the net worth five years later would be:



[$225,000 + $120,000 + $20,000 + $15,000] - $80,000 = $300,000.



The couple's net worth has gone up by $35,000, despite the decrease in the value of their residence and car. As we can see above, these declines were more than offset by increases in other assets, in this case, the investment portfolio and savings, as well as a drop in liabilities owed.


   Negative Net Worth  

A negative net worth results if total debt is more than total assets. For instance, if the sum of an individual's credit card bills, utility bills, outstanding mortgage payments, auto loan bills, and student loans is higher than the total value of their cash and investments, net worth will be negative.



Negative net worth is a sign that an individual or family needs to focus its energy on debt reduction. A tough budget, the use of debt reduction strategies such as the debt snowball or debt avalanche, and perhaps negotiation of some debts with creditors can sometimes help people climb out of a negative net worth hole and start building up their resources.



Early in life, a negative net worth is not uncommon—student loans mean even the most careful-with-money young people can start out owing more than they own. Family responsibilities or an unexpected illness can also push people into the red.



When nothing else has worked, filing for bankruptcy protection to eliminate some of the debt and prevent creditors from trying to collect on it might be the most appropriate solution; however, some liabilities—such as child support, alimony, taxes, and often student loans—cannot be discharged. It’s also worth bearing in mind that a bankruptcy will stay on an individual's credit report for many years.




What Is a Good Net Worth?
Determining what a "good" net worth is will vary for every individual, according to their life's circumstances, financial needs, and lifestyle. The average net worth of an individual in the U.S. was $121,700 in 2019, according to the latest data from the Federal Reserve.




How Do I Calculate My Net Worth?
To calculate your net worth, you subtract your total liabilities from your total assets. Total assets will include your investments, savings, cash deposits, and any equity that you have in a home, car, or other similar assets. Total liabilities would include any debt, such as student loans and credit card debt.




How Much Should I Have Saved?
How much you should have saved will depend on your age, your career, your lifestyle, and your life's circumstances. Fidelity, for example, recommends having saved three times your annual salary by the time you are 40 across all of your retirement accounts.




How Many People in America Are Considered "High Net-Worth"?
The United States had the most HNWIs in the world in 2021, with more than 7.4 million such people.


   The Bottom Line  

Net worth is a good way of understanding the true wealth of an individual or business. Looking only at one's assets can be misleading since this is often offset by some amount of liabilities, such as debt. One's net worth can be increased, therefore, by increasing assets while reducing debts and other liabilities.
What Is Netback?  

Netback is a summary of all costs associated with bringing one unit of oil to the marketplace and the revenues from the sale of all the products generated from that same unit. It's expressed as gross profit per barrel.



Netback is calculated by taking the revenues from the oil, less all costs associated with getting the oil to a market, including transportation, royalties, and production costs:



Price - Royalties - Production - Transportation = Netback 



This term is only used in reference to oil producers and their associated production activities.





Key Takeaways

Only oil producers use the term netback.Netback is a summary of all costs associated with bringing one unit of product to the marketplace.The netback price can be used to compare one oil producer to another.A producer can examine cost-effectiveness by reviewing the netback over time.


   Understanding Netback  

Netback per barrel is determined by removing the costs of production from the average realized price, resulting in a net profit per barrel amount. These costs include importing, transportation, marketing, production and refining costs, and royalty fees.



Producers with higher netback prices reflect a more operationally efficient oil company because they're receiving higher profits than their competitors from the materials produced.


   Netback Strengths and Weaknesses  

It bears noting that netback is not a Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) equation. The formula presented here is a standard, but various companies might calculate netback somewhat differently.



To some extent, this can result in a less than perfect comparison between companies, although growth or falling prices can still be an indicator of an oil company's fiscal health.



Conversely, the formula does not consider operating or other types of fluctuating costs, so it is a measure of efficiency.


   Netback Investment Analysis  

Netback prices can be used to compare one oil producer to another—the oil producer with the higher netback price is effectively more profitable than the one with the lesser netback amount.



Although netback demonstrates variances in profitability, it doesn't indicate the reason for the variance. Differences in netback pricing can be caused by variations in production techniques, such as whether the company is participating in land-based or offshore operations, as well as with different locales.



Varying regulations between nations can cause discrepancies in overall cost from one producer to the next. Any challenges posed by the political instability within a region can present unique issues regarding transportation or general safety.



Changes in netback prices attributed to a single company over time can also demonstrate whether production is becoming more or less cost-effective. If a selected oil company’s netback price has been increasing over time, it might be indicative of future success within the industry, while a company showing falling netback prices might be a cause for concern for investors.


   Real-World Example  

It might cost an oil producer $125 to convert one barrel of light crude oil into heating oil, gasoline, diesel, and petrochemical byproducts. It owes royalties of $25, and it will cost $100 to transport the oil to the buyer. The netback would be $75, assuming a sales price of $325: $325 less $125 less $25 less $100.



This figure allows exploration and production (E&P) firms to compare the producer's costs with those of its competitors. It also allows for more efficient planning regarding which products a company should focus on producing.
What Is Netting?  

Netting entails offsetting the value of multiple positions or payments due to be exchanged between two or more parties. It can be used to determine which party is owed remuneration in a multiparty agreement. Netting is a general concept that has a number of more specific uses, including in the financial markets.





Key Takeaways

Netting offsets the value of multiple positions or payments due to be exchanged between two or more parties.Netting is used in a number of settings and instances—securities or currency trading, bankruptcy, and inter-company transactions, among others.Netting can involve more than two parties, called multilateral netting, and generally involves a central exchange or clearinghouse.


   How Netting Works  

Netting is a method of reducing risks in financial contracts by combining or aggregating multiple financial obligations to arrive at a net obligation amount. Netting is used to reduce settlement, credit, and other financial risks between two or more parties. 



Netting is often used in trading, where an investor can offset a position in one security or currency with another position either in the same security or a different one. The goal of netting is to offset losses in one position with gains in another. For example, if an investor is short 40 shares of a security and long 100 shares of the same security, the position is net long 60 shares.



Netting is also used when a company files for bankruptcy whereby the parties tend to net the balances owed to each other. This is also called a set-off clause or set-off law. In other words, a company doing business with a defaulting company may offset any money they owe the defaulting company with money that’s owed them. The remainder represents the total amount owed by them or to them, which can be used in bankruptcy proceedings.



Companies can also use netting to simplify third-party invoices, ultimately reducing multiple invoices into a single one. For example, several divisions in a large transport corporation purchase paper supplies from a single supplier, but the paper supplier also uses the same transport company to ship its products to others. By netting how much each party owes the other, a single invoice can be created for the company that has the outstanding bill. This technique can also be used when transferring funds between subsidiaries.






Netting saves a great deal of time by eliminating the need to process multiple transactions, reducing the number of transactions down to one.


   Types of Netting  

Here are the top four ways netting is used:


  Close-Out Netting  

Close-out netting happens after default, which is when a party fails to make principal and interest payments. Transactions between the two parties are netted to arrive at a single amount for one party to pay the other. In close-out netting, the existing contracts are terminated, and an aggregate terminal value is calculated and paid as one lump sum.


  Settlement Netting  

Also known as payment netting, settlement netting aggregates the amount due among parties and nets the cash flows into one payment. In other words, only the net difference in the aggregate amounts is delivered or exchanged by the party with the net owed obligation. Typically, a payment netting agreement must be in place before the settlement date. Otherwise, each of the individual payments would be due to and from all parties involved.


  Netting by Novation  

Novation netting cancels offsetting swaps and replaces them with new obligations. In other words, if two companies have obligations due to each other on the same value date (or settlement date), the net amount is calculated. However, instead of simply sending the net difference to the party owed, novation netting cancels the contracts and books a new one for the net or aggregate amount. The new aggregate contract under novation netting makes it distinctly different from payment netting, which does not book a new contract; instead, the net aggregate amount is exchanged.


  Multilateral Netting  

Multilateral netting is netting that involves more than two parties. In this case, a clearinghouse or central exchange is often used. Multilateral netting can also occur within one company with multiple subsidiaries. If the subs owe payments to each other for various amounts, they can each send their payments to a central corporate entity or netting center. The main office would net the invoices and the various currencies from the subsidiaries and make the net payment to the parties that are owed. Multilateral netting involves pooling the funds from two or more parties so that a more simplified invoicing and payment process can be achieved.


   Benefits of Netting  

Netting saves companies a great deal of time and costs by eliminating the need to process a large number of transactions per month and reducing the transactions necessary down to one payment. For banks transferring across borders, it limits the number of foreign exchange transactions as the number of flows decreases.



With netting in foreign exchange, companies or banks can consolidate the number of currencies and foreign exchange deals intro larger trades, reaping the benefits of improved pricing. When companies have more organized time frames and predictability in settlements, they can more accurately forecast their cash flows.


   Example of Netting  

Netting is very common in the swap markets. For example, assume two parties enter into a swap agreement on a particular security whereby they both owe money to each other. At the end of the swap period, the following is due:



Investor A is due to receive $100,000 from Investor BInvestor B is due to receive $25,000 from Investor AInstead of Investor B paying Investor A $100,000 and Investor A giving Investor B $25,000, the payments would be nettedInvestor A would give Investor B $0, while Investor B would give Investor A $75,000












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



This netting process occurs on a wide variety of swaps, but there is one type of swap where netting does not occur. With currency swaps, since the notional amounts are in different currencies, the notional amounts are exchanged in their respective currencies, and all payments due are exchanged in full between two parties; no netting occurs.
What Is the Network Effect?  

The network effect is a phenomenon whereby increased numbers of people or participants improve the value of a good or service. The internet is an example of the network effect. Initially, there were few users on the internet since it was of little value to anyone outside of the military and some research scientists.



However, as more users gained access to the internet, they produced more content, information, and services. The development and improvement of websites attracted more users to connect and do business with each other. As the internet experienced increases in traffic, it offered more value, leading to a network effect.





Key Takeaways

The network effect is a phenomenon whereby increased numbers of people improve the value of a good or service.E-commerce sites, such as Etsy and eBay, grew in popularity by accessing online networks and attracting consumers to their products.Some companies cannot achieve critical mass—the number of users needed for the network effect to take hold—even with access to online and offline networks.Congestion is a negative network effect whereby too many users can slow a network down, reducing its utility and frustrating network members.The more popular a business or product grows, the more the users effectively act as salesmen, spreading word of the business themselves.


   How the Network Effect Works  

The network effect can lead to an improved experience as more people participate. It can also encourage new participants as they look to benefit from the network.



Network effects can be found throughout social media. For example, as more users post content such as links and media on X (formerly Twitter), the more useful the platform becomes to the public. The network effect has created exponential growth rates for networking platforms such as Facebook, YouTube, and Instagram.



Multiple network effects have occurred when individuals join social media platforms. As more users join and participate, companies looking to advertise their products and services rush to join these sites to capitalize on the trend. The increase in advertisers leads to more revenue for social media websites. As a result, the sites evolve and are able to offer more services to the consumer.


   History of the Network Effect  

The network effect concept originated in the early 20th century, with the advent of the telephone. Theodore Vail, the first post-patent president of Bell Telephone, used the network effect to argue why Bell Telephone should have a monopoly on telephone networks.



Later, Robert Metcalfe, the creator of Ethernet, helped to popularize the idea by introducing Metcalfe's law, which states that the value of a telecommunications network is proportional to the square of the number of connected users of the system.



Today, the network effect has everyday, real-world applications and value, as evidenced by social media companies like Meta, X, and LinkedIn. Typically, the more people with accounts on their social media sites, the more valuable both the product is to its users and the company is to shareholders.


   Network Effect vs. Network Externality  

Although similar, network effect and network externality have distinct differences. Network externality is an economics term that refers to how the demand for a product is dependent on the demand of others buying that product. In other words, the buying patterns of consumers are influenced by others purchasing a product.



For example, if you see a lot of cars in a restaurant's parking lot, you might assume the restaurant has good food. As a result, you give it a try since all of those people can't be wrong. Trends in fashion also influence the buying patterns of consumers. Clothes routinely go in and out of style based primarily on copycat buying and selling patterns of consumers.



Positive network externalities can lead to a network effect. If a lot of your friends are on Facebook, you might join hoping to connect with them, which is a positive externality. If after you join, you post quality content, and that leads to many people enjoying the experience, it'll boost engagement and create a network effect.






The internet is a notable example of the network effect. The escalation of users has lead to more websites and engagement as well as companies offering products and services.


   How the Network Effect Builds Businesses  

The network effects that exist on the internet often benefit a variety of services-for-hire apps and websites. As more professionals, such as dog walkers, tutors, or electricians, list their services online, more customers rely on those online directories. E-commerce sites, such as Etsy and eBay, grew in popularity as more sellers joined those marketplaces and sold their products to consumers who embraced online shopping.



The network effect also played a role in the advance of ridesharing services. Companies such as Uber and Lyft evolved and grew through the support of participants who signed up and expanded the companies' reach across cities and states. As more drivers became part of Uber and Lyft, the two brands gained in market value.


   How to Use the Network Effect to Your Advantage  

Leveraging the network effect can help grow a business. If you understand the principles that drive the network effect, you can take advantage of them to increase demand for your product. Once the effect takes place, your users effectively act as salesmen, spreading news of the product far and wide by word of mouth.



In markets where there are network effects, businesses will often compete to be the first on the scene so that they can take advantage of this phenomenon. For example, have you ever been handed an item for free on the street from an unheard-of business? This is a tactic that is used to increase interest in the product so that people will buy it and spread word of it around. Then, as demand for the product grows, prices increase and people become willing to pay more. The more people who use your product, the more value your product has.





Fast Fact

Some of the leading, fastest-growing companies, such as Meta, Apple, and Airbnb, achieved success because of the network effect.


   Network Effect and Pricing  

If your business is in a market that's subject to the network effect, you may price your products differently when the business begins than you do when the network effect takes hold. As a business grows due to the network effect, it often makes sense to increase prices as demand for the product grows.



Businesses will often price their products at the highest price possible (without going higher than a customer is willing to pay for the product) in order to maximize profits. However, starting at a lower price (or in some cases, giving the product away for free, as mentioned above) and then increasing the price of the product as the network effect occurs will result in a larger user base.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of the Network Effect  

The chief hurdle for any company that seeks to benefit from the network effect is gaining traction or attracting enough users initially so that the network effect can take hold. The number of users required for a significant network effect is called the critical mass.



After critical mass is attained, the good or service attracts additional new users because of the utility or benefits to the consumer. In this way, the prospect of the network effect helps companies strive to become self-sustaining.



Another positive impact of the network effect is that it encourages entrepreneurs and creators of intellectual property to pursue more efficient and unique products to present to the public.



But there's a flip side. If too many people use a good or service, congestion can occur. Take the internet, for example. Having too many users on the same network service can slow the speed of the network, decreasing the benefit for users. Providers of goods and services that use a network effect must ensure that capacity can be increased sufficiently to accommodate all users.



Another potential pitfall of the network effect is that once a company achieves and maintains critical mass, it may begin to become less efficient and innovative because it knows it has a solid consumer base.





Advantages

Encourages entrepreneurs and creators of intellectual property to pursue more unique and efficient products 
Provides benefit to users from an increasingly valuable service
Stresses the importance of reaching critical mass



Disadvantages

Congestion can occur if too many people use the network
Companies must ensure that capacity is sufficient to accommodate all users, which can be costly
Companies may become less innovative after critical mass is achieved.







What Does the Network Effect Mean?
The network effect refers to the concept that the value of a product or service increases when the number of people who use that product or service increases.




What Are Examples of the Network Effect?
Social media networks such as Facebook and X are great examples of the network effect. The value of these websites increases as more people sign up for accounts on the site.




What Is a Network Effects Platform?
Platforms that operate on the network effect include the internet, mobile phone and landline networks, as well as social media websites.




What Are Positive Network Effects?
A product or service exhibits a positive network effect when the value of the product or service increases as the number of users increases.


   The Bottom Line  

As the internet—one of the most prominent demonstrations of the network effect—becomes a bigger part of our lives, it will become increasingly important both for producers and consumers to have a firm grasp of the network effect and its benefits.



Most businesses can use the internet to take advantage of the network effect in one way or another and reap the benefits of growth in their business. However, the network effect doesn't only take place online, so taking advantage of it in all forms can help drive more users to a business.
What Is Network Marketing?  

Network marketing is a business model that depends on person-to-person sales by independent representatives, often working from home. A network marketing business may require you to build a network of business partners or salespeople to assist with lead generation and closing sales.



There are many reputable network marketing operations, but some have been denounced as pyramid schemes. The latter may focus less on sales to consumers than on recruitment of salespeople who may be required to pay upfront for expensive starter kits.





Key Takeaways

Network marketing appeals to people with high energy and strong sales skills, who can build a profitable business with a modest investment.A network marketing business can be a single-tier program, whereby you sell the products, or multi-tier, where you also recruit additional salespeople.Beware of network marketing companies that create many tiers of salespeople or require you to purchase expensive products or training material up-front, Make sure to thoroughly research the company before you join.


   How Network Marketing Works  

Network marketing is known by a variety of names, including multilevel marketing (MLM), cellular marketing, affiliate marketing, consumer-direct marketing, referral marketing, or home-based business franchising.



Companies that follow the network marketing model often create tiers of salespeople—that is, salespeople are encouraged to recruit their own networks of salespeople. The creators of a new tier (or "upline") earn commission on their own sales and on sales made by the people in the tier they created (the "downline"). In time, a new tier can sprout yet another tier, which contributes more commission to the person in the top tier as well as the middle tier.



Thus, the earnings of salespeople depend on recruitment as well as product sales. Those who got in early and are in a top tier make the most.






The FCC advises that that single-tier network marketing operations tend to be more reputable than multi-tier schemes.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Network Marketing  

There is some stigma attached to the networking marketing business, especially those with multiple tiers, which can be characterized as pyramid schemes—that is, the salespeople in the top tier can make impressive amounts of money on commissions from the tiers below them. The people on the lower tiers will earn much less. The company makes money by selling expensive starter kits to new recruits.



The appeal of network marketing is that an individual with a lot of energy and good sales skills can create a profitable business with a modest investment.



A good rule of thumb, according to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), is that an operation that ensures compensation which is based on actual sales to real customers tends to be more reputable than multi-tier schemes, in which people make money based on the number of distributors they recruit.


   Special Considerations  

Anyone considering joining a network marketing operation should do their research before making a decision. Consider these questions:



Was it pitched as a chance to make money by selling products or by recruiting others?What is the track record of the company's founders?Are you personally enthusiastic about the products?Are people you know enthusiastic about the products?Is the product being promoted effectively?Do you foresee a relatively fast pathway to profits or a long time treading water?




Is Network Marketing a Pyramid Scheme?
While network and multi-level marketing programs have been accused of being pyramid schemes, there are some important differences. While those who are able to recruit more members into the program are often able to enjoy greater residual commissions, network marketing is a legitimate and legal business structure that offers real products and services sold to customers.




Will I Make Money by Joining a Network Marketing Program?
It is certainly possible, although not probable. Some people do enjoy great success at network marketing, largely due to their ability to recruit more members to the network. There are two main revenue sources: selling products, and commissions from sales made by team members downline. The more people there are downline from you, the more money you will accrue - the larger the team you can recruit, the more money you can make.Most people who join legitimate network marketing programs make little or no money. People may actually lose money. Some may become involved in an illegal pyramid scheme and not realize that they have joined a fraudulent venture, and can lose everything they invest. Do your research and ask around before diving in.




What Are Some Examples of Network Marketing Programs?
Several MLM programs exist such as Tupperware, Avon products, Rodan + Fields, Amway, Herbalife, Mary Kay, among several others.




What Is the Top-Grossing Network Marketing Program?
Amway consistently tops the list. Top-selling brands for Amway are Nutrilite vitamin, mineral and dietary supplements, Artistry skincare and color cosmetics, eSpring water treatment systems and XS energy drinks—all sold exclusively by independent Amway Business Owners. In 2021, it brought in $8.9 billion in revenue.
What Is Networking?  

Networking is the exchange of information and ideas among people with a common profession or special interest, usually in an informal social setting. Networking often begins with a single point of common ground.



Professionals use networking to expand their circles of acquaintances, find out about job opportunities in their fields, and increase their awareness of news and trends in their fields or the greater world.





Key Takeaways

Networking is used by professionals to widen their circles of acquaintances, find out about job opportunities, and increase their awareness of news and trends in their fields.Business owners may network to develop relationships with people and companies they may do business with in the future.Professional networking platforms provide an online location for people to engage with other professionals, join groups, post blogs, and share information.The coronavirus pandemic drove many professionals to network solely online rather than in person.Many colleges and universities provide opportunities for alumni to network with one another.


   How Networking Works  

People generally join networking groups based on a single common point of interest that all members share. The most obvious is a professional affiliation, such as stockbrokers. Still, some people find effective networking opportunities in a college alumni group, a church or synagogue social group, or a private club.



For professionals, the best networking opportunities may occur at trade shows, seminars, and conferences, designed to attract a large crowd of like-minded individuals. Networking helps a professional keep up with current events in the field and develops relationships that may boost future business or employment prospects. Needless to say, it also provides opportunities to help other people find jobs, make connections, and catch up on the news.



Small business owners network to develop relationships with people and companies they may do business with in the future. These connections help them establish rapport and trust among people in their own communities. Successful business networking involves regularly following up with contacts to exchange valuable information that may not be readily available outside the network.






Business owners and entrepreneurs often join their local chamber of commerce to promote their business interests and help others in their community do the same. There are many additional benefits to joining a chamber of commerce, such as receiving deals and discounts from other chamber members, having one's business listed in the chamber directory, and the ability to influence policies related to the area's business and economic activity.


   Online Networking  

Professional networking platforms such as LinkedIn provide an online location for people to engage with other professionals, join groups, post blogs, and share information. And, of course, they provide a place to post a resume that can be seen by prospective employers, to search for jobs, or to identify job candidates.



These days, a business-to-business (B2B) customer pipeline can be developed almost entirely through the use of a social networking site. Online networking forums allow professionals to demonstrate their knowledge and connect with like-minded people.



LinkedIn is the largest professional network, but there are many others. Some cater to particular subsets of people, such as Black Business Women Online. Others have a different focus, such as Meetup, which encourages its members to meet in person off-site or virtually through online video conferences.






The term computer networking refers to linking multiple devices to share information and software resources in an immediate way.


   Special Considerations  

Given the growing number of networking opportunities available to people looking to start or advance their careers, it's important to take some time to explore your options before committing to a specific networking group.



While it's tempting for a new business owner or someone looking for a dream job to join as many networks as possible, a better strategy is to target your time and efforts toward those groups that best fit your needs and interests. Many networking organizations will host a special meet and greet events that allow potential new members to attend a meeting before becoming a member.



Once you join a networking group, it's important to become a contributing member. Rather than just using the association to further their own goals, people who use networking effectively look to offer something of value to other group members. Networking can help you identify opportunities for collaboration, strategic joint ventures, partnerships, and new areas to expand your business.




How Can I Network Efficiently?
It's important to take some time to explore your options before committing to a specific networking group. While it's tempting for a new business owner or someone looking for a dream job to join as many networks as possible, a better strategy is to target your time and efforts toward those groups that best fit your needs and interests.Many networking organizations will host a special meet and greet events that allow potential new members to attend a meeting before becoming members. Once you join a networking group, it's important to become a contributing member. Rather than just using the association to further their own goals, people who use networking effectively look to offer something of value to other group members.




Why Is Networking Useful?
Professionals use networking to expand their circles of acquaintances, find out about job opportunities in their fields, and increase their awareness of news and trends in their fields or the greater world. It helps a professional keep up with current events in the field and develops relationships that may boost future business or employment prospects.




Why Should Businesses Network?
Small business owners network to develop relationships with people and companies they may do business with in the future. These connections help them establish rapport and trust among people in their own communities. Successful business networking involves regularly following up with contacts to exchange valuable information that may not be readily available outside the network.Business owners and entrepreneurs often join their local chamber of commerce to promote their business interests and help others in their community do the same. Networking can help you identify opportunities for collaboration, strategic joint ventures, partnerships, and new areas to expand your business.




What Is Online Networking?
Professional networking platforms such as LinkedIn provide an online location for people to engage with other professionals, join groups, post blogs, and share information. And, of course, they provide a place to post a resume that can be seen by prospective employers, to search for jobs, or to identify job candidates. These days, a business-to-business (B2B) customer pipeline can be developed almost entirely through the use of a social networking site. Online networking forums allow professionals to demonstrate their knowledge and connect with like-minded people.
What Is a Neural Network?  

A neural network is a series of algorithms that endeavors to recognize underlying relationships in a set of data through a process that mimics the way the human brain operates. In this sense, neural networks refer to systems of neurons, either organic or artificial in nature.



Neural networks can adapt to changing input; so the network generates the best possible result without needing to redesign the output criteria. The concept of neural networks, which has its roots in artificial intelligence, is swiftly gaining popularity in the development of trading systems.





Key Takeaways

Neural networks are a series of algorithms that mimic the operations of an animal brain to recognize relationships between vast amounts of data.As such, they tend to resemble the connections of neurons and synapses found in the brain.They are used in a variety of applications in financial services, from forecasting and marketing research to fraud detection and risk assessment.Neural networks with several process layers are known as "deep" networks and are used for deep learning algorithmsThe success of neural networks for stock market price prediction varies.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   Understanding Neural Networks  

Neural networks, in the world of finance, assist in the development of such processes as time-series forecasting, algorithmic trading, securities classification, credit risk modeling, and constructing proprietary indicators and price derivatives.



A neural network works similarly to the human brain’s neural network. A “neuron” in a neural network is a mathematical function that collects and classifies information according to a specific architecture. The network bears a strong resemblance to statistical methods such as curve fitting and regression analysis.



A neural network contains layers of interconnected nodes. Each node is a known as perceptron and is similar to a multiple linear regression. The perceptron feeds the signal produced by a multiple linear regression into an activation function that may be nonlinear.


   History of Neural Networks  

Though the concept of integrated machines that can think has existed for centuries, there have been the largest strides in neural networks in the past 100 years. In 1943, Warren McCulloch and Walter Pitts from the University of Illinois and the University of Chicago published "A Logical Calculus of the Ideas Immanent in Nervous Activity". The research analyzed how the brain could produce complex patterns and could be simplified down to a binary logic structure with only true/false connections.



Frank Rosenblatt from the Cornell Aeronautical Labratory was credited with the development of perceptron in 1958. His research introduced weights to McColloch's and Pitt's work, and Rosenblatt leveraged his work to demonstrate how a computer could use neural networks to detect imagines and make inferences.



After a dry spell of research (largely due to a dry spell in funding) during the 1970's. Then, Jon Hopfield presented Hopfield Net, a paper on recurrent neural networks in 1982. In addition, the concept of backpropagation resurfaced, and many researchers began to understand its potential for neural nets. Paul Werbos is often credited with the primary contribution during this time in his PhD thesis.



Most recently, more specific neural network projects are being generated for direct purposes. For example, Deep Blue, developed by IBM, conquered the chess world by pushing the ability of computers to handle complex calculations. Though publicly known for beating the world chess champion, these types of machines are also leveraged to discover new medicine, identify financial market trend analysis, and perform massive scientific calculations.






Recent analysis from the Los Alamos National Library allows analysts to compare different neural networks. The paper is considered an important part in moving towards characterizing the behavior of robust neural networks.


   Multi-Layered Perceptron  

In a multi-layered perceptron (MLP), perceptrons are arranged in interconnected layers. The input layer collects input patterns. The output layer has classifications or output signals to which input patterns may map. For instance, the patterns may comprise a list of quantities for technical indicators about a security; potential outputs could be “buy,” “hold” or “sell.”



Hidden layers fine-tune the input weightings until the neural network’s margin of error is minimal. It is hypothesized that hidden layers extrapolate salient features in the input data that have predictive power regarding the outputs. This describes feature extraction, which accomplishes a utility similar to statistical techniques such as principal component analysis.


   Types of Neural Networks  
  Feed-Forward Neural Networks  

Feed-forward neural networks are one of the more simple types of neural networks. It conveys information in one direction through input nodes; this information continues to be processed in this single direction until it reaches the output mode. Feed-forward neural networks may have hidden layers for functionality, and this type of most often used for facial recognition technologies.


  Recurrent Neural Networks  

A more complex type of neural network, recurrent neural networks take the output of a processing node and transmit the information back into the network. This results in theoretical "learning" and improvement of the network. Each node stores historical processes, and these historical processes are reused in the future during processing.



This becomes especially critical for networks in which the prediction is incorrect; the system will attempt to learn why the correct outcome occurred and adjust accordingly. This type of neural network is often used in text-to-speech applications.


  Convolutional Neural Networks  

Convolutional neural networks, also called ConvNets or CNNs, have several layers in which data is sorted into categories. These networks have an input layer, an output layer, and a hidden multitude of convolutional layers in between. The layers create feature maps that record areas of an image that are broken down further until they generate valuable outputs. These layers can be pooled or entirely connected, and these networks are especially beneficial for image recognition applications.


  Deconvolutional Neural Networks  

Deconvolutional neural networks simply work in reverse of convolutional neural networks. The application of the network is to detect items that might have been recognized as important under a convolutional neural network. These items would likely have been discarded during the convolutional neural network execution process. This type of neural network is also widely used for image analysis or processing.


  Modular Neural Networks  

Modular neural networks contain several networks that work independently from one another. These networks do not interact with each other during an analysis process. Instead, these processes are done to allow complex, elaborate computing processes to be done more efficiently. Similar to other modular industries such as modular real estate, the goal of the network independence is to have each module responsible for a particular part of an overall bigger picture.


   Application of Neural Networks  

Neural networks are broadly used, with applications for financial operations, enterprise planning, trading, business analytics, and product maintenance. Neural networks have also gained widespread adoption in business applications such as forecasting and marketing research solutions, fraud detection, and risk assessment.



A neural network evaluates price data and unearths opportunities for making trade decisions based on the data analysis. The networks can distinguish subtle nonlinear interdependencies and patterns other methods of technical analysis cannot. According to research, the accuracy of neural networks in making price predictions for stocks differs. Some models predict the correct stock prices 50 to 60% of the time, while others are accurate in 70% of all instances. Some have posited that a 10% improvement in efficiency is all an investor can ask for from a neural network.



Specific to finance, neural networks can process hundreds of thousands of bits of transaction data. This can translate to a better understanding of trading volume, trading range, correlation between assets, or setting volatility expectations for certain investments. As a human may not be able to efficiently pour through years of data (sometimes collected down second intervals), neural networks can be designed to spot trends, analyze outcomes, and predict future asset class value movements.






There will always be data sets and task classes that a better analyzed by using previously developed algorithms. It is not so much the algorithm that matters; it is the well-prepared input data on the targeted indicator that ultimately determines the level of success of a neural network.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Neural Networks  
  Advantages of Neural Networks  

Neutral networks that can work continuously and are more efficient than humans or simpler analytical models. Neural networks can also be programmed to learn from prior outputs to determine future outcomes based on the similarity to prior inputs.



Neural networks that leverage cloud of online services also have the benefit of risk mitigation compared to systems that rely on local technology hardware. In addition, neural networks can often perform multiple tasks simultaneously (or at least distribute tasks to be performed by modular networks at the same time).



Last, neural networks are continually being expanded into new applications. While early, theoretical neural networks were very limited to its applicability into different fields, neural networks today are leveraged in medicine, science, finance, agriculture, or security.


  Disadvantages of Neural Networks  

Though neutral networks may rely on online platforms, there is still a hardware component that is required to create the neural network. This creates a physical risk of the network that relies on complex systems, set-up requirements, and potential physical maintenance.



Though the complexity of neural networks is a strength, this may mean it takes months (if not longer) to develop a specific algorithm for a specific task. In addition, it may be difficult to spot any errors or deficiencies in the process, especially if the results are estimates or theoretical ranges.



Neural networks may also be difficult to audit. Some neural network processes may feel "like a black box" where input is entered, networks perform complicated processes, and output is reported. It may also be difficult for individuals to analyze weaknesses within the calculation or learning process of the network if the network lacks general transparency on how a model learns upon prior activity.




Neural Networks

Pros

Can often work more efficiently and for longer than humans
Can be programmed to learn from prior outcomes to strive to make smarter future calculations
Often leverage online services that reduce (but do not eliminate) systematic risk
Are continually being expanded in new fields with more difficult problems



Cons

Still rely on hardware that may require labor and expertise to maintain
May take long periods of time to develop the code and algorithms
May be difficult to assess errors or adaptions to the assumptions if the system is self-learning but lacks transparency
Usually report an estimated range or estimated amount that may not actualize







What Are the Components of a Neural Network?
There are three main components: an input later, a processing layer, and an output layer. The inputs may be weighted based on various criteria. Within the processing layer, which is hidden from view, there are nodes and connections between these nodes, meant to be analogous to the neurons and synapses in an animal brain.




What Is a Deep Neural Network?
Also known as a deep learning network, a deep neural network, at its most basic, is one that involves two or more processing layers. Deep neural networks rely on machine learning networks that continually evolve by compared estimated outcomes to actual results, then modifying future projections.




What Are the 3 Components of a Neural Network?
All neural networks have three main components. First, the input is the data entered into the network that is to be analyzed. Second, the processing layer utilizes the data (and prior knowledge of similar data sets) to formulate an expected outcome. That outcome is the third component, and this third component is the desired end product from the analysis.


   The Bottom Line  

Neural networks are complex, integrated systems that can perform analytics much deeper and faster than human capability. There are different types of neural networks, often best suited for different purposes and target outputs. In finance, neural networks are used to analyze transaction history, understand asset movement, and predict financial market outcomes.
What Is Neutral?  

Neutral describes a position taken in a market that is neither bullish nor bearish. In other words, it is insensitive to the direction of the market's price. If an investor has a neutral opinion—believing that a security or index will neither increase nor decrease in value in the near future—they can undertake an option strategy that may profit despite the lack of movement in the underlying security.



Neutral market trading strategies enable investors to make money when an underlying security does not move in price or stays within a tight range of prices. This can be achieved using a variety of methods, such as going long and short in similar stocks and using options or other derivatives positions.





Key Takeaways

Neutral is an agnostic position in terms of price movements and so is neither bullish nor bearish.Sideways markets or other neutral trends can be taken advantage of through neutral trading strategies.The use of derivatives such as delta-neutral options positions can achieve a neutral portfolio.


   Understanding Neutral  

When a security’s price goes up and down by small increments over time, it is said to be moving sideways. When a price moves sideways, the underlying security is thus in a neutral trend, moving neither up nor down over time. A neutral trend can occur after a sustained increase or decrease in price, when the price begins hitting levels of resistance or support and there is a period of consolidation. These trends can continue for days, weeks, or even months.



Traders can take advantage of neutral trends through appropriate strategies that often involve the use of short selling or derivatives contracts. If somebody longs shares on the weighted components of an index or index ETF and then goes short on that index or ETF, they have created a position that is neutral, since when the price of the index goes up so, too, will the prices of the components in an offsetting manner.



An investor may believe that there are certain structural inefficiencies between the basket of stocks that make up the index and the index itself that can be taken advantage of. For instance, in one neutral strategy called a dispersion trade, a trader can bet that half of the index components will rise in a trading day and the other half drop—but the index itself does not move much as a result.



A neutral trading strategy can also be employed by simultaneously taking a long position in one company and a short position in a second company that is very similar or a direct competitor in order to take advantage of perceived mispricing. So, if Coca-Cola and PepsiCo have a high correlation in the movements of their respective stock prices, and then Pepsi's stock suddenly surges while Coke does not, a trader may short Pepsi and go long Coca-Cola, betting that their existing price-spread relationship will be restored. This is known as a pairs trade.



Long-short market-neutral hedge funds make use of these strategies, and often use as their benchmark the risk-free rate of return because they do not worry about the direction of the market.


   Neutral Trading Strategies  

Neutral strategies can be constructed using derivatives such as options contracts:



When buying options in the components of an index and sell options on the index itself, it is called a dispersion or correlation trade.
A covered call is used when an investor has an existing long position in a stock and desires returns on a neutral position. The call may provide a small amount of protection against a price decrease. If the price does not increase, the option expires worthless and the investor makes income from a stagnant stock.
Traders use a covered put when they expect an ongoing neutral position followed by a drop in a stock’s share price. The trader writes a put option, expecting it to expire worthless and provide some profit. This is not a commonly used strategy and is unsuitable for inexperienced investors.
Another neutral strategy using options is to sell a straddle or a strangle, which are short positions taken in both a call and a put of the same underlying security and expiration date and either the same or different strike prices. Options called butterflies and condors are also considered "delta neutral" spread strategies.






These strategies can be complicated and are unsuitable for inexperienced investors.


   Advantages of Disadvantages of Neutral Strategies  

Potentially profiting off stocks and other financial instruments that have remained relatively stable in price gives options investors more opportunities. Because many financial instruments go through long periods of staying neutral, options traders have more chances for generating returns.



In addition, options investors may profit off three outcomes, not just one, increasing their odds of earning profits. Rewards aren't, however, limitless as the maximum amount of potential profit is fixed upon the trade's execution.



In contrast, options traders utilizing a strictly controlled return on investment (ROI) mandate can calculate maximum profit from the start, making income more predictable. However, because all strategies require two or more transactions, the investor pays more in commissions.
What Is the Neutrality of Money?  

The neutrality of money, also called neutral money, is an economic theory stating that changes in the money supply only affect nominal variables and not real variables. In other words, the amount of money printed by the Federal Reserve (Fed) and central banks can impact prices and wages but not the output or structure of the economy.



Modern versions of the theory accept that changes in the money supply might affect output or unemployment levels in the short run; however, many of today’s economists still believe that neutrality is assumed in the long run after money circulates throughout the economy.





Key Takeaways

The neutrality of money theory claims that changes in the money supply affect the prices of goods, services, and wages but not overall economic productivity.The theory states that changes in the supply of money do not alter the underlying conditions of the economy and, therefore, aggregate supply should remain constant.Some economists only agree that the theory of neutrality works over the long term. The assumption of long-run money neutrality underlies almost all macroeconomic theory.Critics of the neutrality of money believe that it increases prices and therefore impacts consumption and production.The phrase “neutrality of money” was introduced by Austrian economist Friedrich A. Hayek in 1931.


   Understanding the Neutrality of Money  

The neutrality of money theory is based on the idea that money is a “neutral” factor that has no real effect on economic equilibrium. Printing more money cannot change the fundamental nature of the economy, even if it drives up demand and leads to an increase in the prices of goods, services, and wages.



According to the theory, all markets for all goods clear continuously. Relative prices adjust flexibly and always towards equilibrium. Changes in the supply of money do not appear to change the underlying conditions in the economy. New money neither creates nor destroys machines, and it does not introduce new trading partners or affect existing knowledge and skill. As a result, aggregate supply should remain constant.



Not every economist agrees with this way of thinking and those who do generally believe that the neutrality of money theory is only truly applicable over the long term. In fact, the assumption of long-run money neutrality underlies almost all macroeconomic theory. Mathematical economists rely on this classical dichotomy to predict the effects of economic policy.



An example of the neutrality of money can be seen if a macroeconomist is studying the monetary policy of a central bank, such as the Federal Reserve (Fed). When the Fed engages in open market operations, the macroeconomist does not assume that changes in the money supply will change future capital equipment, employment levels, or real wealth in long-run equilibrium. Those factors will remain constant. This gives the economist a much more stable set of predictive parameters.


   Neutrality of Money History  

Conceptually, money neutrality grew out of the Cambridge tradition in economics between 1750 and 1870. The earliest version posited that the level of money could not affect output or employment even in the short run. Because the aggregate supply curve is presumed to be vertical, a change in the price level does not alter the aggregate output.



Adherents believed shifts in the money supply affect all goods and services proportionately and nearly simultaneously. However, many of the classical economists rejected this notion and believed short-term factors, such as price stickiness or depressed business confidence, were sources of non-neutrality.



The phrase “neutrality of money” was eventually coined by Austrian economist Friedrich A. Hayek in 1931. Originally, Hayek defined it as a market rate of interest at which malinvestments—poorly allocated business investments according to Austrian business cycle theory—did not occur and did not produce business cycles. Later, neoclassical and neo-Keynesian economists adopted the phrase and applied it to their general equilibrium framework, giving it its current meaning.


   Neutrality of Money vs. Superneutrality of Money  

There is an even stronger version of the neutrality of money postulate: the superneutrality of money. Superneutrality further assumes that changes in the rate of money supply growth do not affect economic output. Money growth has no impact on real variables except for real money balances. This theory disregards short-run frictions and is pertinent to an economy accustomed to a constant money growth rate.


   Criticism of the Neutrality of Money  

The neutrality of money theory has attracted criticism from some quarters. Many notable economists reject the concept in the short and long run, including John Maynard Keynes, Ludwig von Mises, and Paul Davidson. The post-Keynesian school and Austrian school of economics also dismiss it. Several econometric studies suggest that variations in the money supply affect relative prices over long periods of time.



The primary argument states that as the money supply increases, the value of money decreases. Eventually, as the increased supply of money spreads throughout the economy, the prices of goods and services will increase in order to reach a point of equilibrium by counteracting the increase of the money supply.



Critics also argue that an increase in the supply of money impacts consumption and production. Because an increase in the supply of money increases prices, this increase in price alters how individuals and businesses interact with the economy.
What Was the New Deal?  

The New Deal was a comprehensive and broad set of government-directed projects introduced by President Franklin Delano Roosevelt in an attempt to help the United States economy emerge from the Great Depression. It launched in the early 1930s and was designed to bolster the United States economy, reduce unemployment, provide a social safety net, and instill confidence in the government’s ability to protect its citizens.





Key Takeaways

The New Deal was a series of domestic programs introduced by President Franklin D. Roosevelt in an attempt to end the economic ravages of the Great Depression.The New Deal also attempted to curb the excesses of untrammeled capitalism through such policies as setting minimum wages, regulating working conditions, promoting labor unions, and bolstering retirement security.The New Deal made the government’s role in steering the economy more important.


   Understanding the New Deal  

The stock market crash of 1929 began on October 24—a day known as Black Thursday. It brought a period of roaring growth to a sudden halt.﻿﻿﻿ Companies and banks across the United States started failing, and the unemployment rate skyrocketed to the point that nearly a quarter of the workforce was unemployed.



President Franklin Roosevelt launched the New Deal after taking office in 1933.﻿﻿﻿ It consisted of a variety of government-funded programs aimed at getting people back to work, as well as legislation and executive orders that propped up farmers and stimulated business activity.



The New Deal engendered controversy by introducing a number of radical reforms and increasing the government’s role in guiding the economy. Several of its programs were ultimately declared unconstitutional by the U.S. Supreme Court, including two major pillars: the National Recovery Administration (NRA)—which set working conditions, minimum wages, and maximum hours, while guaranteeing the right of labor to bargain collectively—and the Agricultural Adjustment Administration (AAA), which intended to stabilize farm prices.﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿



Public opinion was for the New Deal, though, and, as a result, in February of 1937 Roosevelt tried to increase the number of Supreme Court justices in order to prevent future programs from being shuttered.﻿﻿﻿ Though he failed in this court-packing attempt, he succeeded in his objective. In May 1937, the Supreme Court declared the Social Security Act to be constitutional by a five-to-four vote after one of its justices changed his anti–New Deal stance. No other New Deal program was ever again judicially invalidated by the court.﻿﻿﻿






The New Deal was enacted in two parts: the first in 1933 and the second in 1935.﻿﻿


   History of the New Deal  

The New Deal is often broken into two segments. The “first” New Deal was launched in 1933 during the initial two years of the Roosevelt presidency. In addition to the NRA and AAA, it consisted of measures to stabilize the banking system (Emergency Banking Act), ensure bank deposit security (Banking Act of 1933, known as the Glass-Steagall Act), and increase confidence in the stock market (Securities Act of 1933).



The “second” New Deal, in 1935, introduced perhaps the program’s greatest and most enduring legacy: government-sponsored retirement plans in the form of Social Security. It also increased government employment (Works Progress Administration) and minimum wages (Fair Labor Standards Act).


  Was the New Deal a Success?  

Historians credit the New Deal with some success in reviving the country’s fortunes. The economy did slowly recover during the 1930s, confidence was restored to the banking system through federal deposit insurance, working conditions were improved, and labor unions strengthened the hand of workers.



It was World War II, however, that ultimately provided the impetus to get America fully back to work. The unprecedented spending worldwide on ships, arms, and planes propelled the country into full employment—a feat that the New Deal programs, despite their best efforts, were unable to achieve on their own.
What Are New Indications?  

New indications is a term pharmaceutical companies use to refer to new evidence signifying that there may be new applications for an existing drug or procedure. This type of news is closely followed by investors, who can access such findings through the press releases issued on companies’ investor relations pages.





Key Takeaways

New indications refers to news signifying that an existing drug may have a broader range of medical applications.Repurposing existing drugs in this manner can prove less costly than developing new drugs from scratch.Investors often view new indications as a bullish indicator, anticipating that the company in question will have access to new revenue streams at a relatively low cost.


   How New Indications Work  

New indications are an early sign that a particular drug or procedure may be worth investing in further. For example, a company that has already obtained regulatory approval for a particular drug would report new indications if their research suggests that additional applications for that drug might be possible. New indications are therefore viewed as a positive development by most investors because they could signify additional revenue-generating opportunities for a company’s existing drugs.



In the United States, companies must go through a rigorous and lengthy process in order to bring new drugs to the market. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) oversees the development and approval of new drugs through their New Drug Application (NDA) process. The process routinely takes years to complete, with some stretching over a decade. Despite this lengthy process, only about 30% of new applicants have their NDAs approved.





Important

Although repurposing an existing drug can lead to reduced research and development (R&D) costs, there are nevertheless major costs involved in obtaining final FDA approval for such repurposed drugs. Nevertheless, because these drugs have already passed through the FDA’s NDA process, many companies view them as a less risky investment as compared to developing new drugs from scratch.



For these reasons, one of the most efficient ways for pharmaceutical companies to expand into new markets would be to find new or expanded applications for products that have already received FDA approval. In fact, some companies specialize in repurposing already approved drugs in an effort to reach the commercialization of new medicines more quickly.


   Real-World Example of a New Indication  

New indications often appear in news releases for medical treatments and pharmaceutical companies when referring to drugs or equipment involved. For example, on Aug. 16, 2018, the FDA released a new indication approval for the drug Opdivo (nivolumab), which treats cancers such as advanced melanoma, advanced renal cell carcinoma, and advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.



When it was first approved in December 2014, this drug had a more narrow intended usage, specializing in patients with advanced melanoma that could not be removed with surgery or that no longer responded to other drugs. The new indication therefore represents an opportunity for the drug to be sold into a larger addressable market than previously anticipated.
What Is the New Economy?  

New economy is a buzzword to describe new, high-growth industries that are on the cutting edge of technology and are believed to be the driving force of economic growth and productivity. A new economy was first declared in the late 1990s as hi-tech tools, particularly the Internet and increasingly powerful computers, made their way into the consumer and business marketplace. The new economy was seen as a shift from a manufacturing and commodity-based economy to one that used technology to create new products and services at a rate that the traditional manufacturing economy could not match.





Key Takeaways

New economy is a buzzword that was used to add to the hype of what tech companies in the 1990s were promising in terms of new ways of doing business and earning a living.As originally coined, the new economy is here, with more people using technology in their daily lives.The companies at the forefront of the new economy have become larger than many of the traditional manufacturing companies they were predicted to replace in terms of importance.More recently, the term new economy has also been used to refer to a redesign of the capitalist system around environmental and social goals.


   Understanding the New Economy  

The idea that a new economy had arrived was part of the hysteria surrounding the tech bubble of the late 1990s and early 2000s. The new economy was variously heralded as the knowledge economy, the data economy, the ecommerce economy, and so on. Unfortunately for the long-term health of the new economy arising in the 90s, investors and financial institutions bid up technology sector stock prices to unprecedented highs without fully considering the fundamentals. The excitement around the tech sector did more harm than good, and the rate at which these firms were pushed to become the next Microsoft likely destroyed many potentially good business ideas in the pursuit of great ones.



Although the tech bubble has long since burst, many of the remaining firms like Google (Alphabet), Amazon, and Meta (formerly Facebook) remain very innovative and at the forefront of technology. Now the new economy is often used to describe different aspects of the technology sector beyond simple Internet presence and functionality. Since the tech boom of the 90s, we've seen the growth of many new and exciting subsectors in tech. These include the sharing economy, the streaming economy, the gig economy, cloud computing, big data, and artificial intelligence. As of 2020, the companies involved in tech, particularly Alphabet, Amazon, Meta, Microsoft, and Apple, have overtaken most companies in the world in terms of market cap.


   Are We in the New Economy?  

The question ever since the bursting of the tech bubble is, of course, whether or not the new economy is here or still on the horizon. Certainly the traditional manufacturing economy is being increasingly automated using innovations coming out of the tech sector. Of course, we still buy and sell products, but the service economy—enabled by technology—is becoming an ever-growing part of the global economy.



So we are definitely living in an economy that is qualitatively different from the one in the 1980s. Less people are employed in direct manufacturing and many of us are more anxious of being replaced by a machine than the old fear of having our job outsourced to a nation with a cheaper cost structure. Now that the new economy appears to be here, many people are not as confident that it was the one they wanted after all. 


   New Economy and the Restructuring of Capitalism  

Although the term new economy developed as an investment buzzword around the promise of early Internet companies to change the world, the term has also been associated with calls to redesign the global economic system. The demand for a new economy in term of a total redesign of global capitalism has been put forth by people who see this as a necessary step to meet social and environmental goals. In this context, a new economy is one that focuses less on driving profits to shareholders through management and more on good corporate citizenship, positive community impacts, and distributing asset ownership differently.



A complete overhaul of capitalism is quite challenging given the entrenched interests, although some investors have found ways to work within the system with ESG investing. This approach rewards companies that act in ways that are more socially and environmentally beneficial even if doing so limits bottom line profits. The impact of this movement is just starting to be felt in the publicly traded market and has yet to reach private equity and the more aggressive corners of finance.



While the new economy in the technology sense was largely welcomed and is just now being regretted by those who were negatively impacted, a new economy in terms of restructuring our capitalist system around social, environmental, and sustainability goals has faced stiff resistance. This resistance against change within the system has slowed progress and encouraged more people, particularly younger people bearing the brunt of economic inequality and longer term externalities, in calling for the whole economic system to be changed.
What Is a New Fund Offer (NFO)?  

A new fund offer (NFO) is the first subscription offering for any new fund offered by an investment company. A new fund offer occurs when a fund is launched, allowing the firm to raise capital for purchasing securities. Mutual funds are one of the most common new fund offerings marketed by an investment company. The initial purchasing offer for a new fund varies by the fund’s structuring.





Key Takeaways

A new fund offer (NFO) refers to the initial sale of fund shares issued by an investment company to investors.Similar to an IPO in the stock market, NFOs are intended to raise capital for the fund and attract investors.Even though NFOs are marketed, they are done less aggressively so than IPOs, and target certain select groups of investors. As a result, new fund issues may be less noticeable to individual investors than IPOs.Investors should check an NFO's expense ratio and the performance of previous funds offered by the investment company before deciding to invest in an NFO.Investors looking to research new fund launches can monitor the press releases of various investment companies as well as news outlets dedicated to aggregating the latest fund news.


   Understanding New Fund Offers (NFOs)  

A new fund offer is similar to an initial public offering (IPO). Both represent attempts to raise capital to further operations. New fund offers can be accompanied by aggressive marketing campaigns, created to entice investors to purchase units in the fund. New fund offers often have the potential for significant gains after beginning to trade publicly.


   Types of New Fund Offers  

Mutual funds are the most common type of new fund offering. New fund offerings can be for open-end or closed-end mutual funds. New exchange-traded funds are also first offered through a new fund offering. Below are details on how to invest in a few of the market’s common types of new fund offerings.


  Open-End Fund  

In a new fund offer, an open-end fund will announce new shares for purchase on a specified launch day. Open-end funds do not limit their number of shares. These funds can be bought and sold from a brokerage firm on their initial launch date and thereafter. The shares do not trade on an exchange and are managed by the fund company and/or fund company affiliates. Open-end mutual funds report net asset values daily after the market’s close.



Fund companies can launch new fund offers for new strategies or add additional shares classes to existing strategies. One example of a new open-end fund launch is VanEck’s offering of two new share classes in the VanEck Morningstar Wide Moat strategy (Class I shares: MWMIX; Class Z shares: MWMZX).


  Closed-End Fund  

Closed-end new fund offers are often some of the most highly marketed new fund issuances since closed-end funds only issue a specified number of shares during their new fund offer. Closed-end funds trade on an exchange with daily price quotes throughout the day. Investors can buy closed-end funds on their launch date through a brokerage firm.



One example of a new closed-end fund offer is the BNY Mellon Alcentra Global Credit Income 2024 Target Term Fund, Inc. (DCF). DCF raised $140 million from its new fund offer.


  Exchange-Traded Fund  

New exchange-traded funds (ETFs) are also launched through a new fund offer. An exchange-traded fund is a type of investment fund that can be publicly traded on the stock market. On April 7, 2021, Vanguard launched the Vanguard Ultra-Short Bond ETF (VUSB). According to Vanguard, the "objective is to seek to provide current income while maintaining limited price volatility. The fund invests in a diversified portfolio of high-quality and, to a lesser extent, medium-quality fixed-income securities. The fund is expected to maintain a dollar-weighted average maturity of 0 to 2 years."



VUSB has a low expense ratio of 0.10%.


   Launches and Alerts  

Often, new fund offers are not widely publicized making them challenging to identify. Companies must register a new fund offering with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) offering one method of tracking. Investors seeking information on new fund offers prior to their launch date may also receive alerts from their brokerage firm. News outlets and news aggregators are also good sources for information on new fund offers. Sources such as the Closed-End Fund Center provide details on new fund offers.



Companies will also issue press releases on new fund offers. For example, you can find Vanguard's statement on the launch of their latest ETF on their website.



One of the most talked-about exchange-traded fund launches in recent years came in October 2021, when trading began on the very first bitcoin-related ETF, ProShares Bitcoin Strategy ETF (BITO).





7,502

Number of active mutual funds in the United States, as of April 2022.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of an NFO  

Investing in a new mutual fund may seem like an exciting way to diversify your portfolio, however, there are some concerns you should know about before doing so. For example, many investment companies launch a new fund when the market is rich and investors are hungry to get in on the latest new industry or sector of the economy. However just because a certain technology or industry is booming now does not mean it will remain popular in the future. Furthermore, a new fund offer often comes with a higher expense ratio than normal.



Another big risk of investing in an NFO is also one of the most obvious—the fund has no track record of success (or failure). While some bullish investors may look at this as an opportunity for large profits, there is also a serious risk in investing in a fund whose performance you cannot track.





Large upside 

Access to emerging sector of the economy
Provides ability to diversify portfolio



Unproven track record

Potentially larger expense ratio
Emerging technology or industry the fund tracks may be overvalued







What Is the Meaning of NFO?
A new fund offer, or NFO, is the first offering of an open-end, closed-end, or exchange-traded fund to investors by an investment company.




Is It Good to Invest in an NFO?
While investing in an NFO may present an opportunity for large profits, investors should be wary of investing their money into a fund with no proven track record of success.




How Do I Choose an NFO?
Investors can research new launches of funds either by monitoring various investment companies' press releases or by checking NFO-related news aggregate sites such as the Closed-End Fund Center.




Which Is the Best NFO to Invest in?
Of course, there is no surefire method to predict with complete certainty a fund's success, particularly a brand new one. However, investors should look for a lower expense ratio, and monitor the performance of the other funds offered by the investment company before investing in an NFO.
What Is New Growth Theory?  

The new growth theory is an economic concept, positing that humans' desires and unlimited wants foster ever-increasing productivity and economic growth. It argues that real gross domestic product (GDP) per person will perpetually increase because of people's pursuit of profits.





Key Takeaways

The new growth theory presumes the desire and wants of the populace will drive ongoing productivity and economic growth.A central tenet of new growth theory is that competition squeezes profit, forcing people to constantly seek better ways to do things or invent new products in order to maximize profitability.The theory emphasizes the importance of entrepreneurship, knowledge, innovation, and technology, rejecting the popular view that economic growth is determined by external, uncontrollable forces.Knowledge is treated as an asset for growth that is not subject to finite restrictions ordiminishing returns like other assets such as capital or real estate.


   Understanding New Growth Theory  

The new growth theory offered a fresh take on what engineers economic prosperity. It emphasizes the importance of entrepreneurship, knowledge, innovation, and technology, challenging the view of exogenous growth in neoclassical economics that economic progress is determined by external, uncontrollable forces.



Competition squeezes profit, so people have to constantly seek better ways to do things or invent new products in order to maximize profitability. This concept is one of the central tenets of the new growth theory.



The theory argues that innovation and new technologies do not occur simply by random chance. Rather, it depends on the number of people seeking out new innovations or technologies and how hard they are looking for them. People also have control over their knowledge capital—what to study, how hard to study, etc. If the profit incentive is great enough, people will choose to grow human capital and look harder for new innovations.



A significant aspect of the new growth theory is the idea that knowledge is treated as an asset for growth that is not subject to finite restrictions or diminishing returns like other assets such as capital or real estate. Knowledge is an intangible quality, rather than physical, and can be a resource grown within an organization or industry.


   New Growth Theory Example  

Under the new growth theory, nurturing innovation internally is one of the reasons for organizations to invest in human capital. By creating opportunities and making resources available within an organization, the expectation is that individuals will be encouraged to develop new concepts and technology for the consumer market.



For example, a large enterprise might allow part of its staff to work on independent, internal projects that may develop into new innovations or companies. In some ways, the enterprise lets them function like startups being incubated inside the organization.



The desire of the employees to launch a new innovation is spurred by the possibility of generating more profits for themselves and the enterprise. This can be especially true in the United States, as commerce is increasingly driven by service-type companies. Software and app development may take place within companies, following the new growth theory.



Achieving such knowledge-driven growth requires a sustained investment in human capital. This can create an environment for skilled professionals to have an opportunity to not only fulfill their primary jobs but also explore the creation of new services that can be of benefit and use to the broader public.


   Special Considerations  

New growth theorists believe that companies generally undervalue the usefulness of knowledge and, as a result, argue that it is mainly up to governments to invest in human capital. Governments are encouraged to facilitate access to better education, as well as provide support and incentives for private-sector research and development (R&D).
What are New Home Sales?  

New Home Sales, also known as "new residential sales," is an economic indicator published monthly by the U.S Census Bureau that measures sales of newly built homes.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

New Home Sales, also known as "new residential sales," is an economic indicator that measures sales of newly built homes.New Home Sales is viewed as a lagging indicator of demand, but is still closely watched by investors for clues about the broader movements in the economy.New Home Sales data is based on a representative sample of home sales and is driven by factors such as household income, unemployment, and interest rates.


   Understanding New Home Sales  

New Home Sales is monitored closely by investors because it is viewed as a lagging indicator of real estate market demand and, therefore, a factor impacting mortgage rates. It is driven by factors such as household income, unemployment, and interest rates.



The U.S. Census Bureau publishes two versions of the New Home Sales measure: the seasonally adjusted figure and a non-adjusted figure. The adjusted figure (which adjusts for seasonal factors such as the weather) is shown as an annual total, while the non-adjusted figure is shown as a monthly total. These figures are given for different regions and for the country as a whole.﻿﻿﻿



New Home Sales data and other internal metrics, such as the absorption rate, are closely monitored by market participants as changes can be predictive of broader movements in the economy, such as the onset of a recession or the beginning of an economic recovery.



The data for the New Home Sales measure is compiled by conducting interviews with home-builders and by looking at data from the U.S. Census Bureau's Survey of Construction. Specifically, it uses data regarding building permits issued for new construction projects. A new home is included in the measure if a deposit was paid for the purchase of that home, or if a contract to purchase the home was signed within or following the year of its construction.﻿﻿﻿﻿



The seasonally adjusted figures are intended to remove the effect of factors such as seasonal weather or the overall business cycle. The idea behind seasonal adjustments is to give market participants a clearer sense of the underlying demand for new homes, independent from other factors affecting the economy. To help maintain data quality, ongoing revisions are made and published as new data becomes available.






Given the vast amount of transactions occurring throughout the economy, the Census Bureau relies on statistical techniques and sampling methodologies to estimate New Home Sales data from a small portion of total transactions. As with any statistical method, these procedures create a modest margin of error, which is included with the monthly reports.


   New Home Sales Data Interpretation  

Financial publications report on New Home Sales data and often provide interpretations of that data for readers following market news. For example, the Wall Street Journal reported in July 2019 that purchases of single-family homes increased by 7% relative to the previous month, a good sign following two months of declining sales.



In interpreting these results, the Journal quoted experts who attributed the positive results to increased demand for lower-cost “starter homes” which they attributed to low unemployment, growing household incomes, and low interest rates.
What Are New Indications?  

New indications is a term pharmaceutical companies use to refer to new evidence signifying that there may be new applications for an existing drug or procedure. This type of news is closely followed by investors, who can access such findings through the press releases issued on companies’ investor relations pages.





Key Takeaways

New indications refers to news signifying that an existing drug may have a broader range of medical applications.Repurposing existing drugs in this manner can prove less costly than developing new drugs from scratch.Investors often view new indications as a bullish indicator, anticipating that the company in question will have access to new revenue streams at a relatively low cost.


   How New Indications Work  

New indications are an early sign that a particular drug or procedure may be worth investing in further. For example, a company that has already obtained regulatory approval for a particular drug would report new indications if their research suggests that additional applications for that drug might be possible. New indications are therefore viewed as a positive development by most investors because they could signify additional revenue-generating opportunities for a company’s existing drugs.



In the United States, companies must go through a rigorous and lengthy process in order to bring new drugs to the market. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) oversees the development and approval of new drugs through their New Drug Application (NDA) process. The process routinely takes years to complete, with some stretching over a decade. Despite this lengthy process, only about 30% of new applicants have their NDAs approved.





Important

Although repurposing an existing drug can lead to reduced research and development (R&D) costs, there are nevertheless major costs involved in obtaining final FDA approval for such repurposed drugs. Nevertheless, because these drugs have already passed through the FDA’s NDA process, many companies view them as a less risky investment as compared to developing new drugs from scratch.



For these reasons, one of the most efficient ways for pharmaceutical companies to expand into new markets would be to find new or expanded applications for products that have already received FDA approval. In fact, some companies specialize in repurposing already approved drugs in an effort to reach the commercialization of new medicines more quickly.


   Real-World Example of a New Indication  

New indications often appear in news releases for medical treatments and pharmaceutical companies when referring to drugs or equipment involved. For example, on Aug. 16, 2018, the FDA released a new indication approval for the drug Opdivo (nivolumab), which treats cancers such as advanced melanoma, advanced renal cell carcinoma, and advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.



When it was first approved in December 2014, this drug had a more narrow intended usage, specializing in patients with advanced melanoma that could not be removed with surgery or that no longer responded to other drugs. The new indication therefore represents an opportunity for the drug to be sold into a larger addressable market than previously anticipated.
What Is a New Issue?  

A new issue refers to a stock or bond offering that is made for the first time. Most new issues come from privately held companies that become public, presenting investors with new opportunities.



The typical route for a new issue via a stock offering is known as an initial public offering (IPO), where a company's stock is offered to the public through various exchanges, such as the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) or Nasdaq for the first time. New issues of bonds work the same way. Both forms of new issues are intended to raise capital for the issuing company.



 A new issue may be contrasted with a seasoned issue.





Key Takeaways

New issues, whether stocks or bonds, are a means of raising capital for a company.New equity shares are often issued via an initial public offering (IPO), allowing investors to buy the stock of a previously private company for the first time.Bonds, preferreds, and convertible securities may also be disseminated as new issues to raise debt capital for a firm.Bonds as new issues are considered a form of debt financing, while stocks and IPOs as new issues are considered a form of equity financing.Investors should be aware of the "hype" surrounding a new issue like an IPO, as it could go one way or the other.Companies that are already public can make a new issue through a secondary offering.


   Understanding a New Issue  

A new issue is conducted as a means of raising capital for a company. Firms have two main choices: issuing debt (i.e., borrowing) or issuing equity in the form of stock (i.e., selling a portion of the company).



Regardless of which route they take, they will be making a new issue when those securities are offered for sale. Governments will also create new issues of sovereign debt in the form of Treasury securities in order to raise funds for government operations.



Using the debt route (i.e., issuing bonds), the new issue will be scrutinized based on the creditworthiness of the issuer to repay its obligations and its overall financial strength. If the firm is a startup with no revenue, issuing bonds may be an option that is not readily available.






There is a risk of "hype" around a new issue, sometimes causing a company's shares to surge after its IPO, and then only plummet after the hype has worn off. Investors need to be careful when investing in new issues. 



However, the stock route may still be available if they are able to convince investors that the company has long term potential. This is where venture capital (VC) and private equity firms may become involved, helping the company to develop and thrive in exchange for ownership in the new firm.



If successful, the company may then seek to make a new issue through an IPO and go public. Companies that are already public may originate another new issue later on via a secondary offering.


   Example of a New Issue  

Say a new IT company has developed a program to make cash exchanges easily available worldwide. It has been successful in both generating revenues and garnering interest from the venture capital community. To grow, however, it believes it needs more capital, approximately $30 million, which it doesn't have on hand. As such, it needs to raise this capital through external sources.



The company engages with investment banks to see what their shares could be worth on the open market, and the banks' underwriters indicate that $19 per share would be a fair IPO price, valuing the company at just under $100 million.



The company’s board of directors agrees to list shares of the company and they file for an IPO to release a number of shares worth half the total valuation, so $50 million. With the new issue, the company raises capital and becomes listed on a stock exchange where its shares are freely tradeable.



The new issue resulted in the company raising $50 million, slightly more than the $30 million they estimated that they needed for growth. Because the company did not list all of its shares, it still has retained a significant portion of ownership.
What Is New Keynesian Economics?  

New Keynesian economics is a modern macroeconomic school of thought that evolved from classical Keynesian economics. This revised theory differs from classical Keynesian thinking in terms of how quickly prices and wages adjust.



New Keynesian advocates maintain that prices and wages are "sticky," meaning they adjust more slowly to short-term economic fluctuations. This, in turn, explains such economic factors as involuntary unemployment and the impact of federal monetary policies.





Key Takeaways

New Keynesian economics is a modern twist on the macroeconomic doctrine that evolved from classical Keynesian economics principles.Economists argued that prices and wages are “sticky," causing involuntary unemployment and monetary policy to have a big impact on the economy.This way of thinking became the dominant force in academic macroeconomics from the 1990s through to the financial crisis of 2008.


   Understanding New Keynesian Economics  

British economist John Maynard Keynes' idea in the aftermath of the Great Depression that increased government expenditures and lower taxes can stimulate demand and pull the global economy out of a downturn became the dominant way of thinking for much of the 20th century. That slowly began to change in 1978 when After Keynesian Economics was published.



In the paper, new classical economists Robert Lucas and Thomas Sargent pointed out that the stagflation experienced during the 1970s was incompatible with traditional Keynesian models.



Lucas, Sargent, and others sought to build on Keynes’ original theory by adding microeconomic foundations to it. The two major areas of microeconomics that may significantly impact the macroeconomy, they said, are price and wage rigidity. These concepts intertwine with social theory, negating the pure theoretical models of classical Keynesianism.





Important

New Keynesian economics became the dominant force in academic macroeconomics from the 1990s through to the financial crisis of 2008.



The new Keynesian theory attempted to address, among other things, the sluggish behavior of prices and its cause, and how market failures could be triggered by inefficiencies and might justify government intervention. The benefits of government intervention remain a flashpoint for debate. New Keynesian economists made a case for expansionary monetary policy, arguing that deficit spending encourages saving, rather than increasing demand or economic growth.


   Criticism of New Keynesian Economics  

New Keynesian economics was criticized in some quarters for failing to see the Great Recession coming and for not accurately accounting for the period of secular stagnation that followed it.



The main issue of this economic doctrine is explaining why changes in aggregate price levels are “sticky.” Under new classical macroeconomics, competitive price-taking companies make choices on how much output to produce, and not at what price, while in New Keynesian economics, monopolistically competitive companies set their prices and accept the level of sales as a constraint.



From a New Keynesian economics point of view, two main arguments try to answer why aggregate prices fail to imitate the nominal gross national product (GNP) evolution. Principally, under both approaches to macroeconomics, it is assumed economic agents, households, and companies have rational expectations.



However, New Keynesian economics maintains that rational expectations become distorted as market failure arises from asymmetric information and imperfect competition. As economic agents can’t have a full scope of the economic reality, their information will be limited. There will be little reason to believe that other agents will change their prices, and, as a result, they will keep their expectations unchanged. As such, expectations are a crucial element of price determination; as they remain unaltered, so will price, which leads to price rigidity.
What Is New Paradigm?  

In investing, a new paradigm is a revolutionary new concept or way of doing things that replaces old beliefs and ways of doing things.





Key Takeaways

A new paradigm is a new way of thinking or doing things that replaces the old way.New paradigms in the stock world can mean great profit potential as investors pile into revolutionary new ideas.Investors in new paradigm ideas should tread cautiously as prices can become too inflated based on hype.


   Understanding New Paradigm  

New paradigms are rooted in the idea of paradigm shifts, in which technology or new findings completely change the way people think about or interact with a subject. Investors can watch new paradigms unfold before their eyes as they track companies that are on the frontier of innovation. A stock may soar based on its revolutionary way of doing things.



New paradigms may stem from a political or economic event, a new finding in academia, new technology or innovation, a new business or business leader, or another important occurrence. New paradigm ideas are so revolutionary that many people believe how we think and act going forward will fundamentally change.



Investors need to be aware, though, that not all new paradigms pan out. While companies like Amazon (AMZN)—which anticipated the demand for internet shopping and capitalized on it—saw great success, not all companies do. The pharmaceutical sector is filled with companies "on the verge" of making world-changing discoveries, yet many treatments never leave the developmental stage. Their stocks may (or may not) pop higher on speculative demand, only to fall right back to where they started, or lower.



Investors who bet on the companies that really do start a new paradigm, or capitalize on one, can make a lot of money over the long run, but finding these companies isn't easy. These companies are often highly speculative, have negative earnings, and are misunderstood in their early stages. It is only during later stages, once the price of the stock has moved up significantly, that most investors acknowledge the paradigm shift and start to jump on. This can create a lot of volatility, making it hard for investors to stick with new paradigm stocks for the long haul.



Amazon is a case in point. Between 1997 and 2009, Amazon stock had seven drops of 60% or more, and the stock dropped by 95% between 2000 and 2001. After its initial public offering (IPO) the stock dropped by 46% before rallying off its lows of $1.50 per share. Some early investors may have profited handsomely but would have likely been shaken out by the many severe drops well before the stock price eclipsed $3,500 in 2020.



While Amazon thrived coming out of the dotcom bubble—which was based on the new paradigm of the internet—many of the other internet stocks did not. It took many years for dotcoms to reclaim price levels achieve in 2000. Even Amazon didn't definitively move above its year 2000 high until 2009.






New paradigms don't always initially succeed. Many dotcom companies went bankrupt after the dotcom bubble, for example, and those that survived did so at significantly lower stock prices.



New paradigms are often followed by a reckoning because investors overestimate how much will change. They drive up valuations too high, and the prices fall significantly after reality sets in. Ultimately, companies have to produce profits to justify high stock prices. If the companies can't generate profits, no matter how novel their idea or product, investors will eventually grow weary and abandon the stock.


   New Paradigm Examples  

The term "new paradigm" became a widely used phrase in the 1990s, as marketing firms and businesses began to use the term for almost any new product or campaign. It was notably used during the dotcom boom years. At times, it seemed that anything and everything involved with the internet was described as a "new paradigm" or a "paradigm shift."



The years in the late 1990s were characterized by high-flying tech stocks that eventually crashed. From 1995 to 2000, the technology-dominated NASDAQ index rose from below 1,000 points to more than 5,000 points. Technology companies became a new paradigm for investors and analysts as their products and modes of thinking had the ability to fundamentally change the way that businesses operated and grew. The internet certainly did change things, but investors initially valued the companies too high. Their real value, at the time, was considerably lower than the peak prices to which investors drove these companies.



The Great Recession also provided a new paradigm for many investors, as the notion of rooting out and supporting more sustainable investments came into the limelight. It became important to some investors and asset managers to consider environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors when investing. As became evident with the housing bubble and crisis, complex financial instruments like mortgage-backed securities without sound underlying assets proved disastrous.
What Is the New York Board of Trade (NYBOT)?  

Founded in 1870, the New York Board of Trade (NYBOT) is a commodity futures exchange located in New York. In 2006, it became part of the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE).



For much of its history, the NYBOT facilitated commodities trading using human traders in large trading floors, or "pits." Today, the vast majority of this trading is conducted through computers.





Key Takeaways

The New York Board of Trade (NYBOT) is a commodity futures exchange that today forms part of the ICE since 2006.NYBOT previously specialized in physical commodities such as sugar and coffee, but has become all-electronic since incorporation into the ICE.The NYBOT is one of the oldest asset exchanges in the U.S., dating back to 1870.


   Understanding the New York Board of Trade (NYBOT)  

The NYBOT is focused on physical commodities such as coffee, cotton, and cocoa. By allowing these commodities to be traded indirectly using futures contracts, institutions such as the NYBOT allow the producers and buyers of these commodities to lock in prices ahead of time in order to protect against unforeseen volatility or production shortages.



With standardized futures contracts, companies dependent on these commodities can buy them at predetermined prices for later delivery weeks, months, or even years in the future. In doing so, they can be more certain of the cost of their raw materials, regardless of how the spot prices of those commodities may fluctuate in the interim period. The Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) plays a similar role, facilitating futures trading in commodities such as livestock, metals, and crude oil.



When the NYBOT was founded in 1870, trading was conducted exclusively by humans, often working on large and loud trading floors. In 1997, the NYBOT acquired the Coffee, Sugar, and Cocoa Exchange (CSCE), increasing their foothold in the commodity trading marketplace. This combined entity was then purchased by the ICE in 2006.


   Real World Example of the New York Board of Trade (NYBOT)  

A few years after the ICE acquired the NYBOT, the traditional trading floors were closed off so that all trades would be executed electronically. Today, the ICE operates as an entirely electronic exchange, enabling near-instant transactions among market participants throughout the world. 



This move toward digitization has also corresponded with a vast increase in the size of the commodities trading markets themselves. As its name suggests, the ICE is a truly international marketplace in which traders can transact in commodities ranging from electricity and jet fuel to derivative products based on interest rates, currency values, and various other underlying assets.
What Is the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX)?  

The New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) is the world's largest physical commodity futures exchange and is today part of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange Group (CME Group), which is the world’s leading and most diverse derivatives marketplace. CME Group consists of four exchanges: Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME), Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT), NYMEX, and the Commodity Exchange, Inc. (COMEX). Each exchange lists a wide range of futures products, commodities, and global benchmarks across major asset classes. 





Key Takeaways

NYMEX is a commodities trading exchange that started in 1872 and was acquired by CME Group in 2008.The exchange lists futures and options on various metals, energy, and agricultural commodities.NYMEX was once an open-outcry market with trading pits, but like most exchanges today, it has become increasingly electronic.NYMEX trading is a large percentage of the total trading done by CME.NYMEX's contribution to the CME group from the acquisition was a substantial selection of energy products, metal contracts, and agricultural contracts.


   Understanding the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX)  

An early version of NYMEX started in 1872 when a group of dairy merchants founded the Butter and Cheese Exchange of New York. In 1994, NYMEX merged with COMEX to become the largest physical commodity exchange at that time. By 2008, NYMEX was not able to commercially survive on its own in the wake of the global financial crisis and merged with the CME Group of Chicago. The merger brought a list of energy, precious metal, and agricultural products to the CME Group of exchanges.



Futures and options on energy, precious metals, and agricultural commodities are sometimes used to speculate, but are also tools for companies, farmers, and other industries that want to manage risk by hedging positions. The ease with which these instruments are traded on the exchanges is vital to creating protective positions (hedges) and gauging futures prices, making NYMEX an important part of the trading and hedging worlds.



Daily exchange volume of the CME Group is around 30 million contracts with NYMEX making up about 10% of that amount because of the physical commodities that are traded on that exchange. Much larger volumes are traded in interest rate futures, options, and forward contracts that trade on the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT).



NYMEX is regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), which is an independent agency of the United States government tasked with the promotion of competitive and efficient futures markets as well as the protection of investors against manipulation, abusive trade practices, and fraud.


   Limitations of the NYMEX  

NYMEX is an open-outcry trading platform, where traders meet to haggle and agree on a market price for a commodity. Given that stock and commodity trading predates the invention of the telegraph, the telephone, or the computer by hundreds of years, it is fairly obvious that face-to-face human trading and trading pits were the standard way of doing business for a long time.



Today, however, open-outcry trading is on the decline, and the number of trading pits has dwindled. NYMEX has increasingly introduced electronic trading systems since 2006. In fact, given the cost benefits of the electronic systems and investor preference for fast order execution, a substantial percentage of the world's exchanges have already converted to electronic networks. At this point, the United States is more or less alone in maintaining open-outcry exchanges.




What Gets Traded on the NY Mercantile Exchange?
Trading on the NYMEX includes a wide variety of trading options such as oil futures, metals futures, energy futures, and other commodities like agricultural products and others. Unlike other market types, NYMEX doesn't trade in options or equities.




What Is a Mercantile Exchange?
The dictionary definition of a mercantile exchange is "a market for trading commodities."These types of markets are legal entities that determine and enforce rules for trading standardized commodity contracts and related investment products. These types of markets trade trillions of dollars per day and are done almost entirely by electronic trading.




What Is the Difference Between CME and CBOT?
CME is the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and trades similarly to the NYMEX, that is to say, that it trades in commodities and futures and includes energy, metals, etc. CBOT is the Chicago Board of Trade and while it is now under the CME umbrella, before the merger in 2006 the CBOT used vastly different rules, regulations, trading engines, and traded with different offerings.


   The Bottom Line  

The New York Mercantile Exchange is one of four exchanges owned and managed by the CME Group. The exchange deals with trades centered around commodities and futures. NYMEX specializes in energy, precious metals, and agricultural commodities.
What Is the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)?  

The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) is a stock exchange located in New York City that is the largest equities-based exchange in the world, based on the total market capitalization of its listed securities.



Formerly run as a private organization, the NYSE became a public entity on March 8, 2006, following the acquisition of electronic trading exchange Archipelago. In 2007, a merger with Euronext—the largest stock exchange in Europe—led to the creation of NYSE Euronext, which was later acquired by Intercontinental Exchange, Inc. (ICE), the current parent of the New York Stock Exchange.





Key Takeaways

The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), which dates back to 1792, is the largest stock exchange in the world based on the total market capitalization of its listed securities.It was the first formalized stock exchange established in the United States.Many of the oldest publicly traded U.S. companies are listed on the "Big Board," the nickname for the NYSE.The Intercontinental Exchange (ICE) now owns the NYSE, having purchased the exchange in 2013.


   Understanding the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)  

Located on Wall Street in New York City, the New York Stock Exchange—also known as the "Big Board"— consists of one trading floor for equities and another for the NYSE American options exchange. The main building located at 18 Broad St. and the one at 11 Wall St. were both designated historical landmarks in 1978.



The NYSE relied for many years on floor trading only, using the open outcry system. Many NYSE trades have transitioned to electronic systems relying mainly on designated market makers to conduct both the physical and automated auctions. Quotes offered by DMMs are on par with what floor traders and other market participants offer.



Currently, the NYSE is open for trading Monday through Friday from 9:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. ET. The stock exchange is closed on certain U.S. holidays. When these fall on a Saturday, the NYSE is sometimes closed the preceding Friday. When holidays fall on a Sunday, the NYSE may be closed the following Monday.






The NYSE is the world's largest stock exchange by total market capitalization of listed companies, which is estimated to be $24.6 trillion as of Mid-2022.


   The NYSE's Opening and Closing Bells  

The opening and closing bells of the exchange mark the beginning and end of the trading day. The opening bell is rung at 9:30 a.m. ET, and the closing bell is rung at 4:00 p.m. ET, closing trading for the day. But trading days did not always begin and end with a bell—the original signal was actually a gavel. During the late 1800s, the NYSE changed the gavel to a gong. The bell became the official signal for the exchange in 1903 when the NYSE moved to 18 Broad St.



Prior to 1995, the exchange's floor managers rang the bells. But the NYSE began inviting company executives to ring the opening and closing bells on a regular basis, which later became a daily event. The executives are from companies listed on the exchange, who sometimes coordinate their appearances with marketing events, such as the launch of a new product or innovation, or a merger or acquisition.



Sometimes, other public figures, such as athletes and celebrities, ring the bell. Some of the more notable figures to ring it include singer/actor Liza Minnelli, Olympic medalist Michael Phelps, and rapper Snoop Dogg. In July 2013, United Nations Secretary Ban Ki-moon rang the closing bell to mark the NYSE joining the U.N. Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative. 










The New York Stock Exchange passed the milestone of one million shares traded in a single day in 1888. By 2022, more than five billion shares were changing hands on the NYSE during a normal business day.


   History of the NYSE  

The New York Stock Exchange dates back to May 17, 1792. On that day, 24 stockbrokers from New York City signed the Buttonwood Agreement at 68 Wall St. The New York Stock Exchange kicked off with five securities, which included three government bonds and two bank stocks.



Thanks to the NYSE's head start as the major U.S. stock exchange, many of the oldest publicly traded companies are on the exchange. Consolidated Edison (ED) is the longest-listed NYSE stock, joining in 1824 as the New York Gas Light Company. Along with American stocks, foreign-based corporations can also list their shares on the NYSE if they adhere to certain listing standards.



A series of mergers has given the New York Stock Exchange its massive size and global presence. The company started as NYSE before merging with the Euronext and adding the American Stock Exchange. NYSE Euronext was purchased in an $11 billion deal by the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE) in 2013. The following year, Euronext emerged from ICE via an initial public offering (IPO), but ICE retained ownership of the NYSE.


   A Few Notable Dates in the NYSE’s History  

Oct. 24, 1929: The most devastating stock market crash in the history of the U.S. began on Black Thursday and continued into a sell-off panic on Black Tuesday, Oct. 29. It followed the crash of the London Stock Exchange, which took place in September and signaled the onset of the Great Depression, which affected all of the industrialized countries in the West. 
Oct. 1, 1934: The NYSE registered as a national securities exchange with the SEC.
Oct. 19, 1987: The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) dropped 508 points or a loss of 22.6% in a single day.
Sept. 11, 2001: Trading was shut down for four days at the NYSE following the 9/11 attacks and resumed on Sept. 17. About $1.4 trillion was lost in the five days of trading following the reopening—the biggest losses in NYSE history.
October 2008: NYSE Euronext completed the acquisition of the American Stock Exchange for $260 million in stock.
May 6, 2010: The DJIA suffered its largest intraday drop since the crash of Oct. 19, 1987. It dropped 998 points in what is known as the 2010 Flash Crash.
Dec. 20, 2012: ICE proposed to buy NYSE Euronext in a stock swap worth $8 billion.
May 1, 2014: The NYSE was fined $4.5 million by the Securities and Exchange Commission in order to settle charges of market rule violations.
May 25, 2018: Stacey Cunningham became the first female president of the NYSE.
March 16, 2020: The onset of COVID-19 pandemic fears led to the DJIA suffering its largest daily point drop in history as it fell 2,997.10 points from the previous close. Percentage-wise, it was the third worst day ever.
March 23, 2020: The NYSE temporarily closed floor trading due to the COVID-19 pandemic, opting to continue its operations electronically.
March 24, 2020: The DJIA recorded its largest one-day point gain on expectation of a stimulus relief bill. Percentage-wise, it was the fifth best day ever. 




Who Owns the New York Stock Exchange?
The NYSE was acquired by the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE) group in 2013.




Where Is the Oldest Stock Exchange in the World?
The Amsterdam Stock Exchange (AEX) in the Netherlands is the oldest stock exchange, established in 1602 by the Dutch East India Company. Today the Amsterdam exchange is owned by Euronext.




What Is the Largest Stock Exchange in the World?
The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) remains the largest stock exchange in the world in terms of the market capitalization of the companies listed on it. The NASDAQ ranked second, followed by the Shanghai Stock Exchange, and the Euronext.


   The Bottom Line  

The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) is the oldest and most influential securities exchange in the United States, and is the largest stock exchange in the world by total listed company market cap. With humble beginnings under a buttonwood tree in Manhattan, the NYSE is now a landmark that epitomizes Wall Street. Today, the NYSE lists the most important publicly-traded American companies and is still seen as the premier venue for stock trading.
What Is a Newly Industrialized Country? (NIC)  

A newly industrialized country (NIC) is a term used by political scientists and economists to describe a country whose level of economic development ranks it somewhere between developing and highly developed classifications. These countries have moved away from an agriculture-based economy and into a more industrialized, urban economy. Experts also know them as "newly industrializing economies" or "advanced developing countries."





Key Takeaways

A newly industrialized country (NIC) is one whose economic development is between developing and highly developed classifications.The most significant sign that a country is evolving into a NIC is substantial growth in gross domestic product, even if that growth falls short of developed nations.Which countries should be included on a list of existing NICs is open to some debate among experts and economists.Highly developed countries might find opportunities, such as outsourcing, in newly industrialized countries.


   Understanding Newly Industrialized Country  

In the 1970s and 1980s, examples of newly industrialized countries included Hong Kong, South Korea, Singapore, and Taiwan. Examples in the late 2000s included South Africa, Mexico, Brazil, China, India, Malaysia, the Philippines, Thailand, and Turkey. Economists and political scientists sometimes disagree over the classification of these countries.






Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea, and Taiwan are NICs collectively known as the Four Asian Tigers.



A NIC is part of a socioeconomic class that has recently made advances in industrialization. Greater economic stability within the nation accompanies this economic shift although this process of stabilization may be incomplete or in a stage of infancy.


   Transition Signs from Third World to Newly Industrialized Country  

A primary indication of a country's transition to a NIC is substantial growth in the gross domestic product (GDP), even if it falls behind developed nations. Often, increases in average income and the standard of living are markers of the transition from a developing country to a NIC. Government structures are usually more stable with lower levels of corruption and less violent shifts of power between officials. Though the changes are significant, outpacing those of similar developing nations, they often lack the standards set by most developed countries.


   Relations Between NICs and Highly Developed Nations  

Developed countries may see opportunities in the growing stability of a newly industrialized country. These opportunities could lead to additional outsourcing by companies to facilities within NICs. These movements may lower labor costs for outsourcing companies with less risk compared to outsourcing to less stable nations. While this can increase the strength of the labor force within the NIC, complications can occur with the increased demand because the government may not have fully established laws and regulations in surrounding industries.


   Real-World Example  

Since there is no exact qualification or definition for a NIC, the list of existing NICs is open to some debate. Based on the shift among economies from agricultural development to more industrial pursuits and recent improvements in average standards of living, economies that experts typically include as NICs are China (specifically Hong Kong), India, Singapore, Taiwan, and Turkey. Others may include Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, and Thailand.



In a 2014 United Nations report called the World Economic Situations and Prospects, states that all nations are categorized into one of three classifications for analytical reasons. These categories are developed economies, economies in transition, and developing economies.
What Is a News Trader?  

A news trader is a trader or investor who makes decisions based on news announcements. Breaking news, economic reports, and other reported events can have a short-lived effect on the price action of stocks, bonds, and other securities. News traders try to profit by taking advantage of market sentiment leading up to the release of important news and/or trading on the market's response to the news after the fact.





Key Takeaways

News traders use scheduled announcements to take up positions that profit from short-term volatility.News traders can also trade significant, unplanned events that impact the domestic or global economy.News traders tend to hold positions for a very short period of time as the impact of news usually fades quickly after being made public.


   Understanding News Trader  

The adage "buy the rumor, sell the news" recognizes that rumors have one effect on a security's price and news can have the opposite effect. For this reason, news traders focus on trading in the time leading up to the news or immediately after, when the market is still reacting to the news. These periods are characterized by a high amount of volatility that creates an opportunity to profit.



News traders try to profit from the timing or likely content of scheduled news announcements for the most part. When the news is scheduled, as with earnings releases or Federal Reserve meetings, news trading is more about playing the odds on the likely significance of the announcement. In fact, the Federal Reserve has tried to soften the market impact of its proclamations by foreshadowing every major policy decision well in advance, but even these policy signals have become tradable events.



When the news is a surprise to everyone, as in a natural disaster or black swan event, news traders try to position themselves to profit. Sometimes this means playing the volatility or making a call on the immediate directional impact of the news on current price trends.






In most cases, news traders are a type of day trader since they generally open and close trades in the same day.


   News Traders' Tools and Strategies  

News traders leverage many different strategies with a focus on market psychology and historical data. Traders may look at historical data, for example, such as past earnings reports, to predict how upcoming news, like an upcoming earnings report, is likely to affect prices. By becoming familiar with specific markets, news traders can make educated guesses as to whether a security will increase or decrease in price following a news report.



News traders can also set up queries and alerts to gather breaking news and correlate it with changes in the price action on a chart. If certain criteria are met, the news trader will then enter a bullish or bearish position depending on the trading strategy. As news is timely and usually short-term in impact, the opportunity to profit only exists for as long as the news is fresh.



A popular strategy used by news traders is known as fading, which involves trading in the opposite direction of the prevailing trend as enthusiasm wears off. A stock might open sharply higher, for example, after a positive earnings announcement during pre-market hours. News traders might watch for this optimism to reach a high and then short sell the stock intraday as optimism wears off. The stock might still be trading sharply higher compared to the prior day, but the traders may have profited from the difference between the highs and lows of the day.
What Is the NEX?  

NEX is a separate board on the TSX Venture stock exchange that provides a unique trading forum for listed companies that no longer meet the TSX Venture's ongoing listing standards.



The NEX is designed for companies that have low levels of business activity or have ceased to carry on active business. It benefits such companies by giving their stocks a degree of liquidity and providing visibility that may attract potential acquirers or investors. These companies are identified by an "H" or "K" extension to their trading symbols.





Key Takeways

The NEX is a subsidiary of the TSX Venture Exchange for listed companies that no longer meet the TSX Venture's ongoing listing standards.The NEX is designed for companies with low levels of business activity or that have ceased to carry on active business.The NEX benefits these companies by providing liquidity and visibility that may attract potential acquirers or investors.Companies that do not meet the TSX Venture Exchange's listing requirements are typically moved to the NEX board after 90 days.NEX has lower listing fees and simplified rules compared to the TSX Venture Exchange.


   Understanding the NEX  

NEX was launched as a subset of the TSX Venture Exchange, a Canadian stock exchange headquartered in Calgary, Alberta. The TSX Venture Exchange is a public venture capital marketplace that allows investors to invest in small cap and emerging companies. The TSX Venture Exchange was formerly known as the Canadian Venture Exchange before it was acquired and renamed by the TSX Group in 2001.



The TSX Group was renamed the TMX Group shortly afterward. Both the Canadian Venture Exchange and the TSX Venture Exchange focused on companies that were too small to be listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX), which is also owned by the TMX Group.



Prior to the launch of NEX, companies that could not meet the TSX Venture Exchange's continuous listing criteria were designated as "inactive" and given 18 months to either meet the listing standards or be delisted. The introduction of NEX relieved such companies of the tremendous pressure of a delisting deadline, and gave their management and shareholders another opportunity to turn things around.



Companies that do not meet the TSX Venture Exchange’s listing requirements are typically moved to the NEX Board after 90 days. They can remain on the NEX board indefinitely. Companies that have never been listed on TSX or TSX Venture Exchange cannot be listed on NEX.


   Costs for Listing on the NEX  

NEX charges a quarterly listing fee of $1,250, payable on the first business day of each quarter. In comparison, TSX Venture charges an annual sustaining fee and filing fees ranging from $5,200 to $90,000 for each reviewable filing made during the year. The fees for NEX are competitive with other emerging markets and were designed with consideration of TSX Venture's pricing structure.






A clear separation of companies that meet and don't meet TSX Venture standards enables investors to more easily select companies appropriate to the risk level of their investment profiles.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of the NEX   

NEX typically has lower listing fees and simplified rules, compared to the TSX Venture Exchange. The fees to list on TSX run from $10,000 to $200,000, while fees for listing on TSX Venture Exchange run from $7,500 to $40,000.



The companies listed on the NEX board tend to have low levels of business activity compared to those on the TSX Venture Exchange. Companies on the NEX board remain publicly traded even as they reassess their business strategy. However, some of these companies may not be able to do so successfully.



It is important to note that NEX companies must continue to meet the same disclosure standards applicable to all Canadian public companies, and must also maintain good standing with the relevant Canadian securities commissions.




Pros and Cons of Listing on the NEX

Pros

Provides liquidity for smaller and more marginal listed companies
Lower listing fees
Simplified rules for listing



Cons

Companies must still meet disclosure standards
Riskier for investors as companies face higher risk of de-listing







What Are the NEX Exchange Trading Hours?
NEX's trading hours are 9:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. ET on business days.




What Is NEX in the U.K.?
NEX Group, formerly known as ICAP, is a UK-based company that specializes in electronic financial markets and post-trade services for financial institutions, rather than for individual investors. Note that NEX Group is not affiliated with the NEX Exchange, which is part of Toronto's TMX Group.




What Is the Market Value of NEX?
NEX Group trades on the London Stock Exchange under the ticket NXGN. As of December 2022, the company had a market capitalization value of GBP 4.23 billion. TMX Group, which owns the NEX exchange in Canada is valued at CAD $7.70 billion.


   The Bottom Line  

NEX is a sub-exchange of the TSX Venture Exchange for listed companies that no longer meet the TSX Venture's ongoing listing standards. The NEX is designed for companies with low levels of business activity or that have ceased to carry on active business. The NEX benefits these companies by providing liquidity and visibility that may attract potential acquirers or investors. Companies that do not meet the TSX Venture Exchange's listing requirements are typically moved to the NEX board after 90 days. NEX has lower listing fees and simplified rules compared to the TSX Venture Exchange.
What Is Next In, First Out (NIFO)?  

Next In, First Out (NIFO) is a method of valuing inventory where the cost of an item is based upon its replacement cost rather than its original cost.



The Next In, First Out form of valuation does not conform to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).﻿﻿ This is because NIFO is said to violate the cost principle, accounting concept which states that goods and services should be recorded at original cost, not present market value.





Key Takeaways

Next In, First Out (NIFO) is a method of valuation where the cost of an item is based upon its replacement cost rather than its original cost.To reflect actual business conditions, companies may use NIFO internally when inflation is a factor and replacement cost is higher than an item's original cost.NIFO does not conform to generally accepted accounting principles.


   Understanding Next In, First Out (NIFO)?  

Some companies use Next In, First Out when inflation is a factor. Companies will set a selling price on a replacement-cost basis and use this method as a way to price the items it sells.



Although NIFO doesn't conform to GAAP, many economists and business managers prefer the economic rationale behind the method. As a cost flow assumption technique, by stating that the cost assigned to a product is the cost required to replace it, NIFO can offer a more practical valuation method businesses will actually see during normal operations.



For example, the traditional methods of Last In, First Out (LIFO) and First In, First Out (FIFO) can become distorted during inflationary periods. Using accounting methods based on these principles during inflationary environments can mislead business managers. Hence, many businesses will use NIFO for internal purposes during these periods and report results using LIFO or FIFO on their audited financial statements.


   Example of Next In, First Out (NIFO)  

Suppose a company sells a toy widget for $100. The original cost of the widget was $47, which would result in a reported profit of $53.



At the time of the sale, the replacement cost of the widget was $63. If the company were to charge $63 for the cost of goods sold under the NIFO concept, the reported profit would decline to $37.
What (and Who) Is Next of Kin?  

The term next of kin usually refers to a person's closest living relative(s). Individuals who count as next of kin include those with a blood relation, such as children, or those with a legal standing, such as spouses or adopted children. A person's next of kin often takes precedence over others in inheritance cases, especially when a will isn't established.





Key Takeaways


Next of kin is defined as a person's closest living relatives through blood or legal relationships.
The specifics of determining next of kin, and inheritance, vary by jurisdiction.
A legal will covering inheritable property usually takes precedence over the inheritance rights of someone's next of kin.
In some cases, the next of kin may be able to inherit someone's digital assets and obligations.
Funds from insurance policies and retirement accounts go to beneficiaries designated by these documents, regardless of relationships or will bequests.













Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   Understanding Next of Kin  

As noted above, next of kin refers to individuals who share a relationship through blood, marriage, or another legal bond, such as adoption. This relationship helps establish who would receive a portion of a person's estate by the laws of descent and distribution if there is no will. In this context, the next of kin is the spouse.



Inheritance rights use the next of kin relationship for anyone who dies without a will and no spouse or children. Surviving individuals may also have responsibilities during and after their relative's life. For example, the next of kin may need to make medical decisions if the person becomes incapacitated, or take responsibility for their funeral arrangements and financial affairs after their relative dies.






Establishing someone's next of kin is also important for law enforcement, medical officials, and other authorities when they need to make notifications about an individual's death, health, or well-being.



A legally and properly executed will that covers inheritable property usually takes precedence over next-of-kin inheritance rights. But if the deceased person left no will, their estate passes to a surviving spouse in nearly all states. If the couple is divorced, postnuptial agreements may terminate or alter these rights. If a surviving spouse remarries, it generally does not affect their inheritance rights.



In the absence of a surviving spouse, the person who is next of kin inherits the estate. The line of inheritance begins with direct offspring, starting with their children, then their grandchildren, followed by any great-grandchildren, and so on.



The legal status of stepchildren and adopted children varies by jurisdiction. If the deceased had no offspring, the line of inheritance moves upward to their parents. If the parents are no longer alive, collateral heirs (brothers, sisters, nieces, and nephews) are next in line.


   Special Considerations  

As next of kin, you may inherit some of your relative's digital assets and obligations. For example, Microsoft provides a deceased subscriber's next of kin with a DVD of the decedent’s entire Outlook account so the relative may assume paying bills, notify business contacts, close the account, and so on.


   Jurisdiction Over Next of Kin  

The specifics of determining next of kin and inheritance vary by jurisdiction. Matters involving inheritance in certain countries, such as the United Kingdom, are handled in accordance with various succession laws. In other countries, next-of-kin laws are in place for settling the estates of people who die intestate.



In the United States, the right of a relative to inherit or receive property by inheritance exists through the operation of state laws and legislative action. State law establishes next of kin relationships and inheritance priorities.






Identifying a next of kin is less important, at least legally, if the person who died (the "decedent") left a will or is (or was) married.



The legislature of a state has plenary power, or complete authority, over the distribution of property within the state borders. The deceased's estate becomes state property if no legal heir is identified.



What if someone dies in one state and owns assets in another? With personal property, the law of the state where the decedent resides generally supersedes the laws of other states.


   Insurance and Retirement Plans  

The recipient(s) of proceeds from a decedent's life insurance policy, or their retirement accounts such as 401(k)s and individual retirement accounts (IRA), are designated in a different way than other bequeathable assets. The funds from these instruments go to the beneficiaries listed by the decedent on these policies or accounts themselves, even if the decedent designated different people in a will.



Next-of-kin status is irrelevant unless the decedent was married and lived in a community property state. If so, by law, the surviving spouse is entitled to an equal portion of any funds earned or accrued during the marriage, unless the spouse had signed a waiver. If the spouse is also deceased, and there are no living listed beneficiaries, those assets may flow to the deceased's next of kin, depending on state law.



Certain other rules apply to individuals who inherit retirement plan assets; however, those rules have been modified recently following the passage of the Setting Every Community Up for Retirement Enhancement (SECURE) Act in December 2019.



Prior to the passage of the SECURE Act, non-spousal beneficiaries of an inherited IRA were required to commence required minimum distributions if the original account owner had commenced taking their own required minimum distributions (RMDs) prior to their death. If the account owner had not commenced taking their own RMDs, the non-spousal beneficiary was able to wait until they had reached the age to commence taking RMDs to begin taking them.



Prior to the passage of the SECURE Act, non-spousal beneficiaries who inherited an IRA previously were able to stretch out the benefits for their lifetime; however, under the new law, IRA beneficiaries must cash out their inherited retirement account within 10 years. There are certain exceptions, such as for the chronically ill, the disabled, and children under the age of 18.




Why Is Determining Next of Kin Important?
Establishing the next-of-kin relationship is important because it determines inheritance rights when a person dies without a will and there are no surviving relatives, such as a spouse or children.A person's next-of-kin may also have certain responsibilities during and after a person's life, such as making medical decisions, making funeral arrangements, and assuming control of financial affairs.




How Is Next of Kin Determined?
Determining the next-of-kin and inheritance varies by jurisdiction. In the United Kingdom, inheritance matters are handled as per succession laws. In other countries, the laws about next-of-kin help settle the estates of people who die intestate. The right of someone to inherit or receive property in the U.S. by inheritance exists by way of state laws and legislative action.




Will Next of Kin Automatically Get Life Insurance and IRA Benefits?
In most cases, the next-of-kin status doesn't matter. This means that the proceeds from life insurance policies and retirement accounts are transferred to the beneficiaries named by a decedent even if the decedent designates different people in their will.This changes if the decedent is married and lives in a community property state. In this case, the surviving spouse is legally entitled to an equal portion of any funds earned or accrued during the marriage, unless the spouse signs a waiver.


   The Bottom Line  

Next of kin refers to a person's closest living relative, which usually includes individuals with a shared bloodline, such as children or cousins, or those with a legal standing, such as adopted children or a spouse.



In estate planning, next of kin is important in that next of kin typically takes precedence over any other individuals for an inheritance, usually when a will does not exist. Each country and sometimes different jurisdictions within the country have different inheritance rights.



Most often, the spouse inherits the estate. If there is no spouse, then it is usually the children. If there are no children, the next of kin relationship continues to find the closest living blood relative.
What Is NEXUS?  

NEXUS is a government-sponsored Trusted Travelers Program that allows pre-screened U.S. and Canadian citizens to expedite border crossings.﻿﻿ U.S. and Canadian citizens using NEXUS experience expedited border crossings into the United States and Canada with less immigration and customs questioning. NEXUS is valid for air, land, and sea travel, and a NEXUS ID can be used in lieu of a passport.



NEXUS also helps the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and the Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA) reduce travel risks by increasing the number of known safe travelers.





Key Takeaways

NEXUS is a government-sponsored program that eases travel bureaucracy for pre-screened citizens of the United States and Canada across air, land, and sea.NEXUS members can use the Global Entry and TSA PreCheck programs without applying separately to each.Membership to NEXUS is valid for slightly more than five years and is available by paying a $50 fee and consenting to a background check and personal interview.


   Understanding NEXUS  

NEXUS members experience more efficient border crossings between the United States and Canada through dedicated lanes, airport kiosks, and land and sea border checkpoints. NEXUS members do not have to remove their shoes, belts, or light outerwear for airport security screenings and can keep their laptops and 3-1-1 compliant bag of liquids in their carry-on bags.



NEXUS members can use the Global Entry and Transportation Security Administration (TSA) Precheck traveler programs without applying separately to each. Global Entry members can use the NEXUS program to cross the border from Canada into the United States without becoming NEXUS members. However, expedited crossing from the United States into Canada requires NEXUS membership.


  Applying for NEXUS  

NEXUS applicants must pay a $50 fee (USD or CND) and submit to a background check and a personal interview.﻿﻿ If approved by both the United States' and Canadian governments, applicants receive a NEXUS ID card with their photo and radio frequency identification document (RFID) functionality. The card is valid for slightly more than five years and can be renewed following the same procedure as outlined above. The date of expiration is calculated from the next birthdate after the cardholder's last interview. NEXUS participants can also have their irises scanned as an alternative form of identification at border crossings.



NEXUS is open to U.S. citizens, lawful permanent U.S. residents, Canadian citizens, and lawful permanent residents of Canada. Individuals with a criminal history, customs violations, or immigration violations—or who do not meet criteria for admission to the United States or Canada—may not be approved for NEXUS. Either country can deny an individual’s application, but both must approve it.


  Reasons for NEXUS Ineligibility  

You may not be eligible for participation in the NEXUS program if you:



Provide false or incomplete information on the applicationHave been convicted of any criminal offense or have pending criminal charges or outstanding warrants (to include driving under the influence)Have been found in violation of any customs, immigration, or agriculture regulations or laws in any countryAre the subject of an ongoing investigation by any federal, state, or local law enforcement agencyAre inadmissible to the United States under immigration regulation, including applicants with approved waivers of inadmissibility or parole documentationCannot satisfy CBP or Canada Border Services Agency of your low-risk status
What Is the Nifty Fifty?  

The Nifty Fifty was a group of 50 large-cap stocks on the New York Stock Exchange that were most favored by institutional investors in the 1960s and 1970s. Investment in these top 50 stocks—similar to blue-chip stocks of today—is said to have propelled the American economy to its bull market of the 1970s. Companies in this group were usually characterized by consistent earnings growth and high P/E ratios.





Key Takeaways

The Nifty Fifty was a group of 50 large-cap stocks on the New York Stock Exchange in the 1960s and 1970s, characterized by their consistent earnings growth and high P/E ratios.Examples of Nifty Fifty stocks included household names such as General Electric, Coca-Cola, and IBM. However, part of this list also included now-struggling or defunct companies like Xerox and Polaroid.Today’s blue-chip stocks in several ways resemble the Nifty Fifty stocks of prior decades.


   Understanding the Nifty Fifty  

The Nifty 50 stocks got their notoriety in the bull markets of the 1960s and early 1970s. They became known as "one-decision" stocks because investors were told by individuals such as University of Pennsylvania professor Jeremy Siegel that they could buy and hold them forever. That wasn't always the case. Though no one comprehensive list exists of the Nifty 50, examples of some of these stocks included General Electric (GE), Coca-Cola (KO), and IBM (IBM). However, part of this list included companies that have been troubled in the last decade, such as Xerox and Polaroid.


   Nifty Fifty Stocks and Price-to-Earnings (P/E) Ratios  

Historically nifty-fifty stocks were favored in part due to their high price-to-earnings or P/E ratios. P/E ratios compare a stock’s current market value (price) to its earnings-per-share. Earnings are the company’s net profits, which the CEO and investor relations team announce each quarter on the company’s earnings conference call. The P/E ratio indicates the dollar amount an investor should invest in a company to receive one dollar of that company’s earnings. The P/E is thus sometimes referred to as the price multiple.



Today high P/E ratios, such as with many technology companies (i.e. Tesla’s (TSLA) forward P/E of 1,076) can indicate volatility and a lack of stability. If the company’s price is significantly higher than its actual concrete earnings, this imbalance could suggest investors have over-hyped the company. If the company fails to generate profits, investors who have purchased the stock at a high valuation could see their holdings decline if the market catches on and price drops accordingly.


   Nifty Fifty and Today’s Blue Chip Stocks  

Today’s blue-chip stocks in several ways resemble the Nifty Fifty stocks of prior decades. Blue-chip stocks are nationally recognized, well-established, and financially sound companies such as Coca-Cola, Disney, PepsiCo, Wal-Mart, General Electric, IBM, and McDonald’s. Dominant in their respective industries, many of these names overlap with those in the Nifty Fifty. Blue-chip stocks represent highly reputable brands and have survived multiple downturns in the economy over the years.



Investors with a low-risk profile (i.e. more conservative or potentially older investors, nearing retirement and looking for stability) often place their assets in blue-chip stocks. These are excellent options for capital preservation. Steady dividend payments provide a stream of income if the investor does not have a salary and also protects the portfolio against inflation.
What Is the Nigerian Letter Scam?  

The Nigerian letter scam, also known as advance fee fraud or "419 fraud," is a scheme in which a sender requests help facilitating the illegal transfer of money. The letter may be sent by mail, fax, or email—the most common method. The author is typically a self-proclaimed government or military official, bank officer, or business executive, who explains they need access to a foreign account to transfer money out of Nigeria.



In exchange, the sender offers the recipient a commission—sometimes up to several million dollars, depending on the perceived gullibility of the target. The scammers then request money to pay for some of the costs associated with the transfer, such as taxes, legal fees, and bribes to government officials. If the scammers are successful in receiving money, they will either disappear immediately or try to get more money with claims of additional transfer problems.





Key Takeaways

The Nigerian letter scam is a scheme in which a sender offers a commission to someone—generally via email—to help transfer a large sum of money. Nigerian letter scammers hope the commission offered will be enticing enough to compel recipients to send thousands of dollars to a stranger.The reasons given for the transfer can differ from a government freezing an account to an inheritance with no beneficiary.Nigerian letter scams are also known as advance fee fraud or 419 fraud. The name stems from the prevalence of these scams in Nigeria during the 1990s. 


   How a Nigerian Letter Scam Works  

This specific type of scam is generally referred to as a Nigerian letter scam because of its prevalence in that country, particularly during the 1990s. Section 419 of the Nigerian Criminal Code makes this type of fraud illegal. However, this scam is not limited to Nigeria and is also perpetrated by various organizations in countries around the world. 



The origins of this scam are widely debated with some suggesting it started in Nigeria during the 1970s, while others suggest its origins go back hundreds of years to other confidence scams, such as the Spanish Prisoner scam.


   Special Considerations  

The Nigerian letter scam was initially conducted by phone, fax, and traditional mail. The proliferation of email provided a new route for the Nigeran scam. Warning signs that a message might be a scam include mention of a U.S. currency account in a foreign country and the promise of substantial compensation for little effort, as well as typos, grammatical errors, and unusual syntax.


   What the Scammers Are Looking for  

Nigerian letter scammers hope the commissions they offer will be enticing enough to compel recipients to risk sending thousands of dollars to a stranger. The scammer may say the transfer is needed because the government is trying to freeze (or confiscate) their accounts, or that the money is otherwise hostage to war, corruption, or political unrest. The person might say they desperately need your bank account number to transfer the money for safekeeping.



Of course, when it comes to this type of request, remember that if anything sounds too good to be true, it usually is. Nigerian letter scams continue to exist because it only takes a handful of people—out of hundreds of thousands of attempts—to be fooled to make it worth the scammers' time and effort.


   How to Avoid the Nigerian Letter or 419 Fraud  

The U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) recommends the following tips for avoiding this type of fraud:



If you receive a letter or email from Nigeria (or any other country) asking for personal or banking information, do not reply in any manner. Forward the letter to the U.S. Secret Service, your local FBI office, or the U.S. Postal Inspection Service. You can also register a complaint with the Federal Trade Commission's Complaint Assistant.
Be skeptical of people stating they are Nigerian or other foreign government officials asking for your help moving large sums of money to overseas bank accounts.
Do not believe in the promise of large sums of money for your cooperation.
Always guard your account information carefully.
If you know someone who is corresponding with a scammer, encourage that person to contact the FBI or U.S. Secret Service as soon as possible.



Though many people recognize these and other types of scams, remember that criminals only have to find a few gullible people to make their time worthwhile. If you know anyone who may be vulnerable to fraud—for example, your aging parents—be sure to explain how scams work and how they can be avoided.




What Is the Nigerian Romance Scam?
In a romance scam—which is a type of catfishing—a criminal adopts a fake online identity to gain a victim's trust and affection. The scammer uses the guise of a romantic relationship to manipulate and/or steal from the victim. The criminal may propose marriage and make plans to meet in person, but that never happens. Eventually, the scammer asks for money. According to a study from tech and cybersecurity company TechShielder, Nigeria is the second-most-notorious country worldwide for romance scams, behind only the Philippines.




What Is an Advance Fee Scam?
An advance fee scam happens when a victim pays money to a fraudster who has promised something of greater value in return—such as a gift, contract, loan, or investment. The victim, of course, receives little or nothing, even if they cooperate with the scammer's demands. The Nigerian letter scam is an example of an advance fee scam because the victim is promised a cut of a large sum of money in exchange for providing banking details and making upfront payments.




Do Nigerian Letter Scams Originate in Nigeria?
Not necessarily. Of the Nigerian letter scam criminals who could be traced, 71% lived in the United States. Nigeria accounted for the next highest portion, at 8%.






If you believe you have been a victim, you can file a complaint with the Criminal Investigative Division of the U.S. Secret Service, Office of Homeland Security.  U.S citizens or residents should label the correspondence "No Financial Loss- For Your Database" or "Loss", depending upon your circumstance, and:   

Send it by mail to the U.S. Secret Service, Criminal Investigative Division, 950 H Street NW, Washington, D.C. 20223. It is important to report significant financial loss due to a message of this nature to your local Secret Service office also, which can be located in the 
Field Office Directory on the Secret Service website or on the inside cover of your local telephone directory.
Forward suspected Nigerian e-mails to spam@uce.gov so that the Federal Trade Commission will be aware of your experience.

Additional information about Nigerian fraud scams can be found on the FBI's website.
What Is a Night Depository?  

A night depository is a secured bank drop box where accountholders (usually small business owners or employees) can deposit their daily cash, checks, and credit card slips outside of normal banking hours (usually between 9 AM and 5 PM). The bank will collect the deposits and credit them to the client's account on the following business day.





Key Takeaways

A night depository is a secured drop box on the exterior of a bank where accountholders can deposit their daily cash, checks, and credit card slips outside of normal banking hours.Night depositories are used mainly by small business owners who still deal mainly in cash and checks, and want these receivables secured as soon as possible.Night depositories are unlocked with a key, and deposits are inserted into them in special locked bags. Banks open them the next business day, tally the funds, and deposit them in the client's business account.Clients pay a fee to for night depository service.


   Night Depository Explained  

Although they may seem a little quaint—if not downright obsolete—in our increasingly cashless, mobile-pay society, night depositories do still serve a purpose. Many small businesses and service providers still deal mainly in cash and checks. Night depositories provide additional security for these merchants, since it frees them from keeping money at their business location overnight, where it might be vulnerable to theft. Automated teller machines (ATMs) can serve this purpose too, but they limit the physical amount of paper one can deposit at a time, and of course, they don't accept coins. If the client has a large bundle of bills or checks, the night depository is often more practical.



Businesses need a commercial or business account to use a bank's overnight deposit facility. Generally, after a client opens an account, the bank will give them a key to open the secured drop box on the exterior of the building at that branch. The bank will also require that checks, cash, credit and debit card receipts be placed in a special lockable zippered bag, along with deposit slips.



A manager or specially trained commercial teller collects the bag from the depository the next business day. The contract between the merchant and the bank, called the night depository agreement ,determines who opens the bag and counts its contents: Normally, clients can dictate that the bag be unopened until they are present at the bank. Of course, this delays the posting of the funds to the account, but it speeds the resolution of any accounting errors and prevents disputes. If a client doesn't opt to be present, the bank opens the bag and processes the night deposit during its next business day, in accordance with Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation regulations.






Banks often require that you pay a monthly fee for night depository services.


   Real-World Example of a Night Depository  

Commercial banks that cater to small business emphasize their night depository services. First International Bank & Trust, a self-described community bank located located across North Dakota, central Minnesota and the greater Phoenix, AZ area, advertises its night depository service on its website. "Night deposits are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week at most First International Bank & Trust locations," it proclaims.



Liberty Bank, which has locations in New Orleans, Kansas City, Detroit—along with smaller cities in Mississippi, Alabama, and Illinois—also touts the "low annual fee" for its night deposit services at many locations. "You can securely drop off checks and cash for deposit anytime, day or night. When the bank reopens, your deposit will be processed and you'll be sent a receipt" the next business day.
What Is the Nikkei?  

The Nikkei is short for Japan's Nikkei 225 Stock Average, the leading and most-respected index of Japanese stocks. It is a price-weighted index composed of Japan's top 225 blue-chip companies traded on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The Nikkei is equivalent to the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) Index in the United States.





Key Takeaways

The Nikkei is Japan's leading stock index comprised of the country's top 225 blue-chip stocks.The Nikkei is a price-weighted index, which means the index is an average of the share prices of all the companies listed.Some of the best-known companies listed in the Nikkei are Sony Corporation, Canon Inc, Nissan Motor Company, and Honda Motor Company.Another Japanese stock index is the Tokyo Price Index (or TOPIX), which is a capitalization-weighted index that includes all the stocks in the Tokyo Stock Exchange.


   Understanding the Nikkei  

Formerly called the Nikkei Dow Jones Stock Average (from 1975 to 1985), it is now named after the Nihon Keizai Shimbun or Japan Economic Newspaper, commonly known as Nikkei, which sponsors the calculation of the index. The index has been calculated since September 1950, retroactive to May 1949. Among the best-known companies included in the Nikkei index are Canon Incorporated, Sony Corporation, and Toyota Motor Corporation. It is the oldest stock index in Asia.



The Nikkei was established as part of the rebuilding and industrialization of Japan in the aftermath of the Second World War. Constituent stocks are ranked by share price, rather than by market capitalization as is common in most indexes. Valuations are denominated in Japanese yen. The composition of the Nikkei is reviewed every September, and any needed changes take place in October.






According to the Nikkei 225 "Stock Average Fact Sheet," the Nikkei 225 is calculated every 5 seconds while the Tokyo Stock Exchange is open.


   The Tokyo Stock Exchange and the Nikkei Index  

The Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) was established in 1878. Initially, the TSE was founded as a marketplace for the exchange of bonds the government had issued to samurai. In addition to government bonds, the TSE also acted as an exchange for gold and silver currencies. By the 1920s, the TSE grew to include stock trading.



In 1943, during the Second World War, the Japanese government combined the TSE with five others to form a single Japanese Stock Exchange. That exchange was closed down in Aug. 1945 toward the end of the war. The Tokyo Stock Exchange re-opened on May 16, 1949, under the aegis of the Securities Exchange Act.



Japan experienced a major asset bubble in the late 1980s when the government used fiscal and monetary stimuli to counteract a recession caused by the Japanese yen's 50% appreciation during the first part of the decade. Stock prices and land values tripled between 1985 and 1989. At the height of the bubble, the TSE accounted for 60% of global stock market capitalization.



The bubble burst in 1990 and the value of the Nikkei Index fell by one-third that year. In Oct. 2008, the Nikkei traded below 7,000. This was a decline of more than 80% from its Dec. 1989 high. It subsequently rebounded between June 2012 and June 2015 with the help of economic stimulus from the Japanese government and the Bank of Japan, but the index was still nearly 50% below the 1989 high.


   TOPIX vs. Nikkei  

The Tokyo Price Index—frequently referred to as TOPIX—is another widely followed index on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. While the Nikkei is an index of 225 selected stocks from the TSE, the TOPIX is an index that includes all the stocks in the TSE.



The Nikkei is price-weighted, which means the index is an average of the share prices of all the companies listed. Because each company's stock is weighted by its price per share, the Nikkei tends to be influenced by high-priced stocks such as technology stocks.



TOPIX, on the other hand, uses the capitalization-weighted method for all the stocks in the TSE's first section. TOPIX is affected by stocks with large market valuations, such as financials.


   Special Considerations  

It is not possible to directly purchase an index, but there are several exchange-traded funds (ETFs) whose components correlate to the Nikkei. ETFs that track the Nikkei and trade on the Tokyo Stock Exchange include Blackrock's iShares Nikkei 225 and Nomura Asset Management Nikkei 225 Exchange Traded Fund. The MAXIS Nikkei 225 Index ETF is a dollar-denominated fund that trades on the New York Stock Exchange.
What Is a NINJA Loan?  

A NINJA loan is a slang term for a loan extended to a borrower with little or no attempt by the lender to verify the applicant's ability to repay. It stands for "no income, no job, and no assets." Whereas most lenders require loan applicants to provide evidence of a stable stream of income or sufficient collateral, a NINJA loan ignores that verification process.



NINJA loans were more common prior to the 2008 financial crisis. In the aftermath of the crisis, the U.S. government issued new regulations to improve standard lending practices across the credit market, which included tightening the requirements for granting loans. At this point, NINJA loans are rare, if not extinct.





Key Takeaways:

A NINJA (no income, no job, and no assets) loan is a term describing a loan extended to a borrower who may have no ability to repay the loan.A NINJA loan is extended with no verification of a borrower's assets.NINJA loans largely disappeared after the U.S. government issued new regulations to improve standard lending practices after the 2008 financial crisis.Some NINJA loans offer attractive low interest rates that increase over time.They were popular because they could be obtained quickly and without the borrower having to provide documentation.


   How a NINJA Loan Works  

Financial institutions that offered NINJA loans base their decision on a borrower’s credit score with no verification of income or assets, such as through income tax returns, pay stubs, or bank and brokerage statements. Borrowers must have a credit score over a certain threshold to qualify. Since NINJA loans are generally provided through subprime lenders, however, their credit score requirements may be lower than those of mainstream lenders, such as major banks.



NINJA loans are structured with varying terms. Some may offer an attractively low initial interest rate that increases over time. Borrowers are required to repay the debt according to a scheduled time frame. Failing to make those payments can cause the lender to take legal action to collect the debt, resulting in a drop in the borrower's credit score and ability to obtain other loans in the future.


   Risks of NINJA Loans  

Because NINJA loans require so little paperwork compared to, for example, traditional home mortgages or business loans, an application is processed quickly. Their speedy delivery makes them appealing to some borrowers, particularly those who lack the customary documentation or don't wish to produce it.



The loans can, however, be very risky for the lender. Because NINJA loans require no evidence of collateral, they are not secured by any assets that a lender could seize if the borrower defaults on the loan.



NINJA loans are also risky for the borrower, unfettered as they are by the traditionally conservative bank underwriting practices that often keep both sides out of trouble. Borrowers may be encouraged to take out larger loans than they can reasonably expect to repay, particularly if they focus on a low introductory interest rate that will rise in the future.






NINJA loans can be extremely risky for borrowers and lenders alike.


   NINJA Loans and the Financial Crisis  

After a high level of loan defaults helped trigger the 2008 financial crisis and a crash in real estate values in many parts of the country, the government imposed stricter rules on lenders, making loans more highly regulated than before, with mortgage loans seeing the greatest impact.



The 2010 Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act created new standards for lending and loan applications. The new rules largely did away with NINJA loans, requiring lenders to obtain more comprehensive information about prospective borrowers, including their credit scores and documented evidence of their employment and other income sources.






The proliferation of NINJA loans was a contributing factor in the 2007–2008 financial crisis and housing bubble. One research paper estimated that such loans accounted for $100 billion, or 20% of total losses, tallied during the crisis.




Are NINJA Loans Still Available?
NINJA loans have largely ceased to exist in the United States due to tighter lending standards put in place after the 2008 financial crisis.




Why Did Banks Offer NINJA Loans?
Prior to the financial crisis, banks became greedy in profiting from writing home loans. NINJA loans were originally designed for borrowers who had difficulty producing the necessary paperwork to verify their income and assets, such as prior tax returns because they derived their income from untraditional sources where such documentation is unavailable (e.g., tips or a personal business). Lenders often extended these loans to borrowers based purely on their credit scores, without any further documentation of the individual’s ability to make payments.




What Are Other Terms for NINJA Loans?
NINJA loans (no income, no job, no assets) are a category of low/no documentation (low/no doc) loan, also known as "liar loans."


   The Bottom Line  

Popular in the early- to mid-2000s, NINJA loans (which required no proof of employment, income, or assets) were partly responsible for the housing bubble and subsequent collapse coinciding with the 2007–2008 financial crisis and the ensuing Great Recession. Since that time, new regulations have largely stamped out this practice.
What Is the Nixon Shock?  

Nixon Shock is a phrase used to describe the aftereffect of a set of economic policies touted by former President Richard Nixon in 1971.



Most notably, the policies eventually led to the collapse of the Bretton Woods system of fixed exchange rates that went into effect after World War II.





Key Takeaways

The Nixon Shock was an economic policy shift undertaken by President Nixon to prioritize the United States' economic growth in terms of jobs and exchange rate stability.The Nixon Shock effectively led to the end of the Bretton Woods Agreement and the convertibility of U.S. dollars into gold.The Nixon Shock was the catalyst for the stagflation of the 1970s as the U.S. dollar devalued.Thanks in large part to the Nixon Shock, central banks now have a greater degree of control over their own money, making it easy to "manage" variables such as interest rates, overall money supply, and velocity.Many decades after the Nixon Shock, economists are still debating the merits of this massive policy shift and its eventual ramifications.


   Understanding the Nixon Shock  

The Nixon Shock followed President Nixon’s televised New Economic Policy address to the nation. The crux of the speech was that the U.S. would turn its attention to domestic issues in the post-Vietnam War era. Nixon outlined three main goals for the plan:



Creating better jobsStemming the rise in the cost of livingProtecting the U.S. dollar from international money speculators.



Nixon cited tax cuts and a 90-day hold on prices and wages as the best options for boosting the job market and tamping down the cost of living. As for speculative behavior toward the U.S. dollar (USD), Nixon supported suspending the dollar’s convertibility into gold. In addition, Nixon proposed an additional 10% tax on all imports that were subject to duties. Similar to the strategy of suspending dollar convertibility, the levy intended to encourage the United States’ main trading partners to raise the value of their currencies.



The Bretton Woods Agreement revolved around the external values of foreign currencies. Fixed versus the U.S. dollar, the value of foreign currencies was expressed in gold at a price determined by Congress. However, a dollar surplus imperiled the system in the 1960s. At the time, the U.S. did not have enough gold to cover the volume of dollars circulating throughout the world. That led to an overvaluation of the dollar.



The government attempted to shore up the dollar and Bretton Woods, with the Kennedy and Johnson administrations trying to deter foreign investment, limit foreign lending, and reform international monetary policy. However, their efforts were largely unsuccessful.


   Nixon Shock and the Bretton Woods Agreement  

Anxiety eventually crept into the foreign exchange market, with traders abroad fearful of an eventual dollar devaluation. As a result, they began selling USD in greater amounts and more frequently. After several runs on the dollar, Nixon sought a new economic course for the country.



Nixon’s speech was not received as well internationally as it was in the United States. Many in the international community interpreted Nixon’s plan as a unilateral act. In response, the Group of Ten (G-10) industrialized democracies decided on new exchange rates that centered on a devalued dollar in what became known as the Smithsonian Agreement. That plan went into effect in December 1971, but it proved unsuccessful. 



Beginning in February 1973, speculative market pressure caused the USD to devalue and led to a series of exchange parities. Amid still-heavy pressure on the dollar in March of that year, the G–10 implemented a strategy that called for six European members to tie their currencies together and jointly float them against the dollar.



That decision essentially brought an end to the fixed exchange rate system established by Bretton Woods.






The Bretton Woods agreement created two major institutions that have stood the test of time: the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.


   Legacy of the Nixon Shock  

Initially, the Nixon Shock was widely praised as a political success. Today, however, the long-term benefits of the Nixon Shock are a matter of scholarly debate.



First, Nixon's actions were the primary catalyst for the stagflation of the 1970s. It also led to the instability of floating currencies, as the U.S. dollar sank by a third during the 1970s. Over the past 40 years, the U.S. dollar has been anything but stable, with several periods of severe volatility.



From 1985 to 1995, for example, the U.S. dollar value index lost as much as 34%. After quickly recovering, it fell sharply again from 2002 to mid-2011.



Nixon also promised that his move would prevent costly recessions. Over the past few decades, however, the U.S. has suffered severe recessions including the Great Recession of December 2007 to June 2009.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of the Nixon Shock  

Today, we live in a world of mostly free-floating, market-traded currencies.



This system has advantages, especially in terms of making radical monetary policy such as quantitative easing (QE) possible. Central banks now have a greater degree of control over their own money, making it easy to "manage" variables such as interest rates, overall money supply, and velocity.



On the other hand, Nixon's move also created uncertainties and led to a massive market based on hedging the risks created by currency uncertainty. The financial crisis of 2007-2008, in particular, proved that central bank control is no guaranteed defense against severe recessions.



Many decades after the Nixon Shock, economists are still debating the merits of this massive policy shift and its eventual ramifications.





Advantages of the Nixon Shock

Government-backed money is generally more stable than commodity-based currency
Gives central banks more flexibility to "protect" their economies from severe busts of the business cycle
Actions to protect gold reserves triggered volatility in the economy



Disadvantages of the Nixon Shock

Led to stagflation of the 1970s
Severe recessions and U.S. dollar volatility still occur under the watch of central banks
Gold provided a self-regulating effect on the economy and currency, while the Nixon Shock empowered the government to manipulate variables





   Nixon and the Gold Standard FAQs  
  What Was the Gold Standard and How Did It Work?  

The gold standard is a monetary system in which the value of a country's currency is based on a fixed quantity of gold. In practice, central banks made sure that domestic currency (paper money) was easily convertible into gold at a specific fixed price. Gold coins also circulated as domestic currency alongside other metal coins and notes.


  When and Why Did Nixon End the Gold Standard?  

President Richard Nixon closed the gold window in 1971 in order to address the country's inflation problem and to discourage foreign governments from redeeming more and more dollars for gold.


  What Is Fiat Money?  

Fiat money is government-issued money that isn't backed by a physical commodity such as gold or silver. Instead, it is backed by the government that issued it.


  What Would Happen If We Returned to the Gold Standard?  

Some economists argue that if we returned to the gold standard, prices would actually destabilize, leading to episodes of severe deflation and inflation.



Moreover, in the event of a financial crisis, the government would have little flexibility to either avert or limit the potential damage.
What Is a No Documentation (No Doc) Mortgage?  

The term no documentation (no doc) mortgage refers to a loan that doesn't require income verification from the borrower. This type of loan is instead approved on a declaration that confirms the borrower can afford the loan payments. No doc mortgages are commonly given to those whose incomes aren't easily verified. Largely unregulated, these loans are mainly based on the resale potential of the secured property and the repayment structure of the mortgage.





Key Takeaways

No documentation mortgages do not require income verification from the borrower; instead, borrowers provide lenders with a declaration that they can repay the loan.No doc mortgages are commonly granted to individuals who don't have a regular source of income including those who are self-employed.Since the Great Recession, true no doc mortgages are rare—the term now applies to loans that do not require tax returns or other traditional income-verifying documents.No doc mortgages generally require higher down payments and higher interest rates than traditional mortgages.


   How No Documentation (No Doc) Mortgages Work  

In order to qualify for a mortgage, borrowers are normally required to submit proof of income. This includes providing lenders with W2s, pay stubs, employment letters, and/or recent tax returns. Lenders want to see that borrowers are able to afford payments on the loan by proving they have a stable and reliable source(s) of income. This is, of course, in addition to other factors such as a down payment and a suitable credit score.



Some mortgages, however, don't require any proof of income. These are called no documentation (no doc) mortgages, no documentation loans, or no income verification mortgages, With these loans, borrowers aren't required to provide a lot of paperwork, like the docs mentioned above. Instead, they must simply provide a declaration that indicates they are able to repay the loan. These mortgages are commonly granted to people who don't have a regular income source, self-employed individuals, new immigrants, or temporary workers.



No documentation (no doc) mortgages do not meet the Consumer Credit Protection Act requirement to reasonably verify the borrower’s financials. Because they don't require income verification, these mortgages tend to be very risky. And they tend to be increasingly rare since the 2010 passage of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which requires documentation on all types of loans—especially mortgages.






Passed in the wake of the financial crisis of 2008, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act instituted reforms and changes to the banking/financial industry, many of which focused on the lending business. Subprime mortgages and other high-risk loan products—notorious for their high levels of default—were considered among the main culprits of the crisis, which triggered the two-year Great Recession.


   No Doc Mortgages Since 2010  

In a sense, true no doc mortgages don't exist anymore: No lender will rely just on your word that you can repay the loan, as they did in the go-go years of the early 2000s. "Your organization must verify the information you rely on using reasonably reliable third-party records…you generally cannot rely on what consumers orally tell you about their income," states the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), a regulatory agency established by Dodd-Frank, in its compliance guide for lenders.



However, mortgage loans that do not require tax returns or other traditional income-verifying documents are still available. The lender lets you use other items, such as bank statements or brokerage statements, to show that you can meet your mortgage payments.


   Special Considerations  

No doc mortgages are commonly granted to individuals who don't have a regular source of income, including those who are self-employed, or whose wealth stems from investments or unearned-income sources. They help house flippers and landlords with multiple, expense write-offs on their tax returns to buy investment properties without thoroughly documenting their income.



But lenders granting these loans require borrowers to have excellent credit scores and high cash reserves available to make large down payments. The verification of a borrowers’ employment merely states monthly gross income on the application. 



Down payment requirements are also different when it comes to these mortgages. At least a 30% down payment is required, while other mortgages may be as much as 35% to 50%. In comparison, most conventional mortgages require a 20% down payment. Such mortgages also have a maximum 70 loan-to-value ratio (LTV). This ratio is calculated as the amount of the mortgage lien divided by the appraised value of the property, expressed as a percentage. 



The higher the borrower’s down payment on the investment property, the easier it is to be approved for the loan. This business model holds true for many mortgages because lenders see that the borrower is willing to offer a significant amount of capital. This large lump sum payment may mean there is less likelihood that the borrower will default because of their considerable investment. 


   Types of No Document Mortgages  

No doc mortgages fall into the Alt-A category of lending products. They are considered as falling in between prime and subprime mortgages in terms of risk.



Other types of Alt-A loans include:



Low documentation loans (low doc) require very little information on borrowers. Lenders often extended these loans purely on their client's credit scores.
 Stated-income, verified-assets loans (SIVA) are those for which lenders accept your assets as the basis for approval. They’re often called “bank statement loans.”
No-income, verified-assets loans (NIVA) are similar to SIVA loans, except income is not part of the equation (or the application).
No income-no asset (NINA). These mortgage programs do not require the borrower to disclose income or assets as part of loan calculations. However, the lender does verify the borrower's employment status before issuing the loan.
Stated income-stated asset loans (SISA) allow the borrower to state their income and assets without verification by the lender. These products are also known as liar loans.
 NINJA loans, a slang term used for credit extended to a borrower with no income, no job, and no assets. Prevalent pre-Dodd Frank, this type is nearly extinct now, given that it ignores the verification process.



The interest rates for no documentation and other Alt-A products are usually higher than rates for a traditional mortgage loan. Many of these limited documentation loans take their security basis from the equity position in a property. A mortgage calculator can be a good resource to budget for the monthly cost of your payment.
What Is a No-Load Fund?  

A no-load fund is a mutual fund in which shares are sold without a commission or sales charge. This absence of fees occurs because the shares are distributed directly by the investment company, instead of going through a secondary party. This absence of a sales charges is the opposite of a load fund—either front-load or back-load—which charges a commission at the time of the fund's purchase or sale. Also, some mutual funds are level-load funds where fees continue for as long as the investor holds the fund.


   Understanding a No-Load Fund  

Because there is no transaction cost to purchase a no-load fund, all of the money invested is working for the investor. For example, if an investor purchases $10,000 worth of a no-load mutual fund, all $10,000 will be invested into the fund.



On the other hand, if the person buys a load fund that charges a front-end load (sales commission) of 5%, the amount invested in the fund is only $9,500. If the fund holds a contingent deferred sales charge (CDSC), an expense-paid at the time of selling the fund, and the $500 sales commission comes out of the profits of the sale. The CDSC decline each year the fund is held. Should you hold a level-load mutual fund, the 12b-1 fees may be around 1% of the fund's total balance. The deduction of this charge is annual for as long as the investor owns the fund.






A no-load fund is a mutual fund in which shares are sold without a commission or sales charge. No-load funds are possible because the shares are distributed directly by the investment company, instead of going through a secondary party. A no-load fund is the opposite of a load fund, which charges a commission at the time of the fund's purchase, at the time of its sale, or as a "level-load" for as long as the investor holds the fund.


   Why Are There Loads?  

The justification for a load fund is that investors are compensating a sales intermediary such as a broker, financial planner, investment advisor or other professionals for their time and expertise in selecting an appropriate fund. Some investors find the paying of these fees bothersome. However, there is evidence that shows load funds can at times outperform no-load funds in some portfolios. Investors should carefully read all fund information and compare similar funds before investing.



Even no-load funds will carry fees that the investor must pay. All mutual funds carry one form or another of such fees and expenses, and the difference comes in how and when these charges are paid. Rather than charging an investor upfront, at the time of purchase, no-load fees earned are part of a fund’s average expense ratios (ER).



The expense ratio measures the operating and administrative charges for operating the mutual fund, and are a percentage based on the fund's assets under management (AUM). The largest portion of this fee is to pay for the work of the fund manager and advisor. Every investor in the fund will pay their share of these expenses through the reduction of profits distributed on the mutual fund's investments.



Expense ratios can vary widely among different mutual funds, but it is fairly routine to find no-load funds with expense ratios that are as much as 5% less than an equivalent load-bearing fund. With compound interest and no principal depreciation, choosing the no-load fund can save an investor thousands of dollars over time.


   Real-World Examples  

The largest purveyor of no-load mutual funds is The Vanguard Group. Located in Malvern, Pennsylvania, and boasting more than 30 million investors, the company offers over 400 mutual funds worldwide from which investors can choose. The do-it-yourself investor who eschews financial advisors and their commission structures can select from a variety of asset classes, ranging from ultra-conservative money market funds to riskier portfolios such as the Explorer fund. The Explorer fund invests in small to mid-cap stocks that have annually averaged nearly a 12.00% return over the last five years, as of August 2022.



T. Rowe Price, founded in 1937, offers one of the oldest no-load mutual funds in existence. Beginning operations in 1939, the company’s Balanced Fund charges no up-front or back-end sales charges while maintaining an annual expense ratio of 0.57%, as of August 2022. Receiving an overall four-star rating from Morningstar, the fund appeals to moderate investors who avoid sales loads and seek to put every dollar invested to work. The $4.2 billion Balanced Fund has averaged an annual return of 5.74% over the last five years, as of August 2022.
What Is No-Par Value Stock?  

No-par value stock is issued without the specification of a par value indicated in a company's articles of incorporation or on its stock certificates. Most shares issued are classified as no-par or low-par value stock, where prices of the latter are determined by the amount of cash investors are willing to pony up for the stocks on the open market.





Key Takeaways

No-par value stock is issued without a par value. The value of no-par value stocks is determined by the price investors are willing to pay on the open market. The advantage of no-par value stock is that companies can then issue stock at higher prices in future offerings. While no-par value stock is issued with no face value, low-par value stock is issued with a price as low as $0.01. On the downside of low-par value stock, if the issuing company defaults or shutters its doors, analysts may assume it was never fully capitalized to begin with. 


   Understanding No-Par Value Stock  

Companies may find it beneficial to issue no-par value stock because doing so gives them the flexibility to set higher prices for future public offerings. This reduces the downside risk for shareholders if the stock price sharply plummets. Because of the known fluctuations in pricing associated with the stock market, many investors typically do not deem par necessary prior to purchasing a particular investment. In addition, the production of stocks with a face value may result in legal liabilities regarding the difference between the current going rate and the par value assigned to the stocks, making them a less attractive option for issuers.



When companies issue no-par value stock, the price may experience natural variations. A no-par stock’s sale price can be determined by the basic principles of supply and demand, fluctuating as necessary to meet market conditions without being misrepresented by the face value.






Some states forbid corporations from issuing no-par stock. 


   Special Considerations  

If a business releases stock with a low-par value of $5.00 per share and 1,000 shares are sold, the associated book value of the business can then be listed as $5,000. If the business is generally successful, this value may be of no consequence. But if the business collapses while currently owing a creditor $3,000, the indebted company may call for a review of the delinquent company's accounting statements, which may reveal that the failed business was not fully capitalized. This can prompt the owed business to exercise its legal right to require shareholders to contribute to the repayment of the debt.


   No-Par Value Stock vs. Low-Par Value Stock  

No-par value stocks are printed with no face value designation, while low-par value stocks may show an amount lower than $0.01, all the way up to a few dollars. Many times, when a smaller company seeks to lower the number of its shareholders, it may choose to issue stocks with a face value of $1.00. This small amount can then function as a line item for accounting purposes.
What Is a No-Shop Clause?  

A no-shop clause is a clause found in an agreement between a seller and a potential buyer that bars the seller from soliciting a purchase proposal from any other party. In other words, the seller cannot shop the business or asset around once a letter of intent or agreement in principle is entered into between the seller and the potential buyer. The letter of intent outlines one party's commitment to do business and/or execute a deal with another.



No-shop clauses, which are also called no solicitation clauses, are usually prescribed by large, high-profile companies. Sellers typically agree to these clauses as an act of good faith. Parties that engage in a no-shop clause often include an expiration date in the agreement. This means they are only in effect for a short period of time, and cannot be set indefinitely.


   Understanding the No-Shop Clause  

No-shop clauses give a potential buyer leverage, preventing the seller from looking for another, more competitive offer. Once signed, the buyer can take the time necessary to weigh out its options about the deal before agreeing to it or walking away. They also prevent potential sellers from being targeted by unsolicited offers which may present a better opportunity. No-shop clauses are commonly found in mergers and acquisitions (M&A).






No-shop clauses typically come with short expiry dates so neither party is bound to the deal for an extended period of time.



A no-shop clause is very useful from the potential buyer's point of view because it can prevent the seller of the business or asset from soliciting other offers, which may lead to a higher purchase price or bidding war if there are multiple interested parties. On the other hand, the seller may not want an unduly long no-shop period, especially if there is a risk that the potential purchaser will walk away from the deal during or upon completion of due diligence.



Buyers in a strong position can demand a no-shop clause, so as not to drive up valuation or signal a buyer's interest. In high-stakes transactions, anonymity is an influential element. In turn, a potential seller may agree to a no-shop clause as a good faith gesture towards a buyer, particularly a buyer with whom a seller wants to engage.


   Example of a No-Shop Clause  

While there are many applications for a no-shop clause, they are fairly common during mergers and acquisitions. For example, Apple may request a no-shop clause while evaluating a potential acquisition. Being Apple, the seller may agree to a no-shop clause in hopes Apple's bid is strong or some other potential synergy offering enough value to justify agreeing to the clause.



In mid-2016, Microsoft announced its intent to purchase LinkedIn. Both companies agreed to a no-shop clause, which prevented the professional social networking site to find other offers. Microsoft included a break-up fee to the clause, wherein LinkedIn would be responsible to pay Microsoft $725 million if it closed a deal with another buyer. The deal was completed in December 2016.





Key Takeaways

A no-shop clause is a condition in an agreement between a seller and a potential buyer that prevents the seller from getting an offer from another buyer.These clauses are commonly found in mergers and acquisition deals.No-shop clauses prevent bidding wars or unsolicited bids from trumping the position of the potential buyer.Companies may reject a no-shop clause if they have a financial responsibility to their shareholders.


   Exceptions to the No-Shop Clause Rule  

There are certain cases where a no-shop clause may not apply even when both parties sign one. A public company has financial responsibilities to their shareholders and, as such, may wait for the highest bidder possible. They may thus be able to reject a no-shop clause even if the company's board of directors has signed one with a potential buyer.
What Is a No-Load Fund?  

A no-load fund is a mutual fund in which shares are sold without a commission or sales charge. This absence of fees occurs because the shares are distributed directly by the investment company, instead of going through a secondary party. This absence of a sales charges is the opposite of a load fund—either front-load or back-load—which charges a commission at the time of the fund's purchase or sale. Also, some mutual funds are level-load funds where fees continue for as long as the investor holds the fund.


   Understanding a No-Load Fund  

Because there is no transaction cost to purchase a no-load fund, all of the money invested is working for the investor. For example, if an investor purchases $10,000 worth of a no-load mutual fund, all $10,000 will be invested into the fund.



On the other hand, if the person buys a load fund that charges a front-end load (sales commission) of 5%, the amount invested in the fund is only $9,500. If the fund holds a contingent deferred sales charge (CDSC), an expense-paid at the time of selling the fund, and the $500 sales commission comes out of the profits of the sale. The CDSC decline each year the fund is held. Should you hold a level-load mutual fund, the 12b-1 fees may be around 1% of the fund's total balance. The deduction of this charge is annual for as long as the investor owns the fund.






A no-load fund is a mutual fund in which shares are sold without a commission or sales charge. No-load funds are possible because the shares are distributed directly by the investment company, instead of going through a secondary party. A no-load fund is the opposite of a load fund, which charges a commission at the time of the fund's purchase, at the time of its sale, or as a "level-load" for as long as the investor holds the fund.


   Why Are There Loads?  

The justification for a load fund is that investors are compensating a sales intermediary such as a broker, financial planner, investment advisor or other professionals for their time and expertise in selecting an appropriate fund. Some investors find the paying of these fees bothersome. However, there is evidence that shows load funds can at times outperform no-load funds in some portfolios. Investors should carefully read all fund information and compare similar funds before investing.



Even no-load funds will carry fees that the investor must pay. All mutual funds carry one form or another of such fees and expenses, and the difference comes in how and when these charges are paid. Rather than charging an investor upfront, at the time of purchase, no-load fees earned are part of a fund’s average expense ratios (ER).



The expense ratio measures the operating and administrative charges for operating the mutual fund, and are a percentage based on the fund's assets under management (AUM). The largest portion of this fee is to pay for the work of the fund manager and advisor. Every investor in the fund will pay their share of these expenses through the reduction of profits distributed on the mutual fund's investments.



Expense ratios can vary widely among different mutual funds, but it is fairly routine to find no-load funds with expense ratios that are as much as 5% less than an equivalent load-bearing fund. With compound interest and no principal depreciation, choosing the no-load fund can save an investor thousands of dollars over time.


   Real-World Examples  

The largest purveyor of no-load mutual funds is The Vanguard Group. Located in Malvern, Pennsylvania, and boasting more than 30 million investors, the company offers over 400 mutual funds worldwide from which investors can choose. The do-it-yourself investor who eschews financial advisors and their commission structures can select from a variety of asset classes, ranging from ultra-conservative money market funds to riskier portfolios such as the Explorer fund. The Explorer fund invests in small to mid-cap stocks that have annually averaged nearly a 12.00% return over the last five years, as of August 2022.



T. Rowe Price, founded in 1937, offers one of the oldest no-load mutual funds in existence. Beginning operations in 1939, the company’s Balanced Fund charges no up-front or back-end sales charges while maintaining an annual expense ratio of 0.57%, as of August 2022. Receiving an overall four-star rating from Morningstar, the fund appeals to moderate investors who avoid sales loads and seek to put every dollar invested to work. The $4.2 billion Balanced Fund has averaged an annual return of 5.74% over the last five years, as of August 2022.
What Is Noise?  

In a broad analytical context, noise refers to information or activity that confuses or misrepresents genuine underlying trends. In the financial markets, noise can include small price corrections in the market as well as price fluctuations–called volatility–that distorts the overall trend. However, market noise can make it challenging for investors to discern what's driving the trend and whether a trend is changing or merely experiencing short-term volatility.





Key Takeaways

Noise refers to information or activity that confuses or misrepresents genuine underlying trends.In the financial markets, noise can include small price movements and corrections in that distort the overall trend.Market noise can make it difficult to determine what's driving a trend or if a trend is changing or merely experiencing short-term volatility.


   Understanding Noise  

Noise can signify stock market activity caused by program trading, dividend payments or other phenomena that is not reflective of overall market sentiment. Dividends are cash payments that companies pay investors as a reward for owning their shares. The concept of noise was formally introduced in a landmark 1986 paper by economist Fischer Black, where he stated that "noise" ought to be distinguished from "information" and that a disproportionate amount of trading occurred on the basis of noise, rather than evidence.



All trading is somewhat speculative, but noise traders are considered to be particularly reactionary, relying on trending news, apparent surges or declines in prices, or word of mouth rather than the fundamental analysis of companies.


   Noise and Time Frames  

Typically, the shorter the time frame, the more difficult it is to separate the meaningful market movements from the noise. The price of a security can vary widely throughout a given day, but almost none of this movement represents a fundamental change in the perceived value of the security. Day traders trade short-term movements in a security with the goal of entering and exiting a position within minutes or hours. Some noise traders attempt to take advantage of market noise by entering buy and sell transactions without the use of fundamental data. 



A longer time frame can provide a clearer picture of a trend. For example, a stock might swing wildly on earnings news for a few hours. However, when comparing that price movement to the trend over the past few months, the earnings move might be small relative to the overall trend. Only hindsight provides assurance of the credibility of information and whether the recent news or events will impact the trend. When buying and selling stocks at a rapid, short-term pace, it can be difficult to distinguish "information" from "noise."


   Causes of Noise  

There are market fluctuations that occur that usually tend to be noise. Intraday information typically causes short-term price fluctuations. More often than not–unless it's a major announcement or event–the trend usually remains intact once the noise settles down.



Short-term volatility or price moves can be the result of program trading, which means that a large investment institution has programmed computers to make trades when prices reach a certain level. It's also advisable to be on the lookout for artificial bubbles, which are often created when many noise traders congregate their purchases around a single company or industry. Market noise can also lead to corrections or reverse movements of more than ten percent of the value of a security. These corrections are typically adjustments to a significant overvaluation of a security or index.


   Having a System: The Alternative to Noise Trading  

Many traders create processes and rules for making trading decisions to help avoid noise. These traders establish preset risk and reward parameters, meaning they know how much they're willing to risk on a trade as well as when to take profit or unwind the position.



With a trading plan, investors attempt, with some precision, to determine what would constitute a profitable move in their current position. Typically, investors who do not have a trading process for arriving at a decision are more susceptible to noise trading. Of course, making decisions based on a personal trading strategy doesn't remove susceptibility to misinformation. However, traders who know what they're looking for are far less likely to be swayed by noise than traders who rely on news or other fluctuations.
What is a Noise Trader?  

Noise trader is generally a term used in academic finance studies associated with the Efficient Markets Hypothesis (EMH). The definition is often vaguely stated throughout the literature though it is mainly intended to describe investors who make decisions to buy or sell based on factors they believe to be helpful but in reality will give them no better returns than random choices.





Key Takeaways

Noise traders trade on signals they believe to generate better than random returns, however this belief is not well founded.The idea of a noise trader came from the notion that price action has "noise" which is unrelated to the signal of sound analysis about security value.Such notions have led to the contradictory and oversimplified view that fundamental analysis is true signal and technical analysis is mere noise.A better consideration for identifying noise trading is to understand the concept of the noise trader agenda.


   Understanding a Noise Trader  

Conventional wisdom posits that noise traders are considered to be substantial contributors to high-volume trading days because it is thought that these traders are making irrational decisions and responding emotionally. However high-volume trading days are inevitably driven by institutional investors who are among the most informed and should be making the most well-researched investing decisions.



The category of traders that are stereotyped as noise traders includes novices and those who trade primarily based on technical analysis. However, those who don't trade the market averages and instead follow trading systems that under perform the market, regardless of the factors involved, should, strictly speaking, be lumped into the same category. This is the reason that the definition is inconsistent and often unclear in the literature because the definition of what exactly constitutes rational investing is also not a standard definition.



Some professional analysts and academics like to say that noise traders overinflated the price of securities in bullish trading periods and depressed the price of securities in bearish trading. For mainstream investors, these affects can be known as noise trader risks.


   Technical Traders  

Technical traders are often considered noise traders since their trading strategies are usually unrelated to company fundamentals. But this assumes a study of company fundamentals generates better returns than random choices or market averages--and this is certainly not the case for all traders and investors who follow company fundamentals. The semi-strong form of the EMH would categorize both technical and fundamental indicators as suspect in generating predictably better than random returns.



Noise traders, those who follow unproven signals of any kind, form a substantial portion of the market’s trading volume on any given day. Active technical analysts and full-time day traders make trades throughout the trading day based on price action indicators and patterns that are derived from daily price series charts. However a small portion of these are actually much more successful than random returns or the market averages. Conventional wisdom would still label these noise traders, but that designation is perhaps unwarranted since they clearly are following signals that matter at some level.



Regardless of the validity of their signal, those who contribute to an unusually high volume of daily trades can substantially affect a stock’s price either positively or negatively, and thus are considered to induce noise into market pricing.


   The Noise Trader Agenda  

Edwin Burton and Sunit Shah introduced the concept of the Noise Trader agenda to help better frame a discussion of noise traders. This concept was published in their text titled, "Behavioral Finance," (Wiley, 2013) and it is further quoted in the CMT Association's Level I Exam book. This concept explains a more useful and practical way of thinking about noise traders. They explain as follows:



"it has long been known that there are many, often silly, reasons that people buy and sell stocks. No one pretends that all traders and investors are completely rational; common observation suggests that is not the case. But the very existence of noise traders is not sufficient to invalidate the EMH. In order to show that the EMH is in trouble, at least two conditions must be met. We will call these two conditions the noise trader agenda:Noise trader behavior must be systematic. Noise traders must be shown not to simply cancel one another out. If some are too optimistic and others are too pessimistic, then one group may simply cancel out the effect of the other. Instead, there must be something like herd activity, such that a large group of noise traders, or a small group with a large amount of assets, behave in a similar manner. 



Noise traders need to survive economically for a significant period of time. If all noise traders do is lose money through their noise trading, then their impact will be limited. Noise traders need to make substantial and persistent profits under some conditions. Otherwise, noise traders are simply cannon fodder, as Friedman suggests, for the smart traders."
What Is Nominal?  

Nominal is a common financial term with several different meanings. In the first, it means very small or far below the real value or cost. In finance, this adjective modifies words such as a fee or charge. A nominal fee is below the price of the service provided or presumably easy for a consumer to afford, or a fee that is small enough that it does not have any meaningful impact on one's finances. Nominal may also refer to a rate that's been unadjusted for inflation.





Key Takeaways


Nominal is a financial term that has several different contexts.
It can mean small or far below the real value or cost such as a nominal fee.
Nominal also refers to an unadjusted rate in value such as interest rates or GDP.
In finance, the real interest rate is the nominal interest rate minus the inflation rate.



   Types of Nominals  

In finance and economics, nominal may also refer to an unadjusted rate or the change in value. When defining items like the gross domestic product (GDP) or interest rates, nominal points to a figure that is unadjusted for seasonality, inflation, interest compounding, and other modifiers. In this use, nominal shows the contrast to "real" economic statistics that do make such adjustments or modifications to results.



Because a nominal figure will deal with the unadjusted value of a study, it is best not to use it as a comparative figure. Consider someone who has $100 in 1950 versus someone with $100 in 2020. Although both people may have $100—which is the nominal value—the real value is not the same, where the nominal value does not factor in inflation. The nominal value of an asset can also mean its face value. For example, a bond with a face value of $1,000 has a nominal value of $1,000.


   Nominal vs. Real  

The term real, as opposed to nominal, expresses the value of something after making adjustments for various factors in creating a more accurate measure. For example, the difference between nominal and real GDP is that nominal GDP measures the economic output of a country using current market prices, and real GDP takes inflation into account to create a more accurate measure.


   Nominal vs. Real Rate of Return  

The rate of return (RoR) is the amount an investor earns on an investment. While the nominal rate of return reflects the investor's earnings as a percentage of the initial investment, the real rate takes inflation into account. As a result, the real rate gives a more accurate assessment of the actual buying power of the investor's earnings.



For example, imagine you buy a $10,000 stock and sell it the following year for $11,000. Your nominal rate of return is 10%. However, to get a more accurate picture of your actual return, this rate needs to be adjusted for inflation, as the purchasing power of your money has likely changed over the one year. Therefore, if inflation for that year is 4%, the real rate of return is only 6% or the nominal rate of return minus the rate of inflation.


   Nominal vs. Real Interest Rates  

Like the difference between nominal and real rates of return, the difference between nominal and real interest rates is that the latter is adjusted for inflation. For example, if an investment is expected to return 7% interest, but the inflation rate is 4%, then the real interest rate on that investment is only 3%.



However, in terms of interest, the nominal rate also contrasts with the annual percentage rate (APR) and the annual percentage yield (APY). In the case of APY, the nominal, or stated rate is the rate the lender advertises, and it is the basic interest rate the consumer pays on the loan.



On the other hand, APR takes into account fees and other costs associated with the loan, and it calculates the interest rate with those factors in mind. For example, imagine a borrower takes out a $1,000 loan with a 5% nominal interest rate, but they also pay a $100 origination fee. During the first year of the loan, they face $50 in interest fees. However, when we factor in the origination fee, they pay $150 in fees and interest.



This total fee sum equates to a 15% APR. Conversely, APY takes both the fees and the effect of compounding into account to give the borrower an even more accurate picture of their interest rate.


   Example of Nominal  

As in the example above, the nominal value for someone who has $100 in 1950 does not change for someone who has $100 in 2020. What does change is the purchasing power, where inflation decreases purchasing power over time. Assuming an average annual inflation rate of 3.46% from 1950 to 2020, then what $100 would buy in 1950 would cost $1,081 in 2020. Thus, the real value of $100 in 1950 would be $1,081 in 2020.
What Is the Nominal Effective Exchange Rate (NEER)?  

The nominal effective exchange rate (NEER) is an unadjusted weighted average rate at which one country's currency exchanges for a basket of multiple foreign currencies. The nominal exchange rate is the amount of domestic currency needed to purchase foreign currency.



In economics, the NEER is an indicator of a country's international competitiveness in terms of the foreign exchange (forex) market. Forex traders sometimes refer to the NEER as the trade-weighted currency index.



The NEER may be adjusted to compensate for the inflation rate of the home country relative to the inflation rate of its trading partners. The resulting figure is the real effective exchange rate (REER). Unlike the relationships in a nominal exchange rate, NEER is not determined for each currency separately. Instead, one individual number, typically an index, expresses how a domestic currency’s value compares against multiple foreign currencies at once.



If a domestic currency increases against a basket of other currencies inside a floating exchange rate regime, NEER is said to appreciate. If the domestic currency falls against the basket, the NEER depreciates.


   What Does the Nominal Effective Exchange Rate (NEER) Tell You?  

The NEER only describes relative value; it cannot definitively show whether a currency is strong or gaining strength in real terms. It only describes whether a currency is weak or strong, or weakening or strengthening, compared to foreign currencies. As with all exchange rates, the NEER can help identify which currencies store value more or less effectively. Exchange rates influence where international actors buy or sell goods.



NEER is used in economic studies and for policy analysis on international trade. It is also used by forex traders who engage in currency arbitrage. The Federal Reserve calculates three different NEER indices for the United States: the broad index, the Advanced Foreign Economies (AFE) and the Emerging Market Economies (EME).


  The Basket of Foreign Currencies  

Every NEER compares one individual currency against a basket of foreign currencies. This basket is chosen based on the domestic country's most important trading partners as well as other major currencies. The world's major currencies are the U.S. dollar, the Euro, the British pound, the Japanese yen, the Australian dollar, the Swiss franc, and the Canadian dollar.



The value of foreign currencies in a basket are weighted according to the value of trade with the domestic country. This could be export or import value, the total value of exports and imports combined or some other measure. The weights often relate to the assets and liabilities of different countries.



A higher NEER coefficient (above 1) means that the home country's currency is usually worth more than an imported currency, and a lower coefficient (below 1) means that the home currency is usually worth less than the imported currency.



There is no international standard for selecting a basket of currencies. The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) basket is different than the basket for the International Monetary Fund (IMF) or the Federal Reserve or Bank of Japan. However, many different institutions rely on the International Financial Statistics (IFS) published by the IMF.
What Is Nominal Gross Domestic Product (GDP)?  

The term nominal gross domestic product (GDP)  refers to the GDP evaluated at current market prices. Put simply, nominal GDP is the total value of all goods and services produced in a given time period less the value of those made during the production process. GDP is the monetary value of all the goods and services produced in a country. Nominal GDP is one way to measure how well the economy is doing. It differs from real GDP in that the first one doesn't include the changes in prices due to inflation.





Key Takeaways

A country's nominal gross domestic product assesses the economic production in its economy but includes the current prices of goods and services in its calculation.GDP is typically measured as the monetary value of goods and services produced.Since nominal GDP doesn't remove the pace of rising prices when comparing one period to another, it can inflate the growth figure.Growing nominal GDP from year to year may reflect a rise in prices as opposed to growth in the number of goods and services produced.Real GDP starts with nominal GDP but factors in price change between periods.


   Understanding Nominal Gross Domestic Product (GDP)  

The economy is a series of interrelated processes that determine how resources are allocated. These processes include the production, distribution, and consumption of goods and services, along with other activities. These goods and services are required by those living within the economy.



There are many ways to determine and measure how well the economy is doing. Economists watch various economic indicators, such as unemployment, inflation, retail sales, industrial production, and gross domestic product. GDP is a metric that measures the health and well-being of a nation's economy. It's the total value of all goods and services that are produced during a certain period of time less the value of those that are employed during the production process.



There are different types of GDP, including real, actual, potential, and nominal. Nominal GDP is an assessment of economic production in an economy that includes current prices in its calculation. In other words, it doesn't strip out inflation or the pace of rising prices, which can inflate the growth figure. All goods and services counted in nominal GDP are valued at the prices that are actually sold that year.






The Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) measures and reports GDP figures in the United States.


   How to Calculate Nominal GDP  

Remember: Nominal GDP is the total value of goods and services produced within a specific economy. But just how is it measured? There are actually a couple of ways that you can use to calculate nominal GDP.



The first is the expenditure approach. In order to use this method, you'll have to know a few values, including:



Consumer Spending (C)
Business Investment (I)
Government Spending (G)
Total Net Exports (X-M): This figure is derived by subtracting import expenditures from the total value gained from a country's exports.



Once you have these figures, you can plug them into the following formula:



Nominal GDP = C + I + G + (X-M)



You can also use the GDP price deflator method to calculate nominal GDP. This approach involves the use of the following formula:



Nominal GDP = Real GDP x GDP Price Deflator



Economists use the prices of goods from a base year as a reference point when comparing GDP from one year to another. This price difference is called the GDP price deflator.


   Effects of Inflation on Nominal GDP  

Because it is measured in current prices, growing nominal GDP from year to year might reflect a rise in prices as opposed to growth in the number of goods and services produced. If all prices rise more or less together, known as inflation, then this will make nominal GDP appear greater. Inflation is a negative force for economic participants because it diminishes the purchasing power of income and savings, both for consumers and investors.



Inflation is most commonly measured using the Consumer Price Index (CPI) or the Producer Price Index (PPI). The CPI measures price changes from the buyer's perspective or how they impact the consumer. The PPI, on the other hand, measures the average change in selling prices that are paid to producers in the economy.



When the overall price level of the economy rises, consumers have to spend more to purchase the same amount of goods. If an individual’s income rises by 10% in a given period but inflation rises by 10% as well, then the individual’s real income (or purchasing power) is unchanged. The term real in real income merely reflects the income after inflation has been subtracted from the figure.






The U.S. is the world's largest economy, followed by China and Japan.


   Limitations of Nominal GDP  

There are several limitations to using nominal GDP as an economic indicator. There are several factors that aren't included in nominal GDP, such as:



The total cost of production. While certain costs can be measured, nominal GDP doesn't include external costs that are important to the production process, such as waste and environmental factors.
The production and sale of goods. When it comes to production, nominal GDP only takes final production into account rather than the steps and parts used during the manufacturing process. Similarly, this indicator also tracks inventory—not the actual sale of goods.
Certain services. Nominal GDP doesn't include valuable services that contribute to society and the economy as a whole because they can't be quantified. These include unpaid internships and volunteer work.



Another limitation arises when an economy is mired in a recession or a period of negative GDP growth. Negative nominal GDP growth could be due to a decrease in prices, called deflation. If prices declined at a greater rate than production growth, nominal GDP might reflect an overall negative growth rate in the economy. A negative nominal GDP would be signaling a recession when, in reality, production growth was positive. 


   Nominal Gross Domestic Product (GDP) vs. Real Gross Domestic Product (GDP)  

A nation's nominal GDP growth might overstate its growth if inflation is present when we compare GDP growth between two periods using the GDP price deflator. For example, if prices rose by 1% since the base year, the GDP deflator would be 1.01. Overall, real GDP is a better measure any time the comparison is over multiple years. That's why economists prefer to use real GDP over nominal GDP.



Real GDP starts with nominal GDP but it also factors in price changes from one period to another. Real GDP takes the total output for GDP and divides it by the GDP deflator. Let's say the current year's nominal GDP output was $2,000,000 while the GDP deflator showed a 1% increase in prices since the base year. Real GDP would be calculated as $2,000,000/1.01 or $1,980,198 for the year.




How Do I Calculate Nominal GDP?
Nominal GDP measures the economic production in an economy and includes the current prices of goods and services in its calculation. There are different ways to calculate nominal GDP:The expenditure approach accounts for the changes in quantity and the current market prices and it's a suitable way to measure nominal GDP.The GDP deflator approach uses the real GDP level and the change in price in its calculation. When multiplying both elements, the result is the nominal GDP.




Why Is Nominal GDP Higher Than Real GDP?
Nominal GDP is higher than real GDP because it takes current market prices into consideration. Conversely, real GDP is lower than nominal GDP because it takes market price changes into consideration.




What Is the Difference Between Nominal and Real GDP?
In short, nominal GDP measures the economic production at current market prices, whereas real GDP measures the economic production factoring in any prices changes in the market (deflation or inflation).


   The Bottom Line  

Nominal gross domestic product is a useful measure when GDP needs to be compared to any other factor that, like nominal GDP, is not inflation-adjusted. For example, a comparison of a nation's debt to its GDP will use nominal GDP. Keep in mind that debt is always measured in current dollars. Economists, however, favor real GDP is often over nominal GDP as it accounts for the effects of inflation.
What Is Nominal Interest Rate?  

Nominal interest rate refers to the interest rate before taking inflation into account. Nominal can also refer to the advertised or stated interest rate on a loan, without taking into account any fees or compounding of interest.





Key Takeawys

Nominal interest rate refers to the interest rate before taking inflation into account.The federal funds rate, the interest rate set by the Federal Reserve, is the short-term nominal interest rate that is the basis for other interest rates charged by banks and financial institutions.To avoid purchasing power erosion through inflation, investors consider the real interest rate, rather than the nominal interest rate.APY (annual percentage yield) is the effective interest rate which tends to be more relevant to borrowers and lenders than the nominal, or stated, interest rate.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding Nominal Interest Rate  

Central banks set short-term nominal interest rates, which form the basis for other interest rates charged by banks and financial institutions. Nominal interest rates may be held at artificially low levels after a major recession to stimulate economic activity through low real interest rates, which encourage consumers to take out loans and spend money. However, a necessary condition for such stimulus measures is that inflation should not be a present or a near-term threat. In the United States, the federal funds rate, the interest rate set by the Federal Reserve, can also be referred to as a nominal rate.



Conversely, during inflationary times, central banks tend to set nominal rates high. Unfortunately, they may overestimate the inflation level and keep nominal interest rates too high. The resulting elevated level of interest rates may have serious economic repercussions, as they tend to stall spending.






Nominal rates tend to be high during periods of high inflation.



Nominal interest rates exist in contrast to real interest rates and effective interest rates. Real interest rates tend to be important to investors and lenders, while effective rates are significant for borrowers as well as investors and lenders.



Although the nominal rate is the stated rate associated with a loan, it is typically not the rate that the consumer pays. Rather, the consumer pays an effective rate that varies based on fees and the effect of compounding. To that end, annual percentage rate (APR) differs from the nominal rate, as it takes fees into account, and annual percentage yield (APY) takes both fees and compounding into account.



The nominal interest rate (n) for a specified period, when the effective interest rate is known, can be calculated as:



n = m × [ ( 1 + e)1/m - 1 ]



Where:



e = effective ratem = number of compounding periods



However, most borrowers typically want to know the effective rate as the nominal rate is often the rate that is stated. The formula for effective interest rate (e) is:



e = (1 + n/m)m - 1



Where:



n = nominal ratem = number of compounding periods



For example, if a loan's stated (nominal) rate is 8% and it's compounded semi-annually then the effective interest rate (e) would be:



e = [1 + .08/2]2 - 1 = 8.16%






Treasury Inflation Protected Securities (TIPS) allow investors to preserve their savings without losing value to inflation.


   Nominal vs. Real Interest Rates  

Unlike the nominal rate, the real interest rate takes the inflation rate into account. The equation that links nominal and real interest rates can be approximated as nominal rate = real interest rate + inflation rate, or nominal rate - inflation rate = real interest rate.



To avoid purchasing power erosion through inflation, investors consider the real interest rate, rather than the nominal rate. One way to estimate the real rate of return in the United States is to observe the interest rates on Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS). The difference between the yield on a Treasury bond and the yield on TIPS of the same maturity provides an estimate of inflation expectations in the economy.



For example, if the nominal interest rate offered on a three-year deposit is 4% and the inflation rate over this period is 3%, the investor’s real rate of return is 1%. On the other hand, if the nominal interest rate is 2% in an environment of 3% annual inflation, the investor’s purchasing power erodes by 1% per year.




What Is the Difference Between Nominal and Real Interest Rates?
Nominal interest rates do not account for inflation while real interest rates do. For example, in the United States the federal funds rate, the interest rate set by the Federal Reserve, can form the basis for the nominal interest rate being offered. The real interest, however, would be the nominal interest rate minus the inflation rate, usually measured by the CPI (Consumer price index).




Why Do Investors Care More About Real Interest Rates?
To avoid purchasing power erosion through inflation, investors consider the real interest rate, rather than the nominal rate. One way to estimate the real rate of return in the United States is to observe the interest rates on Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS). The difference between the yield on a Treasury bond and the yield on TIPS of the same maturity provides an estimate of inflation expectations in the economy.




What Is Difference Between Nominal Rate and APY?
APY (annual percentage yield) is the effective interest rate which tends to be more relevant to borrowers and lenders. The consumer, usually the borrower, pays an effective rate that varies from the nominal (stated) rate based on fees and the effect of compounding. To that end, the effective rate (APY) is often higher than the nominal rate.




How Do You Calculate the Effective Rate If Nominal Rate Is Known?
The effective rate, which factors in compounding, can be calculated from the nominal rate which is often the rate that is stated. The formula for effective interest rate (e) is:e = (1 + n/m)^m - 1(where n = nominal rate and m = number of compounding periods)
What Is the Nominal Rate of Return?  

The nominal rate of return is the amount of money generated by an investment before factoring in expenses such as taxes, investment fees, and inflation. If an investment generated a 10% return, the nominal rate would equal 10%. After factoring in inflation during the investment period, the actual ("real") return would likely be lower.



However, the nominal rate of return has its merits since it allows investors to compare the performance of an investment irrespective of the different tax rates that might be applied for each investment.





Key Takeaways

The nominal rate of return is the amount of money generated by an investment before factoring in expenses such as taxes, investment fees, and inflation. The nominal rate of return helps investors gauge the performance of their portfolio by stripping out outside factors that can affect performance such as taxes and inflation. Tracking the nominal rate of return for a portfolio or its components helps investors to see how they're managing their investments over time.


   The Formula for the Nominal Rate of Return Is  

﻿




Nominal rate of return


=




Current market value


−


Original investment value




Original investment value





\text{Nominal rate of return} = \frac{\text{Current market value}-\text{Original investment value}}{\text{Original investment value}}


Nominal rate of return=Original investment valueCurrent market value−Original investment value​﻿


   How to Calculate the Nominal Rate of Return  

Subtract the original investment amount (or principal amount invested) from the current market value of the investment (or at the end of the investment period).
Take the result from the numerator and divide it by the original investment amount.
Multiply the result by 100 to achieve the nominal rate of return as a percentage.


   What Does the Nominal Rate of Return Tell You?  

The nominal rate of return helps investors gauge the performance of their portfolio whether it's comprised of stocks, bonds, or other investments. The nominal rate of return strips out outside factors that can affect performance such as taxes and inflation. By using the nominal rate of return, investors can compare the performance of different investments over different time periods that might have different inflation rates.



Tracking the nominal rate of return for a portfolio or its components helps investors to see how they're managing their investments over time.


  Nominal vs. After-Tax Rate of Return  

The after-tax rate of return of an investment takes the effect of taxation on the investment's returns into account. In most cases, investors pay different amounts of tax on investments based on the investment, how long the investment was held, and the investor's tax bracket. As a result, the two investors may face different after-tax rates of return on their investment, even if it is the same investment with the same nominal rate of return.



Also, different investments will have different tax rates applied to them. If an investor is comparing a municipal bond with a corporate bond whereby both bonds have the same nominal rate of return, their after-tax return is markedly different. In most cases, municipal bonds are tax-exempt while income from corporate bonds is subject to taxation. As a result, if the IRS taxes the corporate bond, the rate of return will be significantly less than the rate of return on the municipal bond, because the corporate bond is subject to capital gains tax.


   Example of a Nominal Rate of Return  

Let's say an investor placed $100,000 in a no-fee fund to be invested for one year. At the end of the year, the investment was worth $108,000, given the market price at the end of the same year:



The nominal rate of return is calculated as:



﻿







(


$


1


0


8



0


0


0


−


$


1


0


0



0


0


0


)





$


1


0


0



0


0


0




=


0


.


0


8


=


8


%



\frac{ \left(\$108\,000 - \$100\,000 \right) }{\$100\,000} = 0.08 = 8\%


$100000($108000−$100000)​=0.08=8%﻿



The nominal rate of return = 8%.


   The Difference Between the Nominal Rate of Return and Real Rate of Return  

A real rate of return is the annual percentage return realized on an investment, which is adjusted for changes in prices due to inflation or other external factors. Adjusting the nominal return to compensate for factors such as inflation allows you to determine how much of your nominal return is a real return. Conversely, the nominal rate of return strips out outside factors that can affect performance such as taxes and inflation.


   Limitations of the Nominal Rate of Return  

The nominal rate of return doesn't include inflation or taxes when calculating the performance of an investment. For example, if an investment earned 10% over one year, but inflation was 2.5% for the same period, the actual rate of return would be 7.5%, or 10% - 2.5% inflation. Although the nominal rate return is an important metric when comparing the performance of multiple investments, it should be used in tandem with the real rate of return to make sure that investment gains are not being eroded by inflation or rising prices.
What Is a Nominal Value?  

Nominal value of a security, often referred to as face or par value, is its redemption price and is normally stated on the front of that security. With respect to bonds and stocks, it is the stated value of an issued security, as opposed to its market value. In economics, nominal values refer to the unadjusted rate or current price, without taking inflation or other factors into account as opposed to real values, where adjustments are made for general price level changes over time.


   Understanding Nominal Value  

Nominal value is a critical component of many bond and preferred stock calculations, including interest payments, market values, discounts, premiums and yields. Nominal value of common stock will usually be much lower than its market value due to supply / demand considerations while the nominal value of preferred stock should be more in line with its market value. The nominal value of a bond will vary from its market value based on market interest rates.



Nominal and real values also play a vital role in economics, whether it takes into account nominal GDP versus real GDP or nominal interest rates versus real interest rates. Real values factor in the changes in purchasing power. While the nominal rate of return reflects an investor's earnings as a percentage of their initial investment, the real rate of return takes inflation and the actual buying power of the investor's earnings into account.





Key Takeaways

Nominal value of a security, often referred to as face or par value, is its redemption price and is normally stated on the front of that security.For bonds, the nominal value is the face value, and will vary from its market value based on market interest rates..A preferred stock's nominal (par) value is important in that it is used to calculate its dividend while the nominal value of common stock is an arbitrary value assigned for balance sheet purposes.In economics, nominal value refers to the current monetary value and does not adjust for the effects of inflation.


   Nominal Value of Bonds  

For bonds, the nominal value is the face value, which is the amount repaid to the bondholder at maturity. Corporate, municipal, and government bonds typically have face values of $1,000, $5,000, and $10,000, respectively.
If a bond's yield to maturity (YTM) is higher than its nominal interest rate (coupon rate) then the real value of the bond will be lower than its face (nominal) value and the bond is said to selling at a discount to par, or below par. Conversely, if the YTM is lower than its nominal interest rate then the real value of the bond is higher than its face value and it is said to be selling at a premium to par, or above par and if they are the same then the bond is selling at its nominal, or par, value. Zero-coupon bonds are always sold at a discount to nominal value, because the investor does not receive interest until the bond matures. The formula for calculating bond market value is:















BP


=




∑


Coupon Payments




(


1


+


Market Yield



)


i





+



Face Value



(


1


+


Market Yield



)


n



















where:
















BP


=


Bond price
















Coupon Payments


=


Face value


×


Coupon rate
















i


=


Each year
















n


=


Number of years







\begin{aligned}&\text{BP} = \frac { \sum{\text{Coupon Payments}} }{ ( 1 + \text{Market Yield} ) ^ i } + \frac {\text{Face Value} }{ ( 1 + \text{Market Yield} ) ^ n} \\&\textbf{where:} \\&\text{BP} = \text{Bond price} \\&\text{Coupon Payments} = \text{Face value} \times \text{Coupon rate} \\&i = \text{Each year} \\&n = \text{Number of years} \\\end{aligned}


​BP=(1+Market Yield)i∑Coupon Payments​+(1+Market Yield)nFace Value​where:BP=Bond priceCoupon Payments=Face value×Coupon ratei=Each yearn=Number of years​
For example, a 3 year corporate bond issue with face value of $1000 and a coupon rate of 10%. The annual coupon payments would be $100 ($1000 * 10%). If the market rate (YTM) is higher than the coupon rate, say 12%, then the market value of the bond would be selling at a discount to par (less than $1000).









Bond Price


=











$


100




1


+


12


%




+




$


100




(


1


+


12


%



)


2





+




$


100




(


1


+


12


%



)


3













Bond Price


=









+




$


1000




(


1


+


12


%



)


3












=








$


89.29


+


$


79.72


+


$


71.18


+


$


711.79









=








$


951.98







\begin{aligned}\text{Bond Price} =& \frac { \$100 }{ 1 + 12\% } + \frac { \$100 }{ (1 + 12\%) ^ 2 } + \frac { \$100 }{ (1+ 12\%) ^ 3 } \\\phantom{ \text{Bond Price} = } &+ \frac { \$1000 }{ (1 + 12\%) ^ 3 } \\=& \$89.29 + \$79.72 + \$71.18 + \$711.79 \\=& \$951.98 \\\end{aligned}


Bond Price=Bond Price===​1+12%$100​+(1+12%)2$100​+(1+12%)3$100​+(1+12%)3$1000​$89.29+$79.72+$71.18+$711.79$951.98​


   Nominal Value of Stocks  

The nominal value of a company's stock, or par value, is an arbitrary value assigned for balance sheet purposes when the company is issuing share capital – and is typically $1 or less. It has little to no bearing on the stock's market price. For example, if a company obtains authorization to raise $5 million and its stock has a par value of $1, it may issue and sell up to 5 million shares of stock. The difference between the par and the sale price of stock is called the share premium and may be considerable, but it is not technically included in share capital or capped by authorized capital limits. So, if the stock sells for $10, $5 million will be recorded as paid share capital, while $45 million will be treated as additional paid in capital.



Preferred stocks are hybrid assets which pay dividends and may be converted to common stock. The nominal (par) value is quite important here as this is the amount used to calculate the dividend. For example, a company issuing a 5% preferred stock with a par (nominal) value of $50 would be paying dividends of $2.50 (5% *$50) per share annually. The preferred stock's price will depend on the market's assessment of the dividend percentage being offered, in this case 5%. If the market is satisfied with 5% then the stock will trade around its nominal (par) value. If the dividend percentage is higher or lower than market expectations then the preferred stock's price will trade at a higher or lower price than its nominal value.


   Nominal Value in Economics  

In economics, nominal value refers to the current monetary value and does not adjust for the effects of inflation. This renders nominal value a bit useless when comparing values over time. It is for this reason that investors prefer real values, which factor in inflation, to give a relative comparison that is more accurate and understandable. Real rate is the nominal rate minus the inflation rate.





Real Rate


=


Nominal Rate


−


Inflation Rate



\text{Real Rate} = \text{Nominal Rate} - \text{Inflation Rate}


Real Rate=Nominal Rate−Inflation Rate
For example, if nominal gross domestic product (GDP) growth rate is 5.5% for a given year and the related annual inflation rate is 2%, then the real GDP growth rate for the year is 3.5%.


   Nominal vs. Real Exchange Rates  

The nominal exchange rate is the number of units of the domestic currency that can purchase a unit of a given foreign currency. The real exchange rate is defined as the ratio of the foreign price level to the domestic price level, where the foreign price level is converted into domestic currency units via the current nominal exchange rate. In contrast to the nominal exchange rate, the real exchange rate is always floating, because even in fixed exchange rate regimes, the real exchange rate changes as inflation changes.



When looking at a country’s export competitiveness, it is the real exchange rate that matters. The nominal effective exchange rate (NEER), an unadjusted weighted average rate at which one country's currency exchanges for a basket of multiple foreign currencies, is an indicator of a country's international competitiveness in terms of the foreign exchange market. But the NEER can be adjusted to compensate for the inflation rate of the home country relative to the inflation rate of its trading partners, resulting in the real effective exchange rate (REER).
What Is Nominal Yield?  

A bond's nominal yield, depicted as a percentage, is calculated by dividing total interest paid annually by the face, or par, value of the bond.





Key Takeaways

A bond's nominal yield, depicted as a percentage, is calculated by dividing total interest paid annually by the face, or par, value of the bond.Two components combine to determine the nominal yield on a debt instrument: the prevailing rate of inflation and the credit risk of the issuer.The nominal yield does not always represent the current yield because it is a percentage based on the bond's par value and not the actual price that was paid for that bond.


   Understanding Nominal Yield  

The nominal yield is the coupon rate on a bond. Essentially, it is the interest rate that the bond issuer promises to pay bond purchasers. This rate is fixed and it applies to the life of the bond. Sometimes it's also referred to as nominal rate or coupon yield.



The nominal yield does not always represent the current yield because it's a percentage based on the bond's par value, and not the actual price that was paid to buy that bond. Buyers who pay a premium that's more than the face value for a given bond will receive a lower actual rate of return (RoR) than the nominal yield, while investors who pay a discount that's less than the face value will receive a higher actual rate of return. It's also worth noting that bonds with high coupon rates tend to get called first—when callable—because they represent the issuer's greatest liability relative to bonds with lower yields.



Take, for example, a bond with a face value of $1,000 that pays the bondholder $50 in interest payments annually. It would have a nominal yield of 5% (50/1000).



If the bondholder bought the bond for $1,000, the nominal yield and the current yield are the same, 5%.If the bondholder paid a premium and bought the bond at $1,050, the nominal yield is still 5% but the current yield would be 4.76% (50/1050).If the bondholder got the bond at a discount and paid $950, the nominal yield is still 5% but the current yield would be 5.26% (50/950).


   What Determines the Nominal Yield?  

Bonds are issued by governments for domestic spending purposes or by corporations to raise funds for financing research and development and for capital expenditure (CapEx). At the time of issuance, an investment banker acts as an intermediary between the bond issuer—which might be a corporation—and the bond buyer. Two components combine to determine the nominal yield on a debt instrument: the prevailing rate of inflation and the credit risk of the issuer.



Inflation and Nominal Yield: The nominal rate equals the perceived rate of inflation plus the real interest rate. At the time a bond is underwritten, the current rate of inflation is taken into consideration when establishing the coupon rate of a bond. Thus, higher annual rates of inflation push nominal yield upward. From 1979 until 1981, double-digit inflation loomed for three consecutive years. Consequently, three-month Treasury bills, which were considered risk-free investments because of the backing of the U.S. Treasury, peaked in the secondary market at a yield of 15.49% in December 1980. By contrast, the yield on the same three-month Treasury obligation was 1.5% in December 2019. As interest rates rise and fall, bond prices move inversely to rates, creating higher or lower nominal yields.
Credit Rating and Nominal Yield: With U.S. government securities essentially representing risk-free securities, corporate bonds typically hold higher nominal yields by comparison. Corporations are assigned credit ratings by agencies such as Moody’s; their assigned value is based on the financial strength of the issuer. The difference in coupon rates between two bonds with identical maturities is known as the credit spread. Investment-grade bonds hold lower nominal yields at issuance than non-investment grade or high-yield bonds. Higher nominal yields come with a greater risk of default, a situation in which the corporate issuer is not able to make principal and interest payments on debt obligations. The investor accepts higher nominal yields with the knowledge that the issuer’s financial health poses a greater risk to principal.
What Is a Nominated Advisor (NOMAD)?  

A nominated advisor (NOMAD) is a financial services firm that assists with listing a company on the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) of the London Stock Exchange (LSE). The Alternative Investment Market is a specialized unit of the LSE catering to smaller, more risky companies.



The LSE requires that a company seeking a listing on AIM have a NOMAD, which the LSE itself must approve to carry out the functions. Once listed on the AIM, the NOMAD oversees the company and ensures it follows regulations. NOMADs are thus seen as the regulatory system for the less-stringent AIM market and are tasked with advising companies both pre-IPO and after listing.





Key Takeaways

A nominated advisor is a financial services firm that shepherds a company onto the LSE's Alternative Investment Market (AIM).NOMADs are corporate finance advisors, who are usually boutique investment banks.Companies that want to list on the AIM must retain NOMADs as per LSE requirements.The NOMAD continues to monitor its client even after successfully listing on the AIM.NOMADs must meet certain criteria to qualify.


   How a Nominated Advisor (NOMAD) Works  

The Alternative Investment Market (AIM) was established in 1995 by the London Stock Exchange to enable emerging growth companies to raise capital. The AIM is considered to be a submarket of the LSE. Well over 3,500 such companies from around the world have taken advantage of the lower listing requirements offered by this alternative exchange. However, there is a rule that a company must retain the services of a NOMAD to help guide it through the AIM listing process.



A NOMAD is a corporate finance advisor, usually a boutique investment bank, which conducts thorough due diligence for the suitability of an AIM applicant for the exchange. If satisfied with the company's business model, financial and operating track record, the competence of executives and directors, and intended capital structure, the NOMAD will assist the company in its preparation and application for admission to the AIM.



If the company and NOMAD are successful in their efforts, the NOMAD will continue to monitor its client—this is a requirement of the LSE. The NOMAD must act as the regulator, ensuring that the company complies with AIM rules at all times. The NOMAD also serves an ongoing role of providing advice on business operational or financial strategy.






Companies must retain NOMAD services to help guide them through the AIM listing process.


   NOMAD Qualifications  

As of May 2022, there are 27 NOMADs approved by the LSE. The following are noted criteria for an entity to be considered a NOMAD:



It must be a firm or company, not an individual.
The company must be involved in corporate finance for at least two years.
It must have acted as a financial advisor in at least three qualified transactions in two years.
The firm must employ at least four qualified executives.



Along with a NOMAD, companies that want to join the AIM should consider retaining a broker, an accountant, and a legal adviser. Brokers are also members of the LSE and are required to be from the same firm as the NOMAD. Brokers are responsible to bring buyers and sellers together. Accountants are independent of the company and monitor the company's financials. The accountant also helps the company prepare all financial documents required of it. Finally, the legal adviser takes care of any verifications of statements as well as provides direction and advice to the company's board members.
What Is a Nomination Committee?  

The term nomination committee refers to a committee that acts as part of an organization’s corporate governance. A nomination committee evaluates a firm's board of directors and examines the skills and characteristics required of board candidates. Nomination committees may also have other duties, which vary from company to company.





Key Takeaways

A nomination committee is a group that is part of the corporate governance of an organization or firm.The nominating committee's job includes considering a firm's potential board of directors and other key management roles.Nominating committees often consist of the chair of the board, the deputy chair, and the company's CEO.


   Understanding the Nomination Committee  

Nominating committees serve a very useful and important purpose for different organizations ranging from nonprofits to major corporations. Also referred to as nominating committees or nominating and governance committees, they are often made up of the chair of the board, the deputy chair, and the chief executive officer (CEO). There are usually at least two members on each committee, although the exact number of people who serve on the committee tends to differ based on the type and size of the organization. The length of time each member serves on the committee also varies depending on the nature of the entity.






The size of a nomination committee varies based on the type of organization.



These committees are tasked with a series of responsibilities. One of their primary duties is to seek out candidates to fill a variety of important positions in a company including its board of directors as well as key management roles. The committees review candidates' qualifications and ensure they align with the requirements of the company. More about this is outlined a little further down.



Committees may also need to review and change policies including corporate governance. Corporate governance is a system of rules and processes that provides the framework for a company to achieve its objectives. Put simply, corporate governance helps companies stay on track. It's an important factor when balancing the interests of a company's many stakeholders including—but not limited to—shareholders, management, customers, suppliers, financiers, government, and community of users.


   Special Considerations  

As mentioned above, the nominating committee often seeks out and appoints the board chair. The chair presides over executive committee or board meetings. They ensure these meetings run smoothly and remain orderly, and they also aim to reach a consensus in board decisions through skilled negotiation tactics. The board position is usually distinctly different from that of the CEO. The chair of the board position can be either a nonexecutive (part-time) or executive (full-time) position.



A nomination committee may also support the search for a CEO. The CEO is an organization’s highest-ranking executive. They make major corporate decisions ranging from day-to-day operations to managing company resources and liaise between the board of directors and other executives. A company's CEO often has a position on the board as well.



While the role of the CEO depends on the size, culture, and industry of the company, it is almost always full-time. This is in contrast with the chair of the board, who may be part-time. In small companies, the CEO often takes on a more hands-on role, making a range of lower-level choices, such as interviewing and hiring staff. But it's different for those in larger, Fortune 500 companies. In these cases, the CEO typically deals with macro-level strategy and directing overall growth. This means the CEO delegates more tasks to other senior managers. CEOs set the tone and the vision for their organization. As such, it's important that the nominating committee be deliberate when considering potential candidates.
What Is a Nominee?  

A nominee is a person or firm whose name is titled on securities or other property to facilitate certain transactions or transfers while leaving the original customer as the actual or legal owner. In this way, a nominee can serve as a custodian.



A nominee account is a type of account in which a stockbroker holds shares belonging to clients, making buying and selling those shares easier and for safekeeping. In such an arrangement, shares are said to be held in street name.





Key Takeaways

In finance, a nominee refers to a person or company who has been entrusted with the safekeeping of investors' securities or property; all of your investments are held in its name, while you retain control.The securities are held in trust and the nominee is the legal owner, but you hold on to real ownership as the beneficiary.The broker can buy and sell on your behalf, but your funds are protected if the brokerage goes out of business or your broker tries to swindle you.The nominee company should be a neutral third party that is separate from the brokerage itself.


   Understanding Nominees  

Investment advisory firms routinely use nominees to safeguard the assets they manage for their clients. Nominee accounts are the most common method for holding stocks. Stockbrokers prefer nominee accounts because they reduce costs and increase trading efficiency.



An investor's shares are legally owned by a stockbroker's non-trading subsidiary or nominee company. The investor is the stock's beneficial owner and has rights over the shares. The stockbroker records all beneficial owners, trades according to an investor's directions, and passes cash from sales or dividends to an investor.



Because a non-trading company owns the shares, an investor's assets are legally separate from the stockbroker's assets and liabilities. If the broker becomes insolvent, the investor's stocks are protected from creditors.


   Nominee Accounts and Investor Safety  

Although regulators and exchanges periodically review nominee accounts, the process is not performed on a daily basis. Because a stockbroker may move or sell shares from nominee accounts at any time, fraud may occur. This is especially common if a firm is facing insolvency and needs cash or assets to meet liabilities. A stockbroker's records may become altered, increasing the difficulty of determining which investors own assets in a nominee account.






Brokers don't typically have separate accounts for each individual, but rather pooled accounts of many customers that give them a bigger pot to stir.


   Nominee Accounts and Investor Compensation  

Most major markets offer investor compensation, covering assets held by a stockbroker. Investors are compensated up to a set amount if any assets are missing from their accounts and the broker cannot offer the difference in cash. Investors with larger stock values are encouraged to have accounts with multiple brokers, for it is unlikely all brokers will fail simultaneously, and the investor is entitled to recoup more than if the nominee account was with one broker.


   Nominee Accounts and Foreign Stocks  

A stockbroker typically does not take direct custody of an investor's foreign securities. The broker uses a third-party custodian, typically a division of a major global bank offering such services. However, some international brokers have local subsidiaries handling custody in some or all of their markets.



Assets the bank holds in custody are segregated from general operations. Although it is possible the global bank may fail, the far-reaching consequences would most likely result in a bailout, protecting the investors' asset values. However, in smaller emerging markets, a custodian without a local division may engage a sub-custodian to hold stock on its behalf. If the sub-custodian faces insolvency, the main custodian may not be liable for the sub-custodian's missing assets.
What Is the Non-Accelerating Inflation Rate of Unemployment?  

The non-accelerating inflation rate of unemployment (NAIRU) is the specific level of unemployment that is evident in an economy that does not cause inflation to increase. In other words, if unemployment is at the NAIRU level, inflation is constant. NAIRU often represents the equilibrium between the state of the economy and the labor market.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

The non-accelerating inflation rate of unemployment (NAIRU) is the lowest level of unemployment that can occur in the economy before inflation starts to inch higher.When unemployment is at the NAIRU level, inflation is steady; when unemployment rises, inflation decreases; when unemployment drops, inflation increases.With no set formula to determine NAIRU, the Federal Reserve has historically used statistical models to put the NAIRU level somewhere between 5% and 6% unemployment.Assessing the NAIRU level amid its inquiry into inflation and unemployment helps the Federal Reserve in its goal to both achieve maximum employment and price stability.On the downside: NAIRU does not account for the variety of factors that impact unemployment, besides inflation. Also, the historical connection between inflation and unemployment can break down, rendering NAIRU less effective.


   How NAIRU Works  

Although there is no formula for calculating a NAIRU level, the Federal Reserve has historically used statistical models and estimates that the NAIRU level is somewhere between 5% to 6% unemployment (St. Louis Fed estimates for 2005-2030 are between 4% and 5%). NAIRU plays a role in the Fed's dual mandate objectives of achieving maximum employment and price stability.



For example, the Fed typically targets an inflation rate of 2% as a medium-term level to maintain. If prices rise too quickly due to a strong economy, and it looks like the Fed's inflation target will be exceeded by the inflation rate, the Fed will tighten monetary policy slowing down the economy and inflation.


   Understanding NAIRU  

According to NAIRU, as unemployment rises over a few years, inflation should decrease. If the economy is performing poorly, inflation tends to fall or subside since businesses can't increase prices due to the lack of consumer demand. If demand for a product decreases, the price of the product falls as fewer consumers want the product resulting in a cut in prices by the business to stimulate demand or buying interest in the product. NAIRU is the level of unemployment that the economy has to rise to before prices begin falling.



Conversely, if unemployment falls below the NAIRU level (the economy is doing well), inflation should increase. If the economy is performing well for many years, companies can raise prices to match demand. Also, the demand for products such as housing, cars, and consumer goods rises, and that demand causes inflationary pressures.



NAIRU represents the lowest level of unemployment that can exist in an economy before inflation begins to rise.






Think of NAIRU as the tipping point between unemployment and rising or falling prices.


   How NAIRU Came About  

In 1958, New-Zealand–born economist William Phillips wrote a paper titled "The Relation between Unemployment and the Rate of Money Wage Rates" in the United Kingdom. In his paper, Phillips described the supposed inverse relationship between unemployment levels and the rate of inflation. This relationship was referred to as the Phillips curve. However, during the severe recession of 1974 to 1975, inflation and unemployment rates both reached historic levels, and people began to doubt the theoretical basis of the Phillips curve.



Milton Friedman and other critics argued that government macroeconomic policies were being driven by a low unemployment target, which caused the expectations of inflation to change. This led to accelerated inflation rather than reduced unemployment. It was then agreed that government economic policies should not be influenced by unemployment levels below a critical level also known as the “natural rate of unemployment."



NAIRU was first introduced in 1975 as the noninflationary rate of unemployment (NIRU) by Franco Modigliani and Lucas Papademos. It was an improvement on Milton Friedman's concept of the "natural rate of unemployment."


   The Correlation Between Unemployment and Inflation  

Suppose that the unemployment rate is at 5% and the inflation rate is 2%. Assuming that both of these values remain the same for a period, it can then be said that when unemployment is under 5%, it is natural for an inflation rate of over 2% to correspond with it. Critics cite that it is unlikely for a static rate of unemployment to last for long periods of time because of different levels of factors affecting the workforce and employers (such as natural disasters and political instability) that can quickly shift this equilibrium.



The theory states that if the actual unemployment rate is less than the NAIRU level for a few years, inflationary expectations rise, so the inflation rate tends to increase. If the actual unemployment rate is higher than the NAIRU level, inflationary expectations fall so the inflation rate decreases. If both the unemployment rate and the NAIRU level are equal, the inflation rate remains constant.


   NAIRU vs. Natural Unemployment  

Natural unemployment, or the natural rate of unemployment, is the minimum unemployment rate resulting from real, or voluntary, economic forces. Natural unemployment reflects the number of people who are unemployed due to the structure of the labor force, such as those replaced by technology or those who lack specific skills to gain employment.



The term full employment is a misnomer since there are always workers looking for employment including college graduates or those displaced by technological advances. In other words, there is always some movement of labor throughout the economy. The movement of labor in and out of employment—whether it's voluntary or not—represents natural unemployment.



NAIRU has to do with the relationship between unemployment and inflation or rising prices. NAIRU is the specific level of unemployment whereby the economy does not cause inflation to increase.


   Limitations of Using NAIRU  

NAIRU is a study of the historical relationship between unemployment and inflation and represents the specific level of unemployment before prices tend to rise or fall. However, in the real world, the historical correlation between inflation and unemployment can break down.



Also, many factors impact unemployment besides inflation. For example, workers who lack the skills needed to get a job would likely face unemployment, while the workers who have the skills are likely to be employed. One of the challenges lies in estimating the NAIRU level for different groups of workers who have different skill sets.




Why Can Low Unemployment Be Bad for the Economy?
If inflation falls below ideally 5% to 6%, strong consumer demand can cause inflation to rise faster than the Federal Reserve's ideal rate of 2%.




What Is 'Natural Unemployment'?
An economy will never have 100% employment due to the fact that there will always be a number of people who are unemployed due to structural forces such as loss of jobs to technology or a mismatch between their skills and what the job market seeks. Also included are those just joining the labor force, such as new graduates.




What Is the Phillips Curve?
This supposed inverse relationship between unemployment levels and inflation was first described by New-Zealand–born economist William Phillips in 1958.


   The Bottom Line  

In real life, the correlation between inflation/dropping prices and unemployment can break down. But historically, the phenomenon has held. The level at which the inflation and unemployment are in equilibrium is known as the non-accelerating inflation rate of unemployment (NAIRU).
What Is a Non-Accredited Investor?  

A non-accredited investor is any investor who does not meet the income or net worth requirements set out by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The concept of a non-accredited investor comes from the various SEC acts and regulations that refer to accredited investors.



An accredited investor can be a bank or a company but is mainly used to distinguish individuals who are considered financially knowledgeable enough to look after their own investing activities without SEC protection. The current standard for an individual accredited investor is a net worth of more than $1 million excluding the value of their primary residence or an income of more than $200,000 annually (or $300,000 combined income with a spouse).



A non-accredited investor, therefore, is anyone making less than $200,000 annually (less than $300,000 including a spouse) that also has a total net worth of less than $1 million when their primary residence is excluded.






On August 26, 2020, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission amended the definition of an accredited investor. According to the SEC's press release, "the amendments allow investors to qualify as accredited investors based on defined measures of professional knowledge, experience or certifications in addition to the existing tests for income or net worth. The amendments also expand the list of entities that may qualify as accredited investors, including by allowing any entity that meets an investments test to qualify." Among other categories, the SEC now defines accredited investors to include the following: individuals who have certain professional certifications, designations or credentials; individuals who are “knowledgeable employees” of a private fund; and SEC- and state-registered investment advisers.


   Understanding Non-Accredited Investors  

Non-accredited investors make up the bulk of investors in the world. When people speak of retail investors, they often mean non-accredited investors. Basically, this term covers everyone that holds less than $1 million in assets, aside from the value they may have in their house, and earns under $200,000, i.e., the vast majority of Americans.





Key Takeaways

A non-accredited investor is any investor who does not meet the income or net worth requirements from the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).Non-accredited investors are anyone who makes less than $200,000 annually ($300,000 including a spouse) with a total net worth of less than $1 million when their primary residence is excluded. The SEC regulates what a non-accredited investor can invest in and what those investments need to provide in terms of documentation and transparency.



Even though those numbers are not as far away as when the definition was set, accredited investors are still in the 95th percentile according to 2015 statistics from the U.S. Census Bureau. The SEC does have the ability to change the definition of accredited investor should inflation and other factors result in too much of the general population meeting the standard. 


   Non-Accredited Investors and Private Companies  

Non-accredited investors are limited in their investment choices for their own safety. After the speculation around the 1929 Crash and the resulting depression, the SEC was created to protect regular people from getting into investments they couldn't afford or understand.



The SEC uses acts and regulations to set out what a non-accredited investor can invest in and what those investments need to provide in terms of documentation and transparency. Private funds, private companies, and hedge funds can do things with investor money that mutual funds cannot simply because they deal primarily with accredited investors.



The SEC assumes that all parties involved know the risks and rewards involved, so they have a lighter regulatory touch where these funds are concerned.



That said, these funds must pay close attention to their compliance and make sure their investor counts stay within the rules because they can lose their regulation status. For some types of private investment, they are only allowed non-accredited investors when they are employees or fit a specific exemption.



Other funds and companies can have unrelated non-accredited investors, but they must keep the number below a certain level. This is the case with Regulation D, which keeps the number of non-accredited investors in a private placement below 35.
What Is a Non-Assessable Stock?  

A non-assessable stock is a class of stock in which the issuing company is not allowed to impose levies on its shareholders for additional funds in order to make further investments. The maximum liability the purchaser of the stock assumes is equal to the initial purchase price of the shares. Stocks issued by U.S. companies and traded on U.S. exchanges (and almost all other exchanges) are generally non-assessable.





Key Takeaways

Non-assessable refers to a class of shares that do not allow the issuer to demand additional payment for the shares from stockholders.The majority of shares are currently non-assessable.In the 19th century, companies issued assessable stock at a discount with the understanding that the issuer could levy an assessment for more funds on shareholders in the future.


   Understanding Non-Assessable Stock  

A non-assessable stock is the opposite of an assessable stocks, a now-defunct type of primary offering. Assessable stock was the primary type of equity issued in the late 1800s. Assessable stock was usually sold at a discount and allowed the issuer to gather additional funds from investors after their initial purchase of the stock.



For example, a share of stock with a face value of $20 might be sold for $5. At some point, the issuer would serve the investors with an assessment for more funds—up to the entire discounted amount (In this example, $15). If an investor refused to pay, the stock returned to the issuing company.



Not surprisingly, assessable stock proved to be unpopular. Most companies switched over to issuing non-assessable stock in the early 1900s, and the last assessable shares were sold in the 1930s.



Although equity was no longer sold at a discount compared to its share price, investors were more confident about buying non-assessable stocks because they no longer had to worry about the possibility that the issuer would force them to invest more money in the stock after the initial transaction.






For any equity offering that is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), it is standard to include the opinion of a law firm that states the shares are "duly authorized, validly issued, fully-paid and non-assessable."



The largest investment the purchaser of a non-assessable stock has to make is the initial purchase price of the shares. The investor may lose the invested amount if the stock price goes to zero. However, the investor will never be required by the issuing company to make additional investments as a condition of their stock ownership.



When a stock is non-assessable, it also means that if the issuing company goes bankrupt, the shareholders cannot lose more money than they invested in the first place.


   Example of a Non-Assessable Stock  

Non-assessable stocks have the word "non-assessable" printed on their stock certificates.













This vintage Pennsylvania Power & Light Company common stock certificate for 20 shares, dating from 1973, contains the phrase "fully paid and non-assessable shares of the common stock without nominal or par value." The phrase is common for boilerplate language.
What Is a Non-Amortizing Loan?  

A non-amortizing loan is a type of loan for which payments on the principal are made by lump sum. As a result, the value of the principal does not decrease at all over the life of the loan. Popular types of non-amortizing loans include interest-only loans or balloon-payment loans.





Key Takeaways:

A non-amortizing loan is a type of loan for which payments on the principal are paid in a lump sum.The value of the loan principal does not decrease over the life of the loan.Interest-only and balloon-payment loans are popular types of non-amortizing loans.


   Understanding Non-Amortizing Loan  

A non-amortizing loan has no amortization schedule because the principal is paid off in a single lump sum. Non-amortizing loans are an alternative type of lending product as most standard loans involve an amortization schedule that determines the monthly principal and interest paid toward a loan each month.






Non-amortizing loans require their principal to be paid back in one lump sum rather than through regular installments and usually feature a short duration and a high-interest rate.



Generally, non-amortizing loans require higher interest rates because they are usually unsecured and offer lower installment payments, reducing the cash flow to the lender. Since they do not have a basic amortization schedule, non-amortizing loans can be more complex for a lender to structure. If any installment payments are made, they must be tracked individually and recorded separately from the principal. If a balloon payment is made, the lender must determine the interest to be collected with the lump sum when the payment is due.


   Types of Non-Amortizing Loans  

Balloon mortgages, interest-only loans, and deferred-interest programs are three general types of loan products that a borrower can look to for non-amortizing loan benefits. These loans do not require any principal to be paid in installment payments during the life of the loan.



Some loans may require only the interest payment in installments while others defer both the principal and interest. These loans are typically for a short duration, as the deferred payment results in higher risk for the lender. They are also not typically considered qualified loans, a status that would allow them to receive certain protections and be resold in the secondary market.


   How Do Borrowers Use Non-Amortizing Loans?  

Non-amortizing loans are commonly used in land contracts and real estate development financing. In these situations, borrowers typically have limited immediate collateral that can be used specifically when a residential or commercial building is being built on a tract of land.



A non-amortizing loan provides the borrower with a specific amount of time to build a property, after which the borrower can potentially refinance or obtain a takeout loan with better loan terms using the newly built property as the collateral.



These types of loans proliferated in the era preceding the financial crisis of 2008 when rogue mortgage industry practices became widely used to lure consumers to take on mortgages beyond their affordability.


   Special Considerations  

Generally, non-amortizing loans can serve borrowers in special situations. These loans give a borrower a specified timeframe within which to repay the principal without the need for monthly installment payments. This can help borrowers who plan to save on their own over the life of the loan. These products can also target borrowers who have prospects for increasing their monthly income during the loan’s timeframe.
What Are Nonbank Financial Companies?  

Nonbank financial companies (NBFCs), also known as nonbank financial institutions (NBFIs), are financial institutions that offer various banking services but do not have a banking license. Generally, these institutions are not allowed to take traditional demand deposits—readily available funds, such as those in checking or savings accounts—from the public. This limitation keeps them outside the scope of conventional oversight from federal and state financial regulators.



Nonbank financial companies fall under the oversight of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which describes them as companies "predominantly engaged in a financial activity" when more than 85% of their consolidated annual gross revenues or consolidated assets are financial in nature. Examples of NBFCs include investment banks, mortgage lenders, money market funds, insurance companies, hedge funds, private equity funds, and P2P lenders.





Key Takeaways

Nonbank financial companies (NBFCs), also known as nonbank financial institutions (NBFIs) are entities that provide certain bank-like financial services but do not hold a banking license.NBFCs are not subject to the banking regulations and oversight by federal and state authorities adhered to by traditional banks.Investment banks, mortgage lenders, money market funds, insurance companies, hedge funds, private equity funds, and P2P lenders are all examples of NBFCs.Since the Great Recession, NBFCs have proliferated in number and type, playing a key role in meeting the credit demand unmet by traditional banks.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Understanding NBFCs  

NBFCs can offer services such as loans and credit facilities, currency exchange, retirement planning, money markets, underwriting, and merger activities.



The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act defines three types of nonbank financial companies: foreign nonbank financial companies, U.S. nonbank financial companies, and U.S. nonbank financial companies supervised by the Federal Reserve Board of Governors.


  Foreign nonbank financial companies  

Foreign nonbank financial companies are incorporated or organized outside the U.S. and are predominantly engaged in financial activities such as those listed above. Foreign nonbanks may or may not have branches in the United States.


  U.S. nonbank financial companies  

U.S. nonbank financial companies, like their foreign nonbank counterparts, are predominantly engaged in nonbank financial activities but have been incorporated or organized in the United States. U.S. nonbanks are restricted from serving as Farm Credit System institutions, national securities exchanges, or any one of several other types of financial institutions.


  U.S. nonbank financial companies supervised by the Board of Governors  

The main difference between these nonbank financial companies and others is that they fall under the supervision of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors. This is based on a determination by the Board that financial distress or the “nature, scope, size, scale, concentration, interconnectedness, or mix of activities” at these institutions could threaten the financial stability of the United States.


   Shadow Banks and the 2008 Financial Crisis  

NBFCs existed long before the Dodd-Frank Act. In 2007, they were given the moniker "shadow banks" by economist Paul McCulley, at the time the managing director of Pacific Investment Management Company LLC (PIMCO), to describe the expanding matrix of institutions contributing to the then-current easy-money lending environment—which in turn led to the subprime mortgage meltdown and the subsequent 2008 financial crisis.



Although the term sounds somewhat sinister, many well-known brokerages and investment firms were engaging in shadow-banking activity. Investment bankers Lehman Brothers and Bear Stearns were two of the most well-known NBFCs at the center of the 2008 crisis.



As a result of the ensuing financial crisis, traditional banks found themselves under closer regulatory scrutiny, which led to a prolonged contraction in their lending activities. As the authorities tightened up on the banks, the banks, in turn, tightened up on loan or credit applicants.



The more stringent requirements gave rise to more people needing other funding sources—and hence, the growth of nonbank institutions that were able to operate outside the constraints of banking regulations. In short, in the decade following the financial crisis of 2007-08, NBFCs proliferated in large numbers and varying types, playing a key role in meeting the credit demand unmet by traditional banks.


   NBFC Controversy  

Advocates of NBFCs argue that these institutions play an important role in meeting the rising demand for credit, loans, and other financial services. Customers include both businesses and individuals—especially those who might have trouble qualifying under the more stringent standards set by traditional banks.



Not only do NBFCs provide alternate sources of credit, proponents say, they also offer more efficient ones. NBFCs cut out the intermediary—the role banks often play—to let clients deal with them directly, lowering costs, fees, and rates, in a process called disintermediation. Providing financing and credit is important to keep the money supply liquid and the economy working well.





Pros

Alternate source of funding and credit
Direct contact with clients, eliminating intermediaries
High yields for investors
Liquidity for the financial system



Cons

Non-regulated, not subject to oversight
Non-transparent operations
Systemic risk to financial system, economy






Even so, critics are troubled by NBFCs' lack of accountability to regulators and their ability to operate outside the customary banking rules and regulations. In some cases, they may face oversight by other authorities—the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) if they're public companies, or the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) if they're brokerages. However, in other cases, they may be able to operate with a lack of transparency.



All of this could put an increasing strain on the financial system. NBFCs were at the epicenter of the 2008 financial crisis that led to the Great Recession. Critics point out that they have increased in numbers since then, and therefore represent a greater risk than ever before.


   Real-World Example of NBFCs  

Entities ranging from mortgage provider Quicken Loans to financial services firm Fidelity Investments qualify as NBFCs. However, the fastest-growing segment of the non-bank lending sector has been in peer-to-peer (P2P) lending.



The growth of P2P lending has been facilitated by the power of social networking, which brings like-minded people from all over the world together. P2P lending websites, such as LendingClub Corp. (LC), StreetShares, and Prosper, are designed to connect prospective borrowers with investors willing to invest their money in loans that can generate high yields.



P2P borrowers tend to be individuals who could not otherwise qualify for a traditional bank loan or who prefer to do business with non-banks. Investors have the opportunity to build a diversified portfolio of loans by investing small sums across a range of borrowers.



Although P2P lending only represents a small fraction of the total loans issued in the United States, a report from IBIS World suggests that $938.6 million is held in Peer-to-Peer Lending Platforms in the US in 2022 and that this has increased 7.9% over the past year.




What Are Examples of Nonbank Financial Companies?
There are many types of NBFC. Some of the most familiar are:Casinos and card clubsSecurities and commodities firms (e.g., brokers/dealers, investment advisers, mutual funds, hedge funds, or commodity traders)Money services businesses (MSB)Insurance companiesLoan or finance companiesOperators of credit card systems




What Is the Difference Between NBFCs and NBFIs?
Generally, none. These are alternative names for the same type of company.




Why Are NBFCs Called Shadow Banks?
NBFCs are often called shadow banks as they function a lot like banks but with fewer regulatory controls. Barring a few, they cannot accept deposits from people and so raise money from bonds or borrow from banks.


   The Bottom Line  

Nonbank financial companies (NBFCs), also known as nonbank financial institutions (NBFIs), are entities that provide similar services to a bank but do not hold a banking license. Because of this, they are not regulated or overseen by federal and state authorities. There are many NBFCs. Investment banks, mortgage lenders, money market funds, insurance companies, hedge funds, private equity funds, and P2P lenders are all examples of NBFCs.



Since the Great Recession, NBFCs have proliferated in number and type, playing a key role in meeting the credit demand unmet by traditional banks. Their critics say that they pose a risk to the US economy; their proponents say they offer a valuable, alternative source of credit and funding.
What is a Non-Cash Charge?  

A non-cash charge is a write-down or accounting expense that does not involve a cash payment. They can represent meaningful changes to a company's financial standing, weighing on earnings without affecting short-term capital in any way. Depreciation, amortization, depletion, stock-based compensation, and asset impairments are common non-cash charges that reduce earnings but not cash flows.





Key Takeaways

A non-cash charge is a write-down or accounting expense that does not involve a cash payment.Depreciation, amortization, depletion, stock-based compensation, and asset impairments are common non-cash charges that reduce earnings but not cash flows.﻿Non-cash charges are necessary for firms that use accrual basis accounting.


   Understanding a Non-Cash Charge  

Non-cash charges can be found in a company’s income statement. Charges unaccompanied by a cash outflow must be recorded and are necessary for firms that use accrual basis accounting, a system used by companies to record their financial transactions, irrespective of whether a cash transfer has been made.


  Accrual Accounting  

Depreciation, amortization, and depletion are expensed throughout the useful life of an asset that was paid for in cash at an earlier date. If a company's profit did not fully reflect the cash outlay for the asset at that time, it must be reflected over a set number of subsequent periods. These charges are made against accounts on the balance sheet, reducing the value of items in that statement.



Depreciation: When a company buys new equipment, a percentage of the purchase price is deducted over the course of the asset's useful life to factor in things like wear and tear. That expense is recorded every year in the income statement as a non-cash charge.
Amortization: Amortization is very similar to depreciation, but applies to intangible assets such as patents, trademarks and licenses rather than physical property and equipment. If a company spends $100,000 on a patent that lasts for a decade, it records an amortization expense of $10,000 each year.
Depletion: Depletion is a technique used to allocate the cost of extracting natural resources such as timber, minerals, and oil from the earth. Unlike depreciation and amortization, which mainly describe the deduction of expenses due to the aging of equipment and property, depletion is the actual physical depletion of natural resources by companies. 


  Non-Recurring Charges  

Non-cash charges can also reflect one-time accounting losses that are driven by changing balance sheet items. Such charges are often the result of changes to accounting policy, corporate restructuring, the changing market value of assets or updated assumptions on realizable future cash flows.



General Electric Co.’s (GE) $22 billion write-down of the value of its struggling power business in October 2018, referred to as a goodwill impairment charge, is a great example of a non-recurring non-cash charge.﻿﻿ Goodwill is added to the balance sheet when an acquisition exceeds the fair value of the acquired entity, and it must be impaired in the future if the value of the acquired assets falls below original expectations. GE’s big accounting charge, mainly linked to its $10.6 billion acquisition of France-based Alstom, understandably raised eyebrows.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿


   Special Considerations  

Non-cash charges, like other types of write-downs, reduce reported earnings and, as a result, can weigh on share prices. Companies often seek to play down the significance of non-cash charges, particularly one-off ones, adjusting earnings to exclude their impact from financial figures.



Investors are tasked with determining whether non-cash charges are a cause for alarm. Non-cash expenses are often pre-flagged and harmless. However, some may appear out the blue and serve as potential red flags of poor accounting, mismanagement and a drastic shift in fortunes.
What Is a Non-Cash Item?  

A non-cash item has two different meanings. In banking, the term is used to describe a negotiable instrument, such as a check or bank draft, that is deposited but cannot be credited until it clears the issuer's account.



Alternatively, in accounting, a non-cash item refers to an expense listed on an income statement, such as capital depreciation, investment gains, or losses, that does not involve a cash payment.





Key Takeaways

In banking, a non-cash item is a negotiable instrument—such as a check or bank draft—that is deposited but cannot be credited until it clears the issuer's account.In accounting, a non-cash item refers to an expense listed on an income statement, such as capital depreciation, investment gains, or losses, that does not involve a cash payment.


   Understanding Non-Cash Items  
  Accounting  

Income statements, a tool used by companies in financial statements to tell investors how much money they made and lost, can include several items that affect earnings but not cash flow. That’s because in accrual accounting, companies measure their income by also including transactions that do not involve a cash payment to give a more accurate picture of their current financial condition.



Examples of non-cash items include deferred income tax, write-downs in the value of acquired companies, employee stock-based compensation, as well as depreciation and amortization.


  Banking  

Banks often put a hold of up to several days on a large non-cash item, such as a check, depending upon the customer's account history and what is known about the payor (e.g., if the issuing organization has the financial means to cover the check presented).



The short period during which both banks have the funds available to them—between when the check is presented and the money is withdrawn from the payor's account—is called the float.


  Depreciation and Amortization Example  

Depreciation and amortization are perhaps the two most common examples of expenses that reduce taxable income without impacting cash flow. Companies factor in the deteriorating value of their assets over time in a process known as depreciation for tangibles and amortization for intangibles.



For example, say a manufacturing business called company A forks out $200,000 for a new piece of high-tech equipment to help boost production. The new machinery is expected to last 10 years, so company A’s accountants advise spreading the cost over the entire period of its useful life, rather than expensing it all in one big hit. They also factor in that the equipment has a salvage value, the amount it will be worth after 10 years, of $30,000.



Depreciation seeks to match up revenue with its associated expenses. Dividing $170,000 by 10 means that the equipment purchased will be shown as a non-cash item expense of $17,000 per year over the next decade. However, no money was actually paid out when these annual expenses were recorded, so they appear on income statements as a non-cash charge.


   Special Considerations  

Non-cash items frequently crop up in financial statements, yet investors often overlook them and assume all is above board. Like all areas of financial accounting, it sometimes pays to take a more skeptical approach.



One of the biggest risks associated with non-cash items is that they are often based on guesswork, influenced by past experiences. Users of accrual accounting have regularly been found guilty, innocently or not, of failing to accurately estimate revenues and expenses.



For example, company A’s equipment may need to be written off before 10 years, or perhaps prove to be useful for longer than expected. Its estimated salvage value may be wrong, too. Eventually, businesses are required to update and report actual expenses, which can lead to big surprises.
What Is a Non-Compete Agreement?  

A non-compete agreement is a legal agreement or clause in a contract specifying that an employee must not enter into competition with an employer after the employment period is over. These agreements also prohibit the employee from revealing proprietary information or secrets to any other parties during or after employment.



Many contracts specify a certain length of time when the employee is barred from working for a competitor after they end employment. Employers may require employees to sign non-compete agreements to keep their place in the market. Those required to sign these agreements may include employees, contractors, and consultants.





Key Takeaways

A non-compete agreement legally binds a current or former employee from competing with an employer for a specific time after employment ceases.Under such an agreement, the employee must not reveal any trade secrets learned during employment.These contracts outline how long the employee must refrain from working with a competitor, in a geographic location, or in a specific market.Some states, like California, refuse to enforce non-compete agreements.Non-compete agreements can prevent workers from getting a job in their field if they leave a position.



The validity and enforcement of a non-compete vary by jurisdiction and may require the former employer to keep paying the ex-employee a base salary during the non-compete period.






On Jan. 5, 2023, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) proposed a ban on noncompete clauses, saying that eliminating curbs that affect one in five American workers will increase wages by nearly $300 billion a year. The rule would apply to employees and independent contractors, paid and unpaid. It would require employers "to rescind existing noncompetes and actively inform workers that they are no longer in effect." The public can submit comments through March 10, 2023.






   Understanding Non-Compete Agreements  

Non-compete agreements are signed when the relationship between employer and employee begins. They give the employer control over specific actions of the employee—even after that relationship ends.



These agreements have specific clauses stating that the employee will not work for a competitor after their employment is over, regardless of whether they are terminated or resign. Sometimes, employees are prevented from working for a competitor even if the new job wouldn't involve disclosing trade secrets.



Some contract terms may include the length of time the employee is bound to the non-compete agreement, the geographic location the employee may work in post-employment, or the market they may work in. These agreements may also be called a "covenant not to compete" or a "restrictive covenant."



Non-competes ensure the employee will not use information learned during employment to start a business and compete with the employer once work is over. It also ensures the employer keeps its place in the market.






Non-competes should be designed to protect the best interests of the employer and the employee.


   Components of a Non-Compete Agreement  

Non-compete agreements are generally not standardized, but many have similar restrictive elements. Some of the components you might see in a non-compete agreement are:



Duration: Non-compete agreements cover specific time frames, such as six months or one year. Long-term agreements are prohibitively restrictive for employees because they can keep them from finding work after leaving an employer.Geography: Some agreements consider geographical location, prohibiting an ex-employee from working in specific areas for a set time.Scope: Non-compete agreements must specify the type of work or services that an ex-employee cannot provide. They should include information, techniques, procedures, and practices that are unique to the business or otherwise proprietary.Competitors: The competition must be defined in the agreement. The company doesn't need to list them all, but it should give a general idea of the industry and types of businesses the employee agrees to not work in.Damages: Employers define the damages they are entitled to if an employee breaches the agreement.


   When and Why Are Non-Compete Agreements Used?  

Businesses use non-compete agreements to protect their intellectual property, trade secrets, proprietary information, procedures used to produce their goods and services, or to maintain their competitive advantage.



If a contract were not in place regarding the disbursement of information to competitors, many businesses would lose their advantage. Ex-employees could legally use the information they obtained at one company to help a new employer gain an advantage. Additionally, an ex-employee might be able to start their own business using information acquired from another firm.



If this information is provided to competitors, a company might be forced out of the market and industry—this makes non-competes an essential part of the hiring process for many enterprises.


   Industries That Use Non-Compete Agreements  

Non-compete agreements are common in the media. For example, a television station might have legitimate concerns that a popular meteorologist may siphon viewers away if they began working for a rival station in the same area. This would be considered a reasonable cause to sign a non-compete agreement in most jurisdictions. Other industries where these agreements are typically found include:



Financial servicesCorporate managementManufacturingInformation technology






Non-compete agreements are enforced differently in many states. Therefore, it's best to consult an employment lawyer to find out about non-competes in your state.


   Legalities of Non-Compete Agreements  

In the U.S., the legal status of non-compete agreements is a matter of state jurisdiction. States vary widely in their enforcement and recognition of non-compete agreements, and many state legislatures have updated legislation related to non-compete agreements.



Non-compete agreements cannot be enforced in North Dakota and Oklahoma. California does not recognize non-compete agreements, and an employer who binds an employee to one after employment is over can be sued. Hawaii banned non-competes for high-tech companies in 2015. In 2016, Utah changed legislation, limiting new non-compete agreements to only a year.



Most states adopt some sort of standard that a non-compete agreement must not be egregious in the length of time or geographic scope and shouldn't meaningfully restrict a worker's ability to find employment. However, jurisdictions differ widely in interpreting what terms of a non-compete agreement would be overly demanding.


   Non-Compete vs. Non-Disclosure Agreements  

Non-compete agreements are distinct from non-disclosure agreements (NDAs), which generally don't prevent an employee from working for a competitor.



Instead, NDAs prevent the employee from revealing information the employer considers proprietary or confidential, such as client lists, underlying technology, or information about products in development. 


   Pros and Cons of Non-Compete Agreements  



Pros

Protect trade secrets and proprietary information
May inspire more innovations from employees who sign them
Match employers with employees looking for long term positions
Reduce employee turnover



Cons

Weaken the bargaining power of employees
Significant amount of wait time before applying for another job in the same field
Few social benefits
Can restrict employees without trade secrets





  Pros Explained  

Protect trade secrets: These agreements can protect employers from employees leaving for a competitor and sharing proprietary information. That being stated, the agreements should be fair to both the employee signing the agreement and the employer who is issuing it.Inspire more innovations: Non-compete agreements can keep ideas and information from spreading, encouraging competitors to innovate to keep up with other businesses.Used for employee matchmaking: A non-compete agreement may be used to match employers with employees who plan on staying put in a job or prize being trusted with valuable information.Reduce worker turnover or exit: Non-competes can reduce employee turnover because they tend to restrict other employment options. Additionally, businesses with non-competes may need to provide training and education for their employees to continue innovating, benefiting their careers and market value.


  Cons Explained  

Weaken employee bargaining power: Workers are prohibited from seeking a better paying position or bargaining for more pay or benefits when under a non-compete.Wait time for a new job can be significant: Non-compete wait periods may keep employees who decide to leave from finding meaningful employment in their fields of expertise. Employees who sign non-compete agreements may leave their industry entirely if it is too hard to find a new job after signing one.Few social benefits: Non-competes generally only benefit the company, not providing much in the way of social benefits for employees.Can restrict employees without trade secrets: The U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Economic Policy reported that less than half of workers under non-compete agreements have trade secrets. Unfortunately, this means that more than half of workers under non-compete agreements are unnecessarily restricted by these clauses, further hampering their ability to bargain.




How Long Do Most Non-Competes Last?
Typical non-compete periods are six months to one year, but they can last longer. However, it is difficult for businesses to enforce long-term non-compete agreements legally. Some states will not enforce these agreements, and a few do not recognize them as legal.




How Do I Get Around a Non-Compete Agreement?
If you've signed a non-compete and break the agreement, you could, in theory, be sued. State laws (which differ) set the enforceability (or not) of non-compete agreements.




Are Non-Competes Really Enforceable?
State laws differ on the legality and enforceability of non-competes. The law firm Beck Reed Riden LLP has surveyed states and compiled a list of their stances on non-compete agreements, protected interests, standards, and exemptions.


   The Bottom Line  

Signing a non-compete agreement may not always be in your best interest, but it's usually in the best interest of your potential employer. It helps to talk to an employment attorney before you sign one for clarification on your state's laws and consider the possibility that you may have difficulty finding work in your field if you leave your position.



Not all states uphold non-compete agreements, but some do, making it worthwhile to know ahead of time how a non-compete agreement might play out if you leave your job or break your agreement.
What Is a Non-Competitive Tender?  

A non-competitive tender is an offer to buy United States Treasury securities that is made by non-institutional investors. These smaller investors do not participate in a formal auction for the securities but instead accept the market price set by other participants. By contrast, competitive tender offers are those made by large institutional buyers who collectively set the price of Treasury securities through a Dutch auction process.





Key Takeaways

A non-competitive tender is an offer to purchase Treasury securities made by smaller investors.Non-competitive tenders don’t specify the price or terms of the security. Instead, the terms are set by a competitive bidding process among large institutional buyers.Investors can use non-competitive tenders to purchase between $10,000 and $500,000 worth of Treasury securities at a time.


   How Non-Competitive Tenders Work  

The United States Treasury sells trillions of dollars of securities every year. The buyers of these securities range from large organizations, such as primary dealer banks and foreign governments, to individual retail investors. Rather than negotiating with all of these buyers directly, the Treasury instead holds regular auctions with certain large buyers and then uses the price set by those auctions to sell securities to smaller investors.



In 2019, the Treasury held 322 auctions through which it issued almost $12 trillion in securities. At these auctions, large institutional buyers place their bids for the price and amount of Treasury securities they wish to purchase. The Treasury, wishing to pay the lowest amount of interest possible on its debts, first accepts the bids with the lowest yields and then gradually accepts more expensive offers until it has raised the quantity of funds it requires. Through this competitive bidding process, the Treasury determines the fair market value of its securities and then sells additional securities to non-institutional buyers at that market price.﻿﻿



There are several advantages associated with purchasing Treasury securities through non-competitive tenders. Using non-competitive tenders can allow small investors to purchase securities without paying expensive brokerage fees, such as by using the government-run Treasury Direct platform. Using non-competitive tenders can also assure investors that they will receive a fair price on their investment, since the price they receive is set by the real trading activity of large institutional buyers. The requirements for investing using non-competitive tenders are also relatively modest, with a minimum offer size of only $10,000 and a maximum of $500,000.


   Example of a Non-Competitive Tender  

Using the Dutch auction process, the Treasury would begin by offering securities at a very low yield (one which it suspects will be too low to attract any bids from the auction participants). Then, they would gradually raise the offered yield until it begins attracting offers and would keep doing so until the total number of bids made has been sufficient to absorb all of the securities the Treasury wishes to sell. 



The participants in this auction process would be institutional buyers, and their offers would be considered competitive tenders. Once the Treasury has received the desired quantity of tenders, all of the auction participants who submitted winning bids will be able to purchase their securities at the higher yield associated with the last successful bid.﻿﻿ 



For example, if an investor with a successful bid was willing to purchase securities at a yield of only 0.10%, and if the last investor to issue a successful bid offered to purchase at a yield of 0.30%, then all of the investors with successful bids would be paid the higher yield of 0.30%, even if they were initially willing to accept lower yields. That final yield, 0.30%, would then apply to any non-competitive tenders offered by non-institutional investors. In this manner, the competitive bidding process of the institutional buyers sets the price received by the smaller buyers who use non-competitive tenders.
What Is Non-Controlling Interest?  

A non-controlling interest, also known as a minority interest, is an ownership position wherein a shareholder owns less than 50% of outstanding shares and has no control over decisions. Non-controlling interests are measured at the net asset value of entities and do not account for potential voting rights.



Most shareholders of public companies today would be classified as holding a non-controlling interest, with even a 5% to 10% equity stake considered to be a large holding in a single company. A non-controlling interest may be contrasted with a controlling, or majority interest in a company, where the investor does have voting rights and can often affect the course of the company.





Key Takeaways

A non-controlling interest, also known as a minority interest, is an ownership position whereby a shareholder owns less than 50% of outstanding shares.As a result, minority interest shareholders have no individual control over corporate decisions or votes by themselves.A direct non-controlling interest receives a proportionate allocation of all (pre- and post-acquisition amounts) recorded equity of a subsidiary.An indirect non-controlling interest receives a proportionate allocation of a subsidiary's post-acquisition amounts only.The opposite of a non-controlling interest is a controlling interest, where a shareholder has voting rights to determine a corporate decision.


   Understanding Non-Controlling Interest  

Most shareholders are granted a set of rights when they purchase common stock, including the right to a cash dividend if the company has sufficient earnings and declares a dividend. Shareholders may also have the right to vote on major corporate decisions, such as a merger or company sale. A corporation can issue different classes of stock, each with different shareholder rights.



Generally, there are two types of non-controlling interests: a direct non-controlling interest and an indirect non-controlling interest. A direct non-controlling interest receives a proportionate allocation of all (pre and post-acquisition amounts) recorded equity of a subsidiary. An indirect non-controlling interest receives a proportionate allocation of a subsidiary's post-acquisition amounts only. 



It is generally not until an investor controls 5% to 10% of the shares that they communicate specific proposals to the board and management, propose changes to the board of directors, propose changes at a shareholder meeting and team with other investors to make their actions more likely to succeed. Such investors are termed Activist investors. Activist investors range widely in style of action and objectives. Objectives range from seeking operational improvements to restructuring to natural environment and social policy.


   Financial Statements and Non-Controlling Interest  

Consolidation is a set of financial statements that combine the accounting records of several entities into one set of financials. These typically include a parent company, as the majority owner, a subsidiary, or a purchased firm, and a non-controlling interest company. The consolidated financials allows investors, creditors, and company managers to view the three separate entities as if all three firms are one company.



A consolidation also assumes that a parent and a non-controlling interest company jointly purchased the equity of a subsidiary company. Any transactions between the parent and the subsidiary company, or between the parent and the non-controlling interest firm, are eliminated before the consolidated financial statements are created.


   Example of Non-Controlling Interest  

Assume that a parent company buys 80% of XYZ firm and that a non-controlling interest company buys the remaining 20% of the new subsidiary, XYZ. The subsidiary’s assets and liabilities on the balance sheet are adjusted to fair market value, and those values are used on the consolidated financial statements. If the parent and a non-controlling interest pay more than the fair value of the net assets, the excess is posted to a goodwill account in the consolidated financial statements.



Goodwill is an additional expense incurred to buy a company for more than the fair market value, and goodwill is amortized into an expense account over time after an impairment test. This is done under the purchase acquisition accounting method approved by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB).
What Is a Non-Covered Security?  

A non-covered security is an SEC designation under which the cost basis of securities that are small and of limited scope may not be reported to the IRS. The adjusted cost basis of non-covered securities is only reported to the taxpayer, and not the IRS.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

A non-covered security is an SEC designation under which the cost basis of securities that are small and of limited scope may not be reported to the IRSAn investment security bought in 2011 but transferred in the same year to a DRIP that uses the average cost method of calculating the cost basis is a non-covered security. Stocks are considered non-covered if sold by foreign intermediaries and foreigners (i.e., individuals absent from country for at least 183 days of the calendar year).Investment sales are also divided into covered and non-covered securities using Form 8949.


   What Is a Covered Security?  

In 2008, Congress passed legislation which required brokers to report the adjusted cost basis for securities and mutual funds to both the investors and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), effective tax year 2011.﻿﻿ Since 2011, the cost basis of certain securities has been reported through Form 1099-B which indicates whether the capital loss or gain from the sale of the security is short or long term. Any transaction that occurs on or after this effective year is a covered security and is reported on Form 1099-B﻿.﻿﻿ A covered security is defined as:



Any stock in a corporation, including American Depositary Receipts (ADRs), acquired on or after Jan. 1, 2011
Mutual funds acquired on or after January 1, 2012
Stocks or ADRs acquired through a dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) on or after Jan. 1, 2012
Less complex bonds, derivatives, and options purchased on or after Jan. 1, 2014
More complex bonds, derivatives, and options purchased on or after Jan. 1, 2016﻿﻿


   Understanding Non-Covered Security  

Non-covered securities refer to any investments purchased before the effective dates listed above. The detailed cost basis following the sale of a non-covered security is not required to be reported to the IRS by a broker. However, the gross proceeds or redemption value from a sale may still be reported to the IRS. While a broker will still report the cost basis to the investor or taxpayer, it is up to the investor to report this information to the IRS through Schedule D on Form 1040 for shares sold, whether covered or non-covered. Even if the taxpayer does not receive a cost basis report, they must still report their adjusted cost basis to the IRS.






The IRS considers securities to be non-covered if they are acquired through a corporate action and if their cost basis is derived from other non-covered securities.



Corporate actions, such as stock splits, stock dividends, and redemptions, usually result in additional shares for the investor. The additional shares will be classified as non-covered if they were received through non-covered shares.﻿﻿ For example, an individual who bought 100 shares in a company in 2010 that split three-for-one in 2013 will receive an additional 200 shares. Even though the 200 shares were acquired after 2011, they are considered non-covered because they were split from shares acquired before 2011.



A dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) allows an investor to reinvest his dividends for additional shares in the same company.﻿﻿ An investment security that was purchased in 2011 but transferred in the same year to a DRIP that uses the average cost method of calculating the cost basis for an asset is a non-covered security. But if the transfer occurred after 2011, it will remain a covered security.﻿﻿



Investment sales are divided into covered and non-covered securities using Form 8949. Transactions on non-covered securities not reported on Form 1099-B are reported on Form 8949 where Code C is used for short-term holdings, and Code F for long-term holdings.﻿﻿
What Is a Non-Deliverable Forward (NDF)?  

A non-deliverable forward (NDF) is a cash-settled, and usually short-term, forward contract. The notional amount is never exchanged, hence the name "non-deliverable." Two parties agree to take opposite sides of a transaction for a set amount of money—at a contracted rate, in the case of a currency NDF. This means that counterparties settle the difference between contracted NDF price and the prevailing spot price. The profit or loss is calculated on the notional amount of the agreement by taking the difference between the agreed-upon rate and the spot rate at the time of settlement.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   Understanding Non-Deliverable Forwards (NDF)  

A non-deliverable forward (NDF) is a two-party currency derivatives contract to exchange cash flows between the NDF and prevailing spot rates. One party will pay the other the difference resulting from this exchange.



Cash flow = (NDF rate - Spot rate) * Notional amount



NDFs are traded over-the-counter (OTC) and commonly quoted for time periods from one month up to one year. They are most frequently quoted and settled in U.S. dollars and have become a popular instrument since the 1990s for corporations seeking to hedge exposure to illiquid currencies.



A non-deliverable forward (NDF) is usually executed offshore, meaning outside the home market of the illiquid or untraded currency. For example, if a country's currency is restricted from moving offshore, it won't be possible to settle the transaction in that currency with someone outside the restricted country. However, the two parties can settle the NDF by converting all profits and losses on the contract to a freely traded currency. They can then pay each other the profits/losses in that freely traded currency.



That said, non-deliverable forwards are not limited to illiquid markets or currencies. They can be used by parties looking to hedge or expose themselves to a particular asset, but who are not interested in delivering or receiving the underlying product.





Key Takeaways

A non-deliverable forward (NDF) is a two-party currency derivatives contract to exchange cash flows between the NDF and prevailing spot rates.The largest NDF markets are in the Chinese yuan, Indian rupee, South Korean won, New Taiwan dollar, and Brazilian real.The largest segment of NDF trading is done via the U.S. dollar and takes place in London, with active markets also in Singapore and New York.


   Non-Deliverable Forward Structure  

All NDF contracts set out the currency pair, notional amount, fixing date, settlement date, and NDF rate, and stipulate that the prevailing spot rate on the fixing date be used to conclude the transaction.



The fixing date is the date at which the difference between the prevailing spot market rate and the agreed-upon rate is calculated. The settlement date is the date by which the payment of the difference is due to the party receiving payment. The settlement of an NDF is closer to that of a forward rate agreement (FRA) than to a traditional forward contract.



If one party agrees to buy Chinese yuan (sell dollars), and the other agrees to buy U.S. dollars (sell yuan), then there is potential for a non-deliverable forward between the two parties. They agree to a rate of 6.41 on $1 million U.S. dollars. The fixing date will be in one month, with settlement due shortly after.



If in one month the rate is 6.3, the yuan has increased in value relative to the U.S. dollar. The party who bought the yuan is owed money. If the rate increased to 6.5, the yuan has decreased in value (U.S. dollar increase), so the party who bought U.S. dollars is owed money. 


   NDF Currencies  

The largest NDF markets are in the Chinese yuan, Indian rupee, South Korean won, New Taiwan dollar, Brazilian real, and Russian ruble. The largest segment of NDF trading takes place in London, with active markets also in New York, Singapore, and Hong Kong.



The largest segment of NDF trading is done via the U.S. dollar. There are also active markets using the euro, the Japanese yen and, to a lesser extent, the British pound and the Swiss franc.
What Is a Non-Deliverable Swap (NDS)?  

A non-deliverable swap (NDS) is a variation on a currency swap between major and minor currencies that is restricted or not convertible. This means that there is no actual delivery of the two currencies involved in the swap, unlike a typical currency swap where there is physical exchange of currency flows. Instead, periodic settlement of a NDS is done on a cash basis, generally in U.S. dollars.



The settlement value is based on the difference between the exchange rate specified in the swap contract and the spot rate, with one party paying the other the difference. A non-deliverable swap can be viewed as a series of non-deliverable forwards bundled together.





Key Takeaways

A non-deliverable swap (NDS) is a type of currency swap that is paid and settled in U.S. dollar equivalents rather than the two currencies involved in the swap itself.As a result, the swap is considered non-convertible (restricted) since there is no physical delivery of the underlying currencies.NDS are typically used when the underlying currencies are difficult to obtain, are illiquid, or are volatile - for instance, for developing country currencies or restricted currencies like Cuba or North Korea.


   Understanding Non-Deliverable Swaps (NDS)  

Non-deliverable swaps are used by multi-national corporations to mitigate the risk that they may not be allowed to repatriate profits because of currency controls. They also use NDSs to hedge the risk of abrupt devaluation or depreciation in a restricted currency with little liquidity, and to avoid the prohibitive cost of exchanging currencies in the local market. Financial institutions in nations with exchange restrictions use NDSs to hedge their foreign currency loan exposure.



The key variables in a NDS are:



the notional amounts (that is, the amounts of the transaction)the two currencies involved (the non-deliverable currency and the settlement currency)the settlement datesthe contract rates for the swap, andthe fixing rates and dates – the specific dates on which the spot rates will be sourced from reputable and independent market sources.


   NDS Example  

Consider a financial institution – let’s call it LendEx – based in Argentina, that has taken a five-year US$10 million loan from a U.S. lender at a fixed interest rate of 4% per annum payable semi-annually. LendEx has converted the U.S. dollar into Argentine pesos at the current exchange rate of 5.4, for lending to local businesses. However, it is concerned about the future depreciation of the peso, which will make it more expensive to make the interest payments and principal repayment in U.S. dollars. It therefore enters into a currency swap with an overseas counterparty on the following terms:



Notional amounts (N) – US$400,000 for interest payments and US$10 million for the principal repayment.Currencies involved – Argentine peso and U.S. dollar.Settlement dates – 10 in all, the first one coinciding with the first interest payment and the 10th and final one coinciding with the final interest payment plus principal repayment.Contract rates for the swap (F) – For the sake of simplicity, say a contract rate of 6 (pesos per dollar) for the interest payments and 7 for the principal repayment.Fixing rates and dates (S) – Two days before the settlement date, sourced at 12 noon EST from Reuters.



The methodology for determining the NDS follows the following equation:



Profit = (NS – NF) / S = N (1 – F/S)



Here’s how the NDS works out in this example. On the first fixing date – which is two days before the first interest payment / settlement date – assume the spot exchange rate is 5.7 pesos to the U.S. dollar. Since LendEx has contracted to buy dollars at a rate of 6, it would have to pay the difference between this contract rate and the spot rate times the notional interest amount to the counterparty. This net settlement amount would be in U.S. dollars and works out to -$20,000 [i.e. (5.7 - 6.0) x 400,000 = -120,000 / 6 = -$20,000].



On the second fixing date, assume the spot exchange rate is 6.5 to the U.S. dollar. In this case, because the spot exchange rate is worse than the contracted rate, LendEx will receive a net payment of $33,333 [calculated as (6.5 – 6.0) x 400,000 = 200,000 / 6 = $33,333].



This process continues until the final repayment date. A key point to note here is that because this is a non-deliverable swap, settlements between the counterparties are made in U.S. dollars, and not in Argentine pesos.
What Is a Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA)?  

A non-disclosure agreement (NDA) is a legally binding contract that establishes a confidential relationship. The party or parties signing the agreement agree that sensitive information they may obtain will not be made available to any others. An NDA may also be referred to as a confidentiality agreement.



Non-disclosure agreements are common for businesses entering into negotiations with other businesses. They allow the parties to share sensitive information without fear that it will end up in the hands of competitors. In this case, it may be called a mutual non-disclosure agreement.





Key Takeaways

An NDA acknowledges a confidential relationship between two or more parties and protects the information they share from disclosure to outsiders.The NDA is common before discussions between businesses about potential joint ventures.Employees are often required to sign NDAs to protect an employer's confidential business information.An NDA may also be referred to as a confidentiality agreement.There are two primary types of non-disclosure agreements: mutual and non-mutual non-disclosure agreements.












Investopedia / Tara Anand


   Understanding Non-Disclosure Agreements (NDAs)  

The NDA serves a purpose in a variety of situations. NDAs are generally required when two companies enter into discussions about doing business together but want to protect their own interests and the details of any potential deal. In this case, the language of the NDA forbids all involved from releasing information regarding any business processes or plans of the other party or parties.



Some companies also require that new employees sign an NDA If the employee has access to sensitive information about the company. For some companies, all employees will be required to sign the agreement; for others, only select departments or types of employees will be subject to the agreement.



NDAs may also be used before discussions between a company seeking funding and potential investors. In such cases, the NDA is meant to prevent competitors from obtaining their trade secrets or business plans. However, many investors will be reluctant to sign NDAs. Not only will this potentially prevent them from sourcing future deals with different companies, the agreement may be very difficult to enforce and prove wrong-doing. Instead of being burdened by a legal contract even after declining an investment opportunity, most investors will simply not sign the agreement.



In all of the above, the information that is being protected may include a marketing strategy and sales plan, potential customers, a manufacturing process, or proprietary software. If an NDA is breached by one party, the other party may seek court action to prevent any further disclosures and may sue the offending party for monetary damages.


   Types of Non-Disclosure Agreements  
  The Mutual Agreement  

Consider situations where two businesses are discussing the possibility of partnering together. As part of strategic discussions, each company may disclose information about its operations to better inform the other side of their capabilities. In such arrangements, both parties often agree to not disclose information as each side often receives sensitive information.


  The Non-Mutual Agreement  

This type of agreement usually applies to new employees if they have access to sensitive information about the company. In such cases, the employee is the only party signing the agreement that is prevented from sharing confidential information. lso called a unilaterial NDA, only one party is bound to confidentiality as they are the only party receiving sensitive information.


  The Disclosure Agreement  

Increasingly, individuals are asked to sign the opposite of a non-disclosure agreement. For example, a doctor may require a patient to sign an agreement that the patient's medical details may be shared with an insurer. This provides one party with the authority to share personal information and prevent them from being sued for doing so.






An NDA is a legally binding agreement; a violation can lead to legal penalties.


   Requirements for an NDA  

NDAs may be customized for any situation. In general, there are usually six major elements that are considered essential to any non-disclosure agreement:


  Participants to the Agreement  

Every non-disclosure agreement must specifically designate who every party involved entails. For the individual receiving the sensitive information, this may be a specific individual person, all employees of another specific company, or any representative of the company.



On the other hand, it's very important for a company to appropriately define itself in an NDA. For example, consider companies with complex legal structures. The company must appropriately determine which legal entity has ownership of the information; in many cases, a company may simply list any legal entity under a broad ownership umbrella.


  Definition of Confidential Information  

Often among the most difficult pieces to appropriately define, an NDA must state what information is considered to be confidential. A company can not simply assume that proprietary information will be understood by all, and it is the company's responsibility to identify what information must not be shared.



The difficulty of defining confidential information is the process of not disclosing such information itself within the NDA. For this reason, companies may broadly assign confidentiality to a large group. For example, the company may assess that any information disclosed from or regarding its research and development department may be confidential.


  Exclusions of Confidentiality  

In some situations, it may just be easiest to define what is not confidential. In these types of agreements, a company states that all information shared with an external party is to be confidential except specific items determined by that company. The intention of these types of agreements is to allow a company to catch any exceptions that would have otherwise slipped by.


  Appropriate Uses of Information  

Sometimes, a company may state that no information is confidential. However, it may simply limit how the external party may use the information that has been given to them. For example, a company may be fine disclosing operating processes to another party. However, that party cannot use the information to share with a competitor or replicate it for personal financial benefit.


  Time Period  

Especially relating to research and development, many proprietary bits of information simply expire or become less valuable over time. Consider the early days of Apple iOS; many components of the operating service were unknown, and the technology was widely unknown by the market. Today, much of that information is replicated by other companies or adapted into newer technologies. For this reason, what was once sensitive information may have lost its luster, and companies often define when the information is no longer confidential.


  Other/Miscellaneous Provisions  

As mentioned earlier, NDAs may be customized to serve any need. Different industries may have different requirements, and government agencies may have more stringent requirements on keeping sensitive information private.



In this area, an NDA may also detail applicable state law or laws that apply to the agreement and which party pays attorney fees in the case of a dispute. This may also define the course of action if the agreeing party should fail to comply with the terms.


   Information Protected With NDA  

There's endless opportunities for companies to protect themselves with NDA. In general, NDAs are used to protect information including but not limited to:



Customer information. This includes major customers, major customer contact information, and customer preferences. This may also include any direct communications with customers.
Financial information. This includes specific financial information relating to any customer or any financial information not required to be publicly disclosed. This types of information is often more related to cost accounting information as opposed to financial accounting information.
Intellectual property. This includes patents, copyrights, trade secrets, technologies, and anything a company uses as a competitive advantage.
Marketing information. This includes processes, billing policies, pricing strategies, and advertising techniques.
Operating information. This includes employee data, supplier information, any information related to payroll, or any aspect of internal costs required to operate the company not required to be publicly disclosed.


   Exclusions to NDAs  

NDAs can't contain specific pieces of information if the information is common knowledge or already in the public domain. This includes any information that may be widely known or considered public knowledge, though there may be a discrepancy around how this is defined. This also includes information that becomes publicly known at no fault to the recipient of the NDA.



Information that the receiver of the NDA already knows before receiving the agreement can not be included in the agreement. In addition, information that can be determined via independent research or rightfully obtained from a third party can not be defined as confidential as well.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Having an NDA  

The primary benefit of an NDA is that sensitive information regarding your company is kept secret. This can be anything from research and development (R&D), possible future patents, finances, negotiations, and more. Signing an NDA is a way to protect private information from becoming public.



NDA agreements are also clear. They specify what and what cannot be disclosed to avoid any confusion. NDAs can also be created at a low cost as they are really just a signed piece of paper. This is one of the most cost-effective ways to maintain private information.



NDAs also outline the consequences of disclosing prohibited information, which should prevent any leaks. Furthermore, NDAs are a good way to maintain comfort and trust in a relationship.






When entering into a non-disclosure agreement, make sure that confidential information and trade secrets are distinguished from each other. The latter usually has an indefinite period of confidentiality.



One of the primary disadvantages of an NDA agreement is that it starts a relationship off on the idea of mistrust. This can set the tone of the relationship and may not always result in a positive one. Employee NDAs can also prevent top-tier talent from joining your firm, knowing they'd be limited in discussing their job in the future.



Similarly, asking current employees to sign NDAs when working on special projects may sour their experience of working for the company as they will feel less trusted. NDAs can also result in potential lawsuits if breached, becoming a headache for everyone involved.





Pros

Information kept private
Clarity on what information can and cannot be shared
Low cost to create
Outlines consequences



Cons

Can create an atmosphere of mistrust
Risk of deterring top-tier talent from joining the firm
Can possibly sour the relationship with current employees





   Real-World Example of an NDA  

Apple is one of the most private companies in the world. The company keeps its technology and future products closely guarded until the company is ready to release them. It does this to deter competitors from stealing trade secrets and copying its products, as it has been a pioneer in technology for most of its life, and also to generate buzz as a marketing ploy.



In an article from CNBC from Jan. 2021, carmaker Hyundai confirmed in a statement that it was in talks with Apple regarding cars. This, of course, raised suspicion that Apple is possibly entering the car market or creating a product related to automobiles. Hyundai then released a follow-up statement that removed any mention of Apple.



Apple insists on secrecy with all of its relationships and makes any partner sign NDAs. Apple tells its partners that they cannot mention the name "Apple" in any manner, and Apple has threatened partners that have leaked information with monetarily hefty lawsuits.




What Happens If You Break a Non-Disclosure Agreement?
If you break an NDA, you will be susceptible to the consequences outlined in the contract. Breaking an NDA is not considered a crime, however, depending on what was violated, it can be a crime, for example, if the issue is theft of trade secrets. Usually, a person will be sued if they break an NDA, which may result in a monetary fine, termination of employment, or the return of an asset, depending on what was agreed upon.




How Long Does an NDA Last?
Every NDA is unique so each one will last a different amount of time. Common timeframes range between one year to 10 years, however, depending on the information that is to be kept private, an NDA may be indefinite. For an NDA to be enforceable in certain states, it must not be too open-ended or generic, or the courts will throw it out.




How Much Does an NDA Cost?
The cost of an NDA can vary depending on the complexity of the agreement. The cost of creating one typically ranges from $175 to $1,500.




What Is an NDA Template?
An NDA template is a template of a non-disclosure agreement that an individual or company can follow to create their own NDA. The template will have the general legal information and blanks that can be filled in to create a unique NDA between two or more parties that is applicable to their relationship.NDA templates are easily found online through an Internet search. There are many sites that offer NDA templates for use.




What Happens If You Violate an NDA?
If you have signed an NDA and violated it by disclosing confidential information illegally, you can be subject to lawsuits from the other party to the NDA as you have breached the contract. You may also be sued for intellectual property violations such as copyright infringement and breach of fiduciary duty. A court may levy financial damages and associated legal costs. If an NDA was a condition for employment, you may also be terminated from your job.


   The Bottom Line  

Non-disclosure agreements are low-cost, easy to create legally binding documents between two or more parties that keep private information confidential. They are used by organizations and individuals to protect their businesses or personal information and allow businesses to work together without the fear of private information entering the hands of competitors.



When drafting an NDA, it is important to be as detailed as possible, so all parties know what can and cannot be shared as well as the consequences of leaking information.
What Is a Non-Executive Director?  

The term non-executive director refers to a member of a company's board of directors. This board member isn't a company employee, which means they don't engage in the day-to-day management of the organization. Rather, most non-executive directors act as independent advisors and are involved in policymaking and planning exercises. Their responsibilities generally include monitoring executive directors and acting in the interest of corporate stakeholders.





Key Takeaways

A non-executive director is a member of a company's board of directors who is not part of the executive team.This director typically does not engage in the day-to-day management of the organization but is involved in policymaking and planning exercises.Their responsibilities include monitoring executive directors and acting in the interest of the company stakeholders.Most non-executive directors are compensated for their time through fees, equity, and cash payments. They differ from executive directors who are hired to oversee the operational activities of non-profits. 


   Understanding Non-Executive Directors  

As noted above, non-executive directors are not company employees. They are part of a company's board of directors. They are put in place to challenge the direction and performance of a company as well as its existing team.



Since non-executive directors do not hold C-level or managerial positions, they are thought to understand the interests of the company with greater objectivity than the executive directors, who may have an agency problem or conflict of interest between management and shareholders or other stakeholders.



Also known as external directors, independent directors, and outside directors), non-executive directors are often installed on a firm's board for public relations reasons. For instance, a particular non-executive director's community standing, a record of philanthropy, and prior experience could provide positive exposure and symbolic value for the firm.



Although they aren't employees, non-executive directors may still be compensated for their time. They can be paid through fees, cash, or equity compensation. The amount they are paid depends on the industry, the size and scope of the company, and the amount of time they spend doing work for the corporation. Because they come with a lot of experience and connections, many non-executive directors can be handsomely rewarded for their time.






Non-executive directors are equally liable for the success or failure of a business, as outlined by statutory requirements and tax laws.


   Special Considerations  

As a function of their leadership role, non-executive directors are required to embody certain key values. This includes using their past experience to mentor others during new ventures. They are also responsible for keeping the executive directors and the entire board accountable. This can be accomplished by helping with and managing a company's:



Strategy
Performance
Risk from an objective standpoint unrelated to the intimacy of operating activity



They also independently assess the company's performance to ensure the firm's stakeholders are considered before the needs and want of the management or board. A non-executive director with the right experience may also take a deep look into the financials of the company to verify fiscal responsibility, putting necessary controls in place if required.



All non-executive directors are required to commit a significant amount of their time to the oversight of the company. They are expected to disclose any other significant time commitments to the board and to inform the board of any changes to their schedules.



Non-executive directors must also provide value through leveraging their network of outside contacts that can benefit the company.






In some cases, non-executive directors may serve in the same role for two or more companies. When this happens, they must fully disclose their time commitments to both boards and juggle their responsibilities accordingly.


   Non-Executive Director vs. Executive Director  

It's easy to confuse a non-executive director with an executive director. But the two are inherently different. The former is not an employee. But an executive director acts as a leader and manages the day-to-day operations of the company they work for—usually a non-profit organization.



Along with managing company matters, some of the other responsibilities of an executive director include:



strategic planning
operating within and adhering to a budget
leading fundraising efforts and boosting membership
helping with public relations



Although the role and responsibilities of an executive director are similar to those of a chief executive officer (CEO), their salary is normally much lower. In some cases, many executive directors often work on a voluntary basis and are not compensated.


   Example of Non-Executive Director  

Here's an example to demonstrate the roles and responsibilities of non-executive directors.



Let's say the former CEO of a successful public technology company assumes the role of a non-executive director with a technology startup. As part of the board, they may be expected to:



Mentor or steward any new ventures the company takes and leverage their past experience in the sector
Assist executive directors with insight into hidden problems or external factors that may negatively affect the business and its profitability



In certain cases, non-executive directors are well-established in their fields. As such, they may have good connections in their industries. In the case of the former tech CEO, they would likely have warm relationships with venture capital firms that can help the startup achieve its goals of expansion and growth.




What Is the Role of a Non-Executive Director?
A non-executive director is an individual appointed to a company's board of directors. They are not employed by the company but act as independent advisors or directors to help the company achieve its goals. They are involved in policymaking and planning exercises and routinely monitor the company's executive directors to ensure they act in the interest of corporate stakeholders.




Are Non-Executive Directors Compensated?
Most non-executive directors are compensated for their time. Compensation can be through fees, equity, or cash. Their compensation can be high because of their experience and connections within their respective industries.




How Do Non-Executive Directors Differ From Executive Directors?
Non-executive directors are different from executive directors. Executive directors normally work for non-profits and assume the same responsibilities as a CEO, including managing the day-to-day operations, overseeing fundraising, boosting membership, and sticking to a budget. Unlike non-executive directors, many executive directors are not compensated for their time.


   The Bottom Line  

While non-executive directors are not a part of the executive team, they are members of the board of directors. Therefore, they are equally liable for the success or failure of the business. Their duties are very different from the day-to-day tasks mainly because they aren't actual employees. As such, they focus more on acting in the interest of shareholders and monitoring executive directors.
What Is a Non Exempt Employee?  

Non exempt employees are workers who are entitled to earn at least the federal minimum wage and qualify for overtime pay, which is calculated as one-and-a-half times their hourly rate for every hour they work above and beyond a standard 40-hour workweek. These regulations are created by the federal Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA).





Key Takeaways

Non exempt employee status is a federal designation that stipulates different rights an employee has.Non exempt employees are generally hourly rate employees who must be paid an overtime rate of 1.5 times their hourly rate.Exempt employees make at least $684 a week or $35,568 annually and are usually paid a salary.Non exempt employees typically make less than this amount but not always as the thresholds can differ by state.Non exempt employees’ rights are outlined in the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), which was amended starting Jan. 1, 2020.


   Understanding Non Exempt Employees  

“Non exempt” is a term referring to employees who earn less than $684 per week. Non exempt means that the employee is not exempt from the FLSA and must be paid overtime. The $684 weekly wage, resulting in an annual threshold of $35,568, was put into effect on Jan. 1, 2020. It replaced the old weekly wage of $455.



Furthermore, non exempt employees:



Are directly supervised by higher-ups who manage the workflowCannot be "bona fide executive, administrative, professional and outside sales employees,” according to the FLSA. Individuals who are teachers, academic administrative personnel, and computer workers are also considered to be exempt.



Non exempt employees are expected to dutifully carry out orders, without interjecting their own management decisions. For this reason, non exempt employees tend to dominate job sectors such as construction, manufacturing, maintenance, and other work that involves physical labor or carrying out repetitive tasks. Assembly line workers are also a key example of non exempt employees.






If you are unsure of your employment status, speak with your human resources representative. If you feel like your position is misclassified, consider seeking legal counsel.


   Non Exempt Employee Distinctions and Qualifications  

Non exempt employees are typically paid hourly wages, unlike exempt employees, who generally earn fixed salaries. However, while non exempt workers must receive overtime pay of one-and-a-half times their hourly wage, for all hours worked in excess of a 40-hour workweek, exempt employees are not legally entitled to collect overtime pay—even if their workweeks radically exceed 40 hours.



Under the FLSA, workers may be considered non exempt if they either earn less than the $684 weekly minimum or have limited scope for self-supervision. Take, for example, a maintenance worker who’s hired to work 40 hours per week at $18 an hour. With typical weekly earnings of $720, they easily pass the salary test to be designated as an exempt worker, since their weekly income exceeds the $684 threshold. 



But this worker is also directly supervised and therefore has a minimal opportunity for independent judgment. Hence, they are ultimately classified as a non exempt employee. If this staffer works 50 hours in a single week, they would earn their regular $18/hour rate for 40 hours, while earning 1.5 times their hourly rate at $27 for each of the 10 extra hours they clocked in.



Under the FLSA, non exempt employees must earn at least the federal minimum hourly wage of $7.25. However, many states and some municipalities impose higher minimum wages versus the federal floor. In these cases, the higher minimum wage overrides the federal rate.


   Fair Labor Standard Act Overview  

The Fair Labor and Standards Act created the Wage and Hour Division in 1938. This division oversees the administration and enforcement on labor laws that cover almost all private workers and government employees.



Though contested in 1941, the United States Supreme Court upheld the FLSA. Amendments to the original agreement have continually increase employment legislation including increasing the minimum wage from from $0.75/hour to $7.25/hour. The FLSA also covers overtime pay, allowable hours worked, maintenance of pay recordkeeping, and child labor laws.






The FLSA was last updated in September 2019 with the approved ruling going into effect on Jan. 1, 2020.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Non Exempt Status  

Whether it is preferable to be a non exempt employee versus an exempt one largely depends on an individual’s priority for work-life balance. The biggest benefit to being a non exempt employee is arguably the ability to enjoy additional compensation for working long hours, although this may be at a lower rate than salaried exempt employees.



On the other hand, an exempt worker may be able to occasionally duck out of work early and still collect a full paycheck. That being said, non exempt employees also tend to receive more protection under labor laws like the FLSA than exempt employees.



Because exempt employees are entitled to their full paycheck, they will receive a full salary every workweek, even if unforeseen circumstances such as a crisis require exempt employees to work remotely or under new arrangements.



On the flip side, non exempt employees in these circumstances are not entitled to pay if their physical presence is required for their jobs and they are unable to perform their duties. Either way, non exempt employees are required to log their hours. For example, non exempt employees folding clothes at a retail store will not get paid if the store is either undergoing remodeling or closed on a given week.



Meanwhile, retail store managers who are exempt might still get paid nonetheless for the remote work that they do in managing store operations.



Exempt workers are also more likely to receive benefits such as paid time off, healthcare coverage, and participation in retirement plans. However, both non exempt and exempt employees are equally eligible for government employment benefits. Case in point: Both categories of workers qualify for Social Security benefits once they retire, and both may be eligible to collect weekly unemployment payments should they lose their jobs. 




Non Exempt Employee Status (Pros/Cons for Worker)

Advantages

Receive overtime pay often valued at 1.5 times their usual pay rate
May find it easier to find jobs as positions are often lower-skilled or more entry-level
Often receive greater protection under FLSA laws
Still quality for government benefits (just like exempt employees)



Disadvantages

Pay is often less as experience and knowledge is typically not as necessary compared to exempt employees
May receive less than ideal career advancement opportunities due to the nature of the role.
Not entitled to pay if their physical presence is required but prevented





   Examples of Non-Exempt Jobs  

Prior to accepting a role, ensure whether the position is exempt or non exempt as positions may be classified differently depending on the nature of the role or company. In many respects, it may be easier to identify exempt positions and determine what positions do not quality for exemption status. Examples include but are not limited to:



Executive positions must manage the enterprise or a department of it, have two full-time workers under their management, and have the power to make personnel changes.
Administrative positions must be engaged in office work related to the operations of a company to be exempt.
Professionals must meet payment thresholds and engaged in intellectual work that may warrant advanced knowledge in a field of science or learning.
Computer employees must meet income thresholds and be employed as a programmer, engineer, or similar role that oversees development or analysis for computer systems or programs.



If an employee does not meet any of the criteria above (noting that not all situations are listed), the employee must be treated as non exempt.




What Is the Difference Between an Exempt Employee and a Non Exempt Employee?
The difference between an exempt employee and a non exempt employee is that non exempt employees are entitled to overtime pay. Exempt employees, on the other hand, do not qualify for overtime pay.




Is It Better to Be an Exempt Employee or a Non Exempt Employee?
Whether it is better to be an exempt employee or a non exempt employee depends on a variety of factors, such as the type of job and a person's background, education, and personal situation. Exempt employees are generally paid higher and receive benefits at their jobs, such as retirement plans and health insurance; however, they are not paid for overtime and, therefore, may not be compensated appropriately if their job requires long hours.




Can an Employee Be Salaried and Non Exempt?
Yes, an employee can be "salaried, non exempt," meaning that they receive a weekly salary (or however the employer chooses to pay) and qualify for overtime pay for any hours worked over 40 hours a week. Non exempt employees do not have to be paid hourly; they can be paid in a variety of manners, via commission, salary, hourly, etc, as long as the compensation meets minimum wage requirements.


   The Bottom Line  

The Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) determines various labor statuses. One of those statuses—non exempt employees—are not exempt from overtime provisions and are entitled to overtime pay for hours worked beyond the standard 40 hours in a workweek. These non exempt employees may be paid salary, hourly, or on another basis.
What Is Nonfarm Payroll?  

The nonfarm payroll measures the number of workers in the U.S. except those in farming, private households, proprietors, non-profit employees, and active military.



The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) surveys private and government entities throughout the U.S. to obtain information about their payrolls. The nonfarm payroll numbers are reported monthly to the public through the closely followed Employment Situation summary.





Key Takeaways

Nonfarm payrolls include 80% of the number of workers in the U.S. and exclude farm workers and workers in several other job classifications.Active duty military members are excluded from the nonfarm payroll data.Data on nonfarm payrolls is collected by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) and included in the monthly Employment Situation report.The Employment Situation report includes two surveys, the Household Survey, and the Establishment Survey.


   Understanding Nonfarm Payroll  

According to the BLS, nonfarm employee classifications account for approximately 80% of U.S. business sectors contributing to gross domestic product (GDP). Besides farm workers, other categories excluded from the nonfarm payroll numbers include:



Civilian government employees are counted except for government-appointed officials, and employees of the Central Intelligence Agency, National Security Agency, the National Imagery and Mapping Agency, and the Defense Intelligence AgencyActive military service membersPrivate household employees and domestic household workersUnincorporated business owners such as sole proprietors and self-employed workers that operate without registered business incorporationNon-profit employees


   Employment Situation Summary  

The Employment Situation summary is a closely followed monthly report released by the BLS on the first Friday of the month following data collection. The report is created from two comprehensive surveys: the Household Survey and the Establishment Survey.



The Household Survey reports the unemployment rate and details employment demographics. The Establishment Survey segment headlines the number of new nonfarm payroll jobs added to the national economy.






  Household Survey  

Key components of the Household Survey include:



The overall unemployment rate
Unemployment rates by gender
Unemployment rates by race
Unemployment rates by education
Unemployment rates by age
Reasons for unemployment
Employment data by types of alternative employment
The participation rate





Participation Rate

The labor force participation rate estimates an economy’s active workforce by the number of people ages 16 and older who are employed or actively seeking employment, divided by the total non-institutionalized, civilian working-age population.


  Establishment Survey  

The Establishment Survey portion of the “Employment Situation” report provides details on nonfarm payroll additions and is referred to as the nonfarm payrolls report. Key components of the Establishment Survey include:



The number of total nonfarm payrolls added by an entity for the reporting month
Nonfarm payroll additions by industry category, such as durable goods, non-durable goods, services, and government
Details on hours worked
Details on average hourly earnings


   Nonfarm Payroll Data and Economic Analysis  

The nonfarm payroll additions and the unemployment rate are headlines of the Employment Situation report, but economists and policymakers use all available data to assess the state of the economy and forecast future levels of economic activity.



The report contains insights into the labor force that directly impact the economy, the stock market, the value of the U.S. dollar, the value of Treasuries, and the price of gold. The Household Survey data reveals trends in the unemployment rate and participation rate that may be associated with demographics. The Establishment Survey report offers valuable information on job changes within sectors or industries.



The Employment Situation report provides a snapshot of the effects of significant events that impact the economy. The COVID-19 pandemic stifled economic activity and erased nearly 20 million jobs within weeks in March 2020. Reports show that although most sectors and the economy as a whole have recovered as of January 2023, the leisure and hospitality sector and the public sector both lag in job recovery.




How Do Nonfarm Payrolls Impact the Financial Market?
The report contains data and statistics regarding the employment situation in the United States, which can identify trends in economic growth, inflation, housing starts, and gross domestic product, all of which affect the movement of financial markets.




When Are Nonfarm Payrolls Released?
The data is commonly released on the first Friday of each month at 8:30 AM ET and reflects the previous month's data.




Is Nonfarm Payrolls a Leading or Lagging Indicator?
The nonfarm payroll report is not a leading indicator but provides a snapshot of incidents that affect the overall economy.


   The Bottom Line  

Nonfarm payroll refers to the number of jobs in the private sector and government agencies. It excludes farm workers, private household employees, proprietors, non-profit employees, and actively serving military. The nonfarm payroll numbers are reported monthly to the public through the closely followed Employment Situation report which details changes in unemployment by sector and demographic and new jobs added within the economy.
What Are Non-GAAP Earnings?  

Non-GAAP earnings are an alternative accounting method used to measure the earnings of a company. Many companies report non-GAAP earnings in addition to their earnings based on Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). These pro forma figures, which exclude "one-time" transactions, can sometimes provide a more accurate measure of a company’s financial performance from direct business operations.



However, investors need to be wary of a company's potential for misleading reporting which excludes items that have a negative effect on GAAP earnings, quarter after quarter.


   Understanding Non-GAAP Earnings  

To understand non-GAAP earnings, it's important to understand GAAP earnings. GAAP earnings are a common set of standards accepted and used by companies and their accounting departments. GAAP earnings are used to standardize the financial reporting of publicly traded companies.



The justification for reporting non-GAAP earnings is that large one-off costs, such as asset write-downs or organizational restructuring, should not be considered normal operational costs because they distort the true financial performance of a company. Therefore, some companies provide an adjusted earnings number that excludes these nonrecurring items. Commonly used non-GAAP financial measures include earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT), earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA), adjusted revenues, free cash flows, core earnings, and funds from operations.



When used appropriately, these non-GAAP financial measures can help companies provide a more meaningful picture of the company's performance and value. Presenting only the financial results of the core business activities can be useful. However, there are no regulations around non-GAAP earnings per share (EPS). Investors have no way of knowing whether Non-GAAP EPS figures are genuine or manipulated in an attempt to deceive the automated news-watching trading algorithms into taking action as the results are published in headlines.





Key Takeaways

Non-GAAP earnings are an alternative accounting method used to measure the earnings of a company.Non-GAAP earnings are pro forma figures, which exclude "one-time" transactions, such as an organizational restructuring.Non-GAAP earnings can sometimes provide a more accurate measure of a company’s financial performance from direct business operations.Investors should be wary of possible misleading reporting by companies who exclude items that have a negative effect on GAAP earnings.


   Criticism of Non-GAAP Earnings  

A company's quality of earnings is important, so investors need to consider the validity of non-GAAP exclusions on a case-by-case basis to avoid being misled. Studies have shown that adjusted figures are more likely to exclude losses than gains. GAAP earnings now significantly trail non-GAAP earnings, as companies become addicted to “one-time” adjustments, which become meaningless when they happen every quarter. Merck, for example, turned a loss of -$0.02 per share under GAAP into an “adjusted” profit of $1.11 a share in the fourth quarter of 2017—a 5,650% difference.







So investors should be careful not to lose sight of GAAP earnings. Standardized accounting rules are in place for consistency and comparability. Consistent revenue recognition makes reported earnings more reliable for historical comparison, and it allows investors to compare the financial results of one company to that of its industry peers and competitors. That is why the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requires publicly traded companies to use GAAP accounting in the first place.





Important

U.S. companies are under increasing pressure from the SEC to disclose GAAP earnings upfront in their earnings reports, before pointing at non-GAAP earnings.



The SEC has begun taking enforcement actions against improper practices where companies provide greater prominence to non-GAAP figures than GAAP figures. Technology companies are among the most frequent abusers of non-GAAP EPS because they use a significant amount of stock compensation and have large asset impairments and R&D costs.
What Is a Non-Interest-Bearing Current Liability (NIBCL)?  

A non-interest-bearing current liability (NIBCL) is a category of expenses that an individual or a company must pay off within the calendar year but will not owe interest on. Taxes that do not include late penalties, as well as accounts payable, within the credit terms timelines or without late fees, are examples of NIBCLs that can be found on a company's balance sheet.



NIBCLs are listed on a balance sheet under the liabilities column, in the current liabilities section.


   Understanding NIBCL  

Non-interest-bearing current liabilities are relatively straightforward. Interest-bearing currentliabilities, such as working capital loans or the current portion due on long-term debt, can be more complicated.





Key Takeaways

A non-interest bearing current liability is an item in a corporate balance sheet that reflects short-term expenses and debts that are not accruing interest.Corporate balance sheets distinguish between obligations to pay debts with interest and obligations to pay ordinary expenses such as account receivables.In either case, these are obligations due in one year or less.



In addition to non-interest-bearing current liabilities, a balance sheet may list non-interest-bearing non-current liabilities. This indicates a debt that must be paid more than a year in the future but is not accruing interest.






Non-interest-bearing liabilities that are not due for payment until a later period are listed separately.



A large number of non-interest-bearing non-current liabilities in a balance sheet is considered to be a warning sign that a company is piling up expenses that it may have trouble paying down the road.


  NIBCL for Regular People  

Individuals, as well as corporations, have non-interest-bearing current liabilities.



If a person made up a balance sheet that looked like a corporate financial document, costs such as rent and utilities would go under NIBCL. A mortgage or car payment, however, would be an interest-bearing liability.



Non-interest-bearing consumer debt is all too rare, but a consumer with a good introductory deal on a credit card would be able to record the current balance on the card as a NIBCL.



Examples of a consumer's non-interest bearing non-current liability are someone who leased a new car or furnished a home using one of those no-payment-for-30 to 180-days deals might log the future payments as non-interest-bearing non-current liabilities.



Another example that is trending now is a fintech product called Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) that gives consumers offers to buy products and pay them through installments with no interest charged if in line with the terms.


  One Oddity in NIBCL  

A bond or a note may be an NIBCL if it bears no interest. That is, some investments in debt pay no interest but are sold at a discount to their face values. The investor's profit comes with the return of the original investment at its full face value when the note reaches maturity.


   Example of NIBCL  

The Kroger Co. owns a wide range of familiar store names such as Dillons, Pay-Less Supermarkets, and Ralph's as well as the Kroger stores. It listed the following under Current Liabilities on its balance sheet:



Current portion of long-term debt including obligations under capital leases and financing obligationsTrade accounts payableAccrued salaries and wagesDeferred income taxesOther non-interest-bearing liabilities, which are typically not broken down in the Notes to the Financial Statements.
What is Non-Interest Income?  

Non-interest income is bank and creditor income derived primarily from fees including deposit and transaction fees, insufficient funds (NSF) fees, annual fees, monthly account service charges, inactivity fees, check and deposit slip fees, and so on. Credit card issuers also charge penalty fees, including late fees and over-the-limit fees. Institutions charge fees that generate non-interest income as a way of increasing revenue and ensuring liquidity in the event of increased default rates.


   Understanding Non-Interest Income  

Interest is the cost of borrowing money and is one form of income that banks collect. For financial institutions, such as banks, interest represents operating income, which is income from normal business operations. The core purpose of a bank's business model is to loan money, so its primary source of income is interest and its primary asset is cash. That said, banks rely heavily on non-interest income when interest rates are low. When interest rates are high, sources of non-interest income can be lowered to entice customers to choose one bank over another.


   Strategic Importance of Non-Interest Income  

Most businesses that are not banks rely entirely on non-interest income. Financial institutions and banks, on the other hand, make most of their money from loaning and re-loaning money. As a result, these firms view non-interest income as a strategic line-item on the income statement. This is especially true when interest rates are low since banks profit from the spread between the cost of funds and the average lending rate. Low interest rates make it difficult for banks to make a profit, so they often rely on non-interest income to maintain profit margins.



From a client perspective, non-interest income sources like fees and penalties are annoying at best. For some people, these fees can quickly add up and do real financial harm to a budget. From an investor's perspective, however, a bank's ability to dial up non-interest income to protect profit margins or even increase margins in good times is a positive. The more drivers of income a financial institution has, the better it is able to weather adverse economic conditions.


   Drivers of Non-Interest Income  

The degree to which banks rely on non-interest fees to make a profit is a function of the economic environment. Market interest rates are driven by benchmark rates such as the Federal funds rate. The Fed funds rate, or the rate at which banks lend money to one another, is determined by the rate at which the Federal Reserve pays banks interest. This rate is referred to as the interest rate on excess reserves (IOER). As the IOER increases, banks can make a higher profit from interest income. At a certain point, it becomes more advantageous for a bank to use the reduction of fees and charges as a marketing tool to lure new deposits, rather than as a way to increase profits. Once one bank makes this move, the market competition on fees begins anew.
What Is a Non-Issuer Transaction?  

A non-issuer transaction is a transaction involving a security that is not directly or indirectly executed for the benefit of the issuing company. Most deals that occur on the secondary market, such as stock exchanges, involve non-issuer transactions; secondary offerings; or share buybacks that will involve the issuer.





Key Takeaways

A non-issuer transaction involves the purchase or sale of securities that does not involve the issuer of those securities.An isolated non-issuer transaction involves an ad-hoc exchange of securities between two private parties, often on an over-the-counter (OTC) basis, exempting it from registration.Non-issuer transactions involving outstanding securities refer largely to trades executed among counterparties on secondary markets that do not involve the issuer.


   Understanding Non-Issuer Transactions  

Isolated non-issuer transactions are exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). For instance, if Joe sells 100 shares of XYZ stock to his brother, this transaction would be exempt from registration requirements.



However, once Joe sells those 100 shares to his brother, he officially becomes what's known as a non-issuer broker-dealer. Non-issuers can be described as a person or company that doesn't issue securities or have plans to do so and a broker-dealer is a person or firm that buys and sells securities for its own account or on behalf of its customers.



Regulations are much lighter on non-issuer broker-dealers, although these figures are also very limited in what they can do while legally maintaining this status.


   Auditors and Non-Issuer Broker-Dealers   

Auditors of a non-issuer broker-dealer must be registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB)​​​​​​ as of the date of the auditor’s report. Auditors are encouraged to begin the registration process with the PCAOB as soon as practicable. Non-public broker-dealers are also advised to contact the Commission’s Division of Trading and Markets to discuss individual circumstances if necessary.



Auditors of non-issuer broker-dealers must continue to comply with Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(f)(3), which states that the auditor “shall be independent in accordance with the provisions of §210.2-01(b) and (c) of this chapter.” However, auditors of non-issuer broker-dealers are not subject to the partner rotation requirements or compensation requirements of §210.201(c).


   Types of Exempted Non-Issuer Transactions  

Isolated Non-Issuer Transactions: States define what "isolated" means on a local basis but it is specifically non-recurring. For example, an individual brought stock certificates for PDQ stock to Idaho when he moved from Tennessee. The stock is not registered in Idaho, but he may sell it to his neighbor and the transaction is exempt because the individual is not the issuer and the transaction is "isolated".
Non-Issuer Transactions in Outstanding Securities: This is often called the "manual exemption". If the security being traded is from an issuer that is currently up-to-date on all financial reporting with the SEC, is not experiencing financial difficulties, and is not a "blind pool", or "shell corporation", the transaction is exempt from registration. The securities involved in the transaction must have been in the hands of the public for at least 90 days.
What Are Non-Marginable Securities?  

Non-marginable securities are not allowed to be purchased on margin at a particular brokerage, or financial institution. They must be fully funded by the investor's cash.



Most brokerage firms have internal lists of non-marginable securities, which investors can find online or by contacting their institutions. These lists will be adjusted over time to reflect changes in share prices and volatility. Holdings in non-marginable securities do not add to the investor's margin buying power.





Key Takeaways

Non-marginable securities are not allowed to be purchased on margin at a particular brokerage, or financial institution, and must be fully funded by the investor's cash.Non-marginable securities are put in place to mitigate risks and control costs on stocks that are volatile.Non-marginable securities include recent IPOs, penny stocks, and over-the-counter bulletin board stocks.The downside of marginable securities is that they can lead to margin calls, which in turn cause the liquidation of securities and financial loss.Securities that may be posted in a margin account as collateral are known as marginable securities.


   How Non-Marginable Securities Work  

The main goal of keeping some securities away from margin investors is to mitigate risk and control the administrative costs of excessive margin calls on what are usually volatile stocks with uncertain cash flows.



Examples of non-marginable securities include recent initial public offerings (IPOs). When a news outlet reports a company is making the first-ever offer to sell shares to the public, this is known as an IPO. Over-the-counter bulletin board stocks and penny stocks, which are stocks that generally trade per share for under $5 and are owned by small companies, are also non-marginable securities by decree of the Federal Reserve Board. 



Other securities, such as stocks with share prices that are under $5, or that are extremely volatile, may be excluded at the discretion of the broker. Some low-volume securities also aren’t marginable.


   Marginable vs. Non-Marginable Securities  

Marginable securities are those that can be posted as collateral in a margin account. The balance of these securities can count toward the initial margin and maintenance margin requirements. Margin securities allow you to borrow against them. However, non-marginable securities can’t be pledged as collateral in a brokerage margin account. 



The downside of marginable securities is that they can lead to the aforementioned margin calls, which can include the unexpected liquidation of securities. Marginable securities can amplify returns, but they may also exacerbate losses. 


   Example of Non-Marginable Securities  

Charles Schwab sets its margin requirements so that certain securities are not marginable. Schwab allows most stocks and ETFs as marginable securities, as long as the share price is $3 or higher. 



As well, mutual funds are allowed if they’re owned for more than 30 days, as are investment-grade corporate, treasury, municipal, and government bonds. IPOs above a certain volatility level are not marginable. However, IPOs are marginable if they are purchased one business day after the IPO on the secondary exchange.


   Special Considerations  

Non-marginable securities have a 100% margin requirement. But certain stocks have special margin requirements, however. The stocks with special margin requirements are marginable, but they have a higher margin requirement than typical stocks and the minimum required by brokers. 



For example, Charles Schwab typically requires an initial maintenance margin of 30%. For certain volatile stocks, the initial maintenance margin is higher. These stocks include AMC Entertainment (AMC) which has a special maintenance margin of 100% on long positions and 200% on short positions. Gamestop (GME), meanwhile, has a unique maintenance margin of 100% on long positions, and 300% on short positions



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is a Non-Marketable Security?  

A non-marketable security is an asset that is difficult to buy or sell due to the fact that they are not traded on any major secondary market exchanges. Such securities, often forms of debt or fixed-income securities, are usually only bought and sold through private transactions or in an over-the-counter (OTC) market.



For the holder of a non-marketable security, finding a buyer can be difficult, and some non-marketable securities cannot be resold at all because government regulations prohibit any resale. A non-marketable security may be contrasted with a marketable security, which is listed on an exchange and easily traded.





Key Takeaways

Non-marketable securities are assets that cannot easily be liquidated to cash in a timely or cost-effective manner.Often debt securities, these assets cannot typically be bought or sold on a public exchanges and must trade OTC.Examples include savings bonds, shares in limited partnerships or privately-held companies, and some complex derivatives products.In contrast, marketable securities include common stock, Treasury bills, and money market instruments, among others.


   Non-Marketable Securities Explained  

Most non-marketable securities are government-issued debt instruments. Common examples of non-marketable securities include U.S. savings bonds, rural electrification certificates, private shares, state and local government securities, and federal government series bonds. Non-marketable securities that are prohibited from being resold, such as U.S. savings bonds, are required to be held until maturity.



Limited partnership investments are an example of a private security that may be non-marketable due to the difficulty of reselling. Another example is private shares held by an owner of a company that is not publicly traded. The fact that these shares are non-marketable is not usually an obstacle for the owner unless they wish to relinquish ownership or control of the company.



The U.S. government issues both marketable and non-marketable debt securities. The most widely held marketable securities include U.S. Treasury bills and Treasury bonds, both of which are freely traded in the U.S. bond market.


   The Rationale Behind Non-Marketable Securities  

The primary reason that some debt securities are purposely issued as non-marketable is a perceived need to ensure stable ownership of the money the security represents. Non-marketable securities are frequently sold at a discount to their face value and redeemable for face value at maturity. The gain for an investor is then the difference between the purchase price of the security and its face value amount.


   Difference Between Marketable and Non-Marketable Securities  

Marketable securities are those that are freely traded in a secondary market. The principal difference between marketable and non-marketable securities revolves around the concepts of market value and intrinsic, or book, value. Marketable securities have both a marketable value, one which is subject to potentially volatile fluctuation in accordance with the changing levels of demand for the security in the trading marketplace. Thus, marketable securities generally carry a higher level of risk than non-marketable securities.



Non-marketable securities, however, are not subject to the demand changes in a secondary trading market and, therefore, have only their intrinsic value, but no market value. The intrinsic value of a non-marketable security, depending on the structure of the security, can be considered as either its face value, the amount payable upon maturity or its purchase price plus interest.
What Are Non-Member Banks?  

Non-member banks are banks that are not members of the U.S. Federal Reserve System. As with member banks, non-member banks are subject to reserve requirements, which they have to maintain by placing a percentage of their deposits at a Federal Reserve Bank. Although non-member banks are not required to purchase stock in their district Federal Reserve banks, they still have access to services offered by the Federal Reserve, such as its discount window on the same terms as member banks.





Key Takeaways

Non-member banks refer to banks that are not members of the U.S. Federal Reserve System, typically state-chartered banks.State-chartered banks may ultimately decide to refrain from membership under the Fed because regulation can be less onerous based on state laws and under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), which oversees non-member banks.Other examples of non-member banks include the Bank of the West and GMC Bank.


   How Non-Member Banks Work  

Non-member banks can only be state-chartered since all nationally-chartered banks necessarily have to be members of the Federal Reserve System. One reason that state-chartered banks may decide to refrain from membership is that regulation can be less onerous, some believe, under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), which oversees non-member banks rather than the Federal Reserve Banks (member banks report to regional Federal Reserve banks).



Depending on where they are located, non-member banks are only subject to state laws, rather than federal laws, so they may opt for less-regulated operations in a state like North Dakota. In addition, they are able to keep at least a part of their reserves in interest-bearing securities. Non-member banks, like members, still receive services from the Federal Reserve System, including check clearing, electronic funds movements, and automated clearing house payments.



Becoming a member is only a matter of submitting an application, fulfilling the requirements, and going through a waiting period. Some non-member banks deliberate on this decision carefully and engage in the process in measured steps if they believe that being a member is ultimately more beneficial than remaining a non-member. There are also examples of, in extreme cases, non-member banks deciding to change their status to take advantage of certain benefits of becoming part of the U.S. Federal Reserve System.


   Examples of Non-Member Banks  

In 2008, some non-member banks fled into the arms of the Federal Reserve System for protection. Such was the case with investment bank Goldman Sachs, which faced economic uncertainty during the financial crisis in 2008. The investment bank humbly sought and received member status to access the Fed's discount window and begin taking government-guaranteed deposits from the public. In a press release heralding its new status, the bank spun it this way: "We believe that Goldman Sachs, under Federal Reserve supervision, will be regarded as an even more secure institution with an exceptionally clean balance sheet and a greater diversity of funding sources."



Other examples of non-member banks include the Bank of the West, GMAC Bank, and the Bank of North Dakota.
What Is Non-Negotiable?  

Non-negotiable means not open for debate or modification. It can refer to the price of a good or security that is firmly established and cannot be adjusted, or a part of a contract or deal that is considered a requirement by one or both involved parties. Additionally, the term can relate to a good or security whose ownership is not easily transferable from one party to another.





Key Takeaways

Non-negotiable describes the price of a good or security that cannot be adjusted, or a part of a contract that is considered a requirement by one or both involved parties. An item can be deemed non-negotiable if one party involved in a transaction is not willing to make any changes to a condition that has been set in place.Additionally, the term can relate to a good or security whose ownership is not easily transferable from one party to another, such as government savings bonds.


   Understanding Non-Negotiable  

An item can be considered non-negotiable if one party involved in a transaction is not willing to make any changes to a condition that has been set in place. This could relate to the price for a particular good or service, an element within a contract, or a financial product that cannot be exchanged or transferred to a new owner, even through the use of secondary markets. Crossed checks from Mexico and other countries are frequently non-negotiable.



Negotiable is the opposite of non-negotiable. When an asking price or contract is referred to as negotiable, it means that it is not set in stone and can be adjusted depending on the circumstance. Likewise, instruments of this nature can be exchanged or transferred with ease.



For example, a check would qualify as a negotiable instrument as it can be presented to a financial institution in exchange for actual currency. Funds in physical currency, such as dollar bills, are also considered to be negotiable instruments because they can be easily exchanged between parties. Most securities are negotiable, too, provided that all proper legal documentation is included.


   Examples of Non-Negotiable  
  Non-Negotiable Prices  

When an asking price is described as non-negotiable, it means it is not possible to haggle over it. When one party sets a non-negotiable price, the option to attempt to negotiate has been effectively removed by the first party’s unwillingness to participate in such a conversation.



For example, a homeowner may be unwilling to sell their property unless a buyer offers at least $250,000. If the individual deems the asking price to be non-negotiable, a bid of $245,000 will be rejected.





Important

A big company such as Walmart Inc. is less likely to make price concessions than a much smaller retailer because it often can easily find other customers willing to pay what it wants.



In regards to securities, if an asset is referred to as a registered security, its price cannot be changed. This can apply to savings bonds as they have a specified face value, or par, and cannot be negotiated to any other value.


  Non-Negotiable Contract Elements  

A contract may contain certain non-negotiable stipulations. For example, a job offer might offer scope to negotiate on salary, but be rigid about other terms, such as the number of days that an employee can take for annual leave.



Moreover, in the cases of leases on rental properties, the amount due as payment may be considered non-negotiable as it is often a fixed price that must be provided by the tenant to the property owner.


  Non-Negotiable Financial Products  

Non-negotiable securities and products are those that cannot be transferred from one party to the next. An example of a non-negotiable instrument, also referred to as a non-marketable instrument, would be a government savings bond. They can only be redeemed by the owner of the bond and are not allowed to be sold to other parties.



Because they cannot be sold on, these products, also known as registered securities or non-transferable securities, are described as illiquid.
What Is a Non-Objecting Beneficial Owner (NOBO)?  

A non-objecting beneficial owner (NOBO) is a beneficial owner of a company who gives permission to a financial intermediary to release their name and address to the companies or issuers in which they have bought securities. This allows companies to contact the beneficial owner directly with various communication related to the business. However, the SEC still maintains that beneficial owners should be contacted via an intermediary, such as a broker, for proxy materials.





Key Takeaways

Non-Objecting Beneficial Owners (NOBOs) elect to release their name and address to companies in which they have bought securities.An objecting beneficial owner (OBO) chooses not to release their information to companies.The information released allows for companies to send information, such as voting proxies, financial reports, and other materials pertaining to the business.The SEC has outlined a variety of rules in how companies can interact with objecting and non-objecting beneficial owners.Certain parties, such as companies, are interested in abolishing the distinction between beneficial owners, where banks, brokers, and OBOs wish to keep the distinction.


   Understanding a Non-Objecting Beneficial Owner (NOBO)  

A beneficial owner of a security is someone who has a security held by a financial intermediary. This tends to be the individual's broker, or, in some cases, it may be another financial intermediary the person is associated with. An objecting beneficial owner (OBO) instructs the financial intermediary who holds the securities to not provide the owner's name and personal information to the company that issued the securities. A non-objecting beneficial owner (NOBO) agrees to allow their personal information to be released to the company. When you set up your account with a broker, you will often have the choice as to whether or not you would like your information released to the companies in which you purchase shares.



Companies and issuers request this personal information so that they can contact the shareholder regarding important shareholder communications (such as proxies, circulars for rights offerings, and annual/quarterly reports). A non-objecting beneficial owner will receive these items since they have allowed their information to be released.



The securities and exchange commission (SEC) outlines the definition of both types of beneficial owners and lays out specific rules on how companies can interact with each type of beneficial owner. The SEC requires that a broker be the intermediary between a company and a NOBO for any proxy information. Other information may be sent to a NOBO directly.


   Arguments For and Against a Non-Objecting Beneficial Owner (NOBO)  

Different financial players in the industry have varying reasons to support or object against the SEC rules of objecting and non-objecting beneficial owner status. Companies argue against having a distinction and believe that they should be allowed to freely send communication directly to shareholders. They believe that having direct communication would reduce costs and allow for increased participation in the company by the shareholders.



Banks and brokers, on the other hand, prefer to maintain the distinction between beneficial owners. They are interested in keeping their customer lists private, maintaining the fee income generated through forwarding proxy materials, and protecting stock loan revenue.



Objecting beneficial owners (OBOs), of course, wish to maintain the distinction as well. OBOs would like to keep their holdings and financial strategies private and to avoid undesired solicitations and other spam.
What Is a Non-Operating Asset?  

A non-operating asset is a class of assets that are not essential to the ongoing operations of a business but may still generate income or provide a return on investment (ROI). These assets are listed on a company's balance sheet along with its operating assets, and they may or may not be broken out separately.





Key Takeaways

Non-operating assets are assets that are not considered to be part of a company's core operations.A company's non-operating assets may be unused land, spare equipment, investment securities, and so on.Income from non-operating assets contributes to the non-operating income of a company. These assets and any income from them are usually omitted from the financial analysis of a company's core business.Non-operating assets can function as a way to diversify risk and revenues.


   Understanding a Non-Operating Asset  

Non-operating assets are also known as redundant assets because they do not support operations and are therefore considered to be redundant and expendable if a company needs to cash them in. That said, companies hold non-operating assets for several reasons. For example, a company may own a parcel of land assessed at $300,000 in value but has no plans to build on the property for at least five years. Until it is used, the land is considered to be a non-operating asset.



Common non-operating assets include unallocated cash and marketable securities, loans receivable, idle equipment, and vacant land. The correct identification of non-operating assets is an important step in the valuation process because these can often be overlooked by analysts and investors. Furthermore, analysis based on a cash flows approach will not capture the value of non-operating assets. These assets have to be valued separately and added to the operating value of the business.



Non-operating assets may be assets related to a closed portion of the business. In this case, the company can choose to hold onto the assets with the intention of selling or using them in the future. For example, imagine a business owns several retail locations and it closes one of its locations. The business operations in that building have ceased and the company still owns the building. Because the building is no longer instrumental in the business's day-to-day operations, it is labeled as non-operating. However, the building still holds value that could be tapped into in the future, so it is also considered an asset.


   Using Non-Operating Assets to Diversify Risk  

In other cases, non-operating assets can be used to diversify operational risks. For example, a business may own some real estate or patents simply as cash investments. Although these assets are not tied to the business's operations, the company may still earn some revenue from them. If the business loses money through its operations, these non-operating assets can provide diversification and act as a financial backup.


   Non-Operating Assets and Non-Operating Income  

Non-operating income refers to revenue an organization earns that is not connected to its core operations. In some cases, non-operating income comes from non-operating assets. To continue with the above example, if the business rents out its empty retail location, the money it collects in rent is non-operating income.



Similarly, if a company has investments that are not related to its operations, the returns it earns on those investments are classified as non-operating income. In recent years, large corporations realized the risk of being disrupted by rising startups, so they created corporate venture capital arms that invest in new ideas that are not necessarily related to their operations where they own assets and generate income as a diversification tool.



However, non-operating income does not always come from non-operating assets. It may also include gains from foreign exchanges or other forms of peripheral income such as a one-time gain on investment securities. Non-operating assets may also generate liabilities for the company holding them. For example, a company holding onto unused land will have liability exposure in the form of taxes due, interest owed, or lawsuits generated by accidents on that property.


   Non-Operating Assets and Stock Valuation  

Non-operating assets are usually treated separately from operating assets when evaluating a company or its stock. The value of non-operating assets does count toward the total worth of the company, however, their value is excluded from financial models that estimate the future growth or profit earning potential of the core business segments. Although non-operating assets may bring revenue into a company, they are not used to generate core revenue.
What Is a Non-Operating Expense?  

A non-operating expense is a business expense unrelated to core operations. The most common types of non-operating expenses are interest charges and losses on the disposition of assets. Accountants sometimes remove non-operating expenses and non-operating revenues to examine the performance of the core business, excluding the effects of financing and other items.



Non-operating expenses can be contrasted with operating expenses, which relate to the day-to-day functioning of a business.





Key Takeaways

A non-operating expense is incurred when a cost doesn't directly relate to a firm's primary or core business.Non-operating expenses are deducted from operating profits and accounted for at the bottom of a company's income statement.Examples of non-operating expenses include interest payments, write-downs, or costs from currency exchanges.


   Understanding Non-Operating Expense  

Non-operating expense, like its name implies, is an accounting term used to describe expenses that occur outside of a company's day-to-day activities. These types of expenses include monthly charges like interest payments on debt and can also include one-time or unusual costs. For example, a company may categorize any costs incurred from restructuring, reorganizing, costs from currency exchange, or charges on obsolete inventory as non-operating expenses.



Non-operating expenses are recorded at the bottom of a company's income statement. The purpose is to allow financial statement users to assess the direct business activities that appear at the top of the income statement alone. Generating profit from core operations is critical for a company.


   Special Considerations  

When looking at a company's income statement from top to bottom, operating expenses are the first costs displayed below revenue. The company starts the preparation of its income statement with top-line revenue. Cost of goods sold (COGS) is subtracted from revenue to arrive at gross income.



After gross income is calculated, operating costs are subtracted to get the company's operating profit, or earnings before interest and tax (EBIT). After operating profit has been derived, non-operating expenses are subtracted from operating profit to arrive at earnings before taxes (EBT). Taxes are then calculated to derive net income.


   Non-Operating Expense Examples  

Most public companies finance their growth with a combination of debt and equity. Regardless of the allocation, any business that has corporate debt also has monthly interest payments. This is considered a non-operating expense because it's not commonly thought of as core operations.



If a company sells a building, and it's not in the business of buying and selling real estate, the sale of the building is a non-operating activity. If the building were sold at a loss, the loss is considered a non-operating expense.


   Frequently Asked Questions  


Why do companies separate out non-operating expenses?
When looking at how a company generates profits, understanding its profits from core operations, net of direct operating expenses, is critical. Costs unrelated to these operations impact the bottom line, but they may not indicate how well a company is running.




What are examples of non-operating expenses?
Interest payments, the costs of disposing of property or assets not related to operations, restructuring costs, inventory write-downs, lawsuits, and other one-time charges are common examples.




Are rent and utilities non-operating expenses?
Typically, no. These would both be directly related to a business' core operations, since without paying rent and utilities, the firm wouldn't be able to function.
What Is Non-Operating Income?  

Non-operating income is the portion of an organization's income that is derived from activities not related to its core business operations. It can include items such as dividend income, profits, or losses from investments, as well as gains or losses incurred by foreign exchange and asset write-downs. Non-operating income is also referred to as incidental or peripheral income.





Key Takeaways

Non-operating income is the portion of an organization's income that is derived from activities not related to its core business operations.It can include dividend income, profits or losses from investments, as well as gains or losses incurred by foreign exchange and asset write-downs.Separating non-operating income from operating income gives investors a clearer picture of how efficient a company is at turning revenue into profit.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   Understanding Non-Operating Income  

Earnings are perhaps the single most studied number in a company's financial statements because they show profitability compared with analyst estimates and company guidance. 



The problem is that profit in an accounting period can be skewed by things that have little to do with the everyday running of the business. For example, there are occasions when a company earns a significant, one-off amount of income from investment securities, a wholly owned subsidiary, or the sale of a large piece of equipment, property or land.



These types of gains—on top of income earned from recurring events outside of the business’ main line of work—can significantly alter a company’s earnings and make it difficult for investors to measure how well the firm’s operations actually fared during the reported period.


   Non-Operating Income vs. Operating Income  

Differentiating what income was generated from the day-to-day business operations and what income was made from other avenues is important to evaluate a company’s real performance. That is why firms are required to disclose non-operating income separately from operating income.



Operating income is an accounting figure that measures the amount of profit realized from a business's operations, after deducting operating expenses such as wages, depreciation, and cost of goods sold (COGS). In short, it provides information to interested parties about how much revenue was turned into profit through the company's normal and ongoing business activities.



Operating income is recorded on the income statement. Toward the bottom of the income statement, under the operating income line, non-operating income should appear, helping investors to distinguish between the two and recognize what income came from where.


   Example of Non-Operating Income  

The main operations of retail stores are the purchasing and selling of merchandise, which requires a lot of cash on hand and liquid assets. Sometimes, a retailer chooses to invest its idle cash on hand in order to put its money to work.



If a retail store invests $10,000 in the stock market, and in a one-month period earns 5% in capital gains, the $500 ($10,000 * 0.05) would be considered non-operating income. When a person sets out to analyze this retail company, the $500 would be discounted as earnings, because it can't be relied on as continuous income over the long term.



Alternatively, if a technology company sells or spins off one of its divisions for $400 million in cash and stock, the proceeds from the sale are considered non-operating income. If the technology company earns $1 billion in income in a year, it's easy to see that the additional $400 million will increase company earnings by 40%.



To an investor, a sharp bump in earnings like this makes the company look like a very attractive investment. However, since the sale cannot be replicated or duplicated, it can't be considered operating income and should be removed from performance analysis.


   Special Considerations  

Sometimes companies try to conceal poor operating profit with high, non-operating income. Beware of management teams attempting to flag metrics that incorporate inflated, separate gains. Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) for example, includes income derived from activities not related to the core business and can often be advertised heavily by companies to mask underwhelming operational results.



Often a sharp spike in earnings from one period to the next will be caused by non-operating income. Seek to get to the bottom of where money was generated and to ascertain how much of it, if any, is linked to the everyday running of the business and is likely to be repeated.



Operating income can help here, but not always. Unfortunately, crafty accountants occasionally find ways to record non-operating transactions as operating income in order to dress up profitability in income statements.
What Is Non-Owner Occupied?  

Non-owner occupied is a classification used in mortgage origination, risk-based pricing, and housing statistics for one- to four-unit investment properties. The classification means that the owner does not occupy the property. The term is not typically used for multifamily rental properties, such as apartment buildings.





Key Takeaways

Non-owner occupied is a real estate classification that means the property owner does not occupy the property as their personal residence.The accurate classification of a property as non-owner occupied is important for lenders to determine the interest rate that they will charge borrowers and to ensure they are adequately compensated for the risks they take in lending money.Because borrowers of non-owner-occupied properties are more likely to default on their mortgages, lenders will charge them a higher interest rate than a mortgage on an owner-occupied property.Occupancy fraud occurs when a borrower lies to a lender, claiming that a property will be owner occupied when, in reality, it will not.A borrower can use a non-owner-occupied renovation loan to purchase an investment property and pay for the costs to repair the property for future tenants.


   Understanding Non-Owner Occupied  

The accurate classification of property is important for real estate lenders to determine the interest rate that they will charge a borrower and to ensure they are adequately compensated for the risks they take in lending money for a purchase. A mortgage on a non-owner-occupied property might have a slightly higher interest rate than a mortgage on an owner-occupied property. This is because borrowers of non-owner-occupied properties are more likely to default on their mortgages.



Because of the higher interest rate, some unscrupulous borrowers will try to classify a non-owner-occupied mortgage as an owner-occupied mortgage to receive a lower interest rate and save money. This is a type of mortgage fraud known as occupancy fraud.



Occupancy fraud occurs when a borrower lies on a mortgage application regarding whether or not the property will be owner occupied. If discovered, the borrower could face many repercussions, including prosecution for bank fraud or a demand from the lender that the entire mortgage balance be repaid immediately.






In some situations, renting an owner-occupied property may not be occupancy fraud, such as when a homeowner must move elsewhere for a job. To avoid unintentionally committing occupancy fraud, borrowers should contact their mortgage lenders before renting owner-occupied properties to tenants.


   Non-Owner-Occupied Properties and the Real Estate Market  

In many cases, non-owner-occupied properties refer to condominiums and other single-family homes that are owned and rented out to others. Non-owner-occupied properties require insurance coverage before renters can use them. Furthermore, if the property is not rented out to tenants, and if it is intentionally vacant with no occupants, then a different type of property insurance will be necessary.



Buying and renting out properties for other residential occupants represents a significant part of the overall real estate market. Those who invest in these properties typically search for properties that need repairs but offer the possibility of attracting tenants if they are refurbished and repositioned on the market. This could also apply to different types of vacation properties that are not the primary dwelling of the owner.


   Non-Owner-Occupied Financing  

There is a class of financing for non-owner-occupied properties specifically for renovation purposes. A non-owner-occupied renovation loan is a type of mortgage that the borrower can use to not only acquire the property but also borrow funds that will go toward the renovation of the dwelling. In this case, the property will not be a turnkey property that the investor can purchase and immediately rent out. The value of such a mortgage is typically based on the value of the property after it has been refurbished and renovated.



While there is no minimum repair work that must be done with the funds from this type of mortgage, the renovations must be a permanent part of the residence. This could include adding a new bathroom, replacing a roof, new plumbing, or paving a new driveway. The renovations must also increase the overall value of the property on which the mortgage was taken out. Cosmetic improvements that increase the appeal of the property are not enough. The repairs and refurbishment must create a tangible improvement to the dwelling’s market value. Such mortgages typically can be used by owners with up to four financed non-owner-occupied properties.




Why is the interest rate higher for non-owner-occupied properties?
Borrowers who do not intend to live in the property as their primary residence have a higher risk of default than borrowers who do live in the property. To compensate for this risk, lenders charge higher rates.




Is it better to refinance or take out a loan on a second property?
That depends on the equity you have in your primary residence. Generally, rates are lower on refinances on primary residences than on non-owner-occupied properties. Get some rates from lenders so that you can do a side-by-side comparison.




Can I get a better rate if I turn a property into my primary residence?
If, after not occupying the property for a long time, you decide to live in it as your primary residence, you may be able to refinance to get a different rate. Keep in mind that every refinance has closing costs, so make sure that you will have a tangible net benefit from refinancing. An example of this would be someone who owns a cabin where they like to vacation who then moves into the cabin full time after retirement. That individual could refinance to get a better rate on their cabin.


   The Bottom Line  

The term “non-owner occupied property” is expository. A non-owner-occupied property is one in which the owner does not occupy the property. Non-owner-occupied properties have higher loan rates than properties that are owner occupied. This creates a situation where borrowers are tempted to commit occupancy fraud to get lower rates, but committing mortgage fraud is always a bad idea. If you do have a non-owner-occupied property, make sure that your property is insured accordingly.
What Is a Nonperforming Asset (NPA)?  

A nonperforming asset (NPA) refers to a classification for loans or advances that are in default or in arrears. A loan is in arrears when principal or interest payments are late or missed. A loan is in default when the lender considers the loan agreement to be broken and the debtor is unable to meet his obligations.





Key Takeaways

Nonperforming assets (NPAs) are recorded on a bank's balance sheet after a prolonged period of non-payment by the borrower.NPAs place financial burden on the lender; a significant number of NPAs over a period of time may indicate to regulators that the financial fitness of the bank is in jeopardy.NPAs can be classified as a substandard asset, doubtful asset, or loss asset, depending on the length of time overdue and probability of repayment.Lenders have options to recover their losses, including taking possession of any collateral or selling off the loan at a significant discount to a collection agency.


   How Nonperforming Assets (NPA) Work  

Nonperforming assets are listed on the balance sheet of a bank or other financial institution. After a prolonged period of non-payment, the lender will force the borrower to liquidate any assets that were pledged as part of the debt agreement. If no assets were pledged, the lender might write-off the asset as a bad debt and then sell it at a discount to a collection agency.



In most cases, debt is classified as nonperforming when loan payments have not been made for a period of 90 days. While 90 days is the standard, the amount of elapsed time may be shorter or longer depending on the terms and conditions of each individual loan. A loan can be classified as a nonperforming asset at any point during the term of the loan or at its maturity.



For example, assume a company with a $10 million loan with interest-only payments of $50,000 per month fails to make a payment for three consecutive months. The lender may be required to categorize the loan as nonperforming to meet regulatory requirements. Alternatively, a loan can also be categorized as nonperforming if a company makes all interest payments but cannot repay the principal at maturity.



Carrying nonperforming assets, also referred to as nonperforming loans, on the balance sheet places significant burden on the lender. The nonpayment of interest or principal reduces the lender's cash flow, which can disrupt budgets and decrease earnings. Loan loss provisions, which are set aside to cover potential losses, reduce the capital available to provide subsequent loans to other borrowers. Once the actual losses from defaulted loans are determined, they are written off against earnings. Carrying a significant amount of NPAs on the balance sheet over a period of time is an indicator to regulators that the financial fitness of the bank is at risk.


   Types of Nonperforming Assets (NPA)  

Although the most common nonperforming assets are term loans, there are other forms of nonperforming assets as well.



Overdraft and cash credit (OD/CC) accounts left out-of-order for more than 90 days
Agricultural advances whose interest or principal installment payments remain overdue for two crop/harvest seasons for short duration crops or overdue one crop season for long duration crops
Expected payment on any other type of account is overdue for more than 90 days


   Recording Nonperforming Assets (NPA)  

Banks are required to classify nonperforming assets into one of three categories according to how long the asset has been nonperforming: sub-standard assets, doubtful assets, and loss assets.



A substandard asset is an asset classified as an NPA for less than 12 months. A doubtful asset is an asset that has been nonperforming for more than 12 months. Loss assets are loans with losses identified by the bank, auditor, or inspector that need to be fully written off. They typically have an extended period of non-payment, and it can be reasonably assumed that it will not be repaid.


   Special Considerations  
  Recovering Losses  

Lenders generally have four options to recoup some or all losses resulting from nonperforming assets. When companies struggle to service their debt, lenders may take proactive steps to restructure loans to maintain cash flow and avoid classifying the loan as nonperforming altogether. When loans in default are collateralized by the borrower's assets, lenders can take possession of the collateral and sell it to cover losses.



Lenders can also convert bad loans into equity, which may appreciate to the point of full recovery of principal lost in the defaulted loan. When bonds are converted to new equity shares, the value of the original shares is usually eliminated. As a last resort, banks can sell bad debts at steep discounts to companies that specialize in loan collections. Lenders typically sell defaulted loans that are unsecured or when other methods of recovery are deemed to not be cost-effective.
What Is a Non-Purpose Loan?  

A non-purpose loan is an alternative type of loan that often involves using investment securities as collateral and relies on complex structuring. Regulated non-purpose loans can be offered by brokerages and financial institutions with some specific government-regulatory documentation requirements.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

A non-purpose loan is an alternative type of loan that uses investment securities as collateral and relies on complex structuring.Even when put up as collateral, non-purpose loans allow investors to continue to receive the benefits of their portfolio holdings—such as dividends, interest and appreciation—without having to sell their investments.Financial institutions must disclose whether a loan is a non-purpose loan to the Federal Reserve under Regulation U.﻿﻿


   How a Non-Purpose Loan Works  

Regulated non-purpose loans allow a borrower to use an investment portfolio as loan collateral, though the proceeds cannot be used for purchasing, carrying or trading securities. One advantage of this type of loan is that it gives investors access to funds without having to sell their investments.



Generally, non-purpose loans may also be featured as a lending category across a variety of lending platforms. Typically, lenders will require a borrower to specify a loan purpose for a personal loan. This is especially important with online lending platforms where retail and institutional investors choose to invest in loans by their particular purpose.



Regulations require financial institutions to disclose whether a loan is a non-purpose or purpose loan. This is regulated by the Federal Reserve under Regulation U. Borrowers obtaining a non-purpose loan must complete a compliance form detailing the terms of the loan and its non-purpose obligations.﻿﻿


  Loan Platform Categories  

In general, online loan platforms may also offer non-purpose loans which are personal loans obtained by borrowers with no specific purpose for their use. Online lending investors in platforms such as Lending Club or Prosper will often invest in platform loans based on the loan’s purpose so this classification can also provide consideration in investment risk analysis.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿






Non-purpose loans give investors access to funds without having to sell their investments.


   Non-Purpose Loan vs. Margin Loan  

Non-purpose loans are considered an alternative to traditional margin borrowing because they allow multiple investment accounts to be used to secure a loan. Both non-purpose and margin loans will allow investors to continue to receive the benefits of their portfolio holdings, such as dividends, interest and appreciation. Both are also subject to a margin call if the value of the pledged securities declines below the specified limit. Nonetheless, there are differences between these two types of borrowing.



Non-purpose loans are typically marketed as securities backed lines of credit (SBLOCs). They are generally more complex to obtain than a standard margin loan. And, as noted above, they cannot be used to buy securities whereas margin loans are typically used for the sole purpose of investing in securities.



Brokerages offer margin loans on individual investment accounts. SBLOCs offer borrowers the opportunity to obtain a loan through the use of multiple account investments. Some SBLOCs may require a specific account to obtain the lending proceeds.


   Example of a Non-Purpose Loan  

Charles Schwab provides one example with its Pledged Asset Line of Credit product. Generally, borrowers can access up to 70% of their collateral assets as cash through the loan agreement. Terms of up to five years are available and the only applicable fees are late fees. Like all non-purpose loans, the Schwab's Pledged Asset Line cannot be used to buy securities.﻿﻿
What Are 409A Plans?  

409A plans are a type of non-qualified deferred compensation plan for compensation that has been earned by an employee but not yet received from their employer. Because the ownership of the compensation—which may be monetary or otherwise—has not been transferred to the employee, it is not yet part of the employee's earned income and is not counted as taxable income.



The Internal Revenue Service code 409A governs for-profit NQDCs, such as plans for employees working for a large corporation. Other plans for employees of non-profits or government entities are included under IRS Sections 457(b) or 457(f).





Key Takeaways

A non-qualified deferred compensation (NQDC) has been earned by an employee but not yet received from their employer.409A plans emerged in response to the cap on employee contributions to government-sponsored retirement savings plans.An NQDC plan sponsored by for-profit plan sponsors is governed by Internal Revenue Code (IRC) Section 409A.An NQDC sponsored by a nonprofit or governmental plan sponsor is governed under IRC Section 457(b) or 457(f).


   Understanding 409A Plans  

NQDCs as 409A plans reference the section of the tax code they exist in. They were created in response to the cap on employee contributions to government-sponsored retirement savings plans. Because high-income earners were unable to contribute the same proportional amounts to their tax-deferred retirement savings as other earners, NQDCs offer a way for high-income earners to defer the actual ownership of income and avoid income taxes on their earnings while enjoying tax-deferred investment growth.



For example, if Sarah, an executive, earned $750,000 per year, her maximum 401(k) contribution of $22,500 (for tax year 2023) would represent only 3% of her annual earnings, making it challenging to save enough in her retirement account to replace her salary in retirement.



By deferring some of her earnings to an NQDC, she could postpone paying income taxes on her earnings, enabling her to save a higher percentage of her income than is allowable under her 401(k) plan. Savings in an NQDC are often deferred for five or 10 years, or until the employee retires.






An NQDC plan sponsored by for-profit plan sponsors is governed by Internal Revenue Code (IRC) Section 409A, while one sponsored by a nonprofit or governmental plan sponsor is governed under IRC Section 457(b) or 457(f).



NQDCs don’t have the same restrictions as retirement plans; an employee could use their deferred income for other savings goals, like travel or education expenses. Investment vehicles for NQDC contributions vary by employer and may be similar to the 401(k) investment options offered by a company.


   Limitations of NQDCs  

NQDCs can be a valuable savings vehicle for highly compensated workers who’ve exhausted their other savings options, but they're not risk-free. They’re not protected by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) like 401(k)s and 403(b)s are. If the company holding an employee’s NQDC declared bankruptcy or was sued, the employee’s assets would not be protected from the company’s creditors.



Additionally, the money from NQDCs cannot be rolled over into an IRA or other retirement accounts after they’re paid out. Another consideration is that if tax rates are higher when the employee accesses their NQDC than they were when the employee earned the income, the employee's tax burden could increase.




When Do I Pay Tax on an NQDC Plan?
Compensation that is put into an NQDC plan is taxed when you actually receive it. This should be after you retire; otherwise, you may owe a penalty in addition to tax on the compensation. There are also other triggering events that can prompt distributions, such as a disability.




How Is Deferred Compensation Taxed?
Deferred compensation is taxed when you receive it. This means that it will be taxed according to your income bracket when you take a distribution from your NQDC, not your tax bracket when you first earned the income.




How Do I Report Distributions From a 409A Plan?
Distributions from a 409A Plan are income that you previously earned but did not receive until you took the distribution. This means that they will be reported by your employer on a W-2 form, which you should receive, even if you are no longer an employee at that company. It may also be reported on form 1099-MISC.


   The Bottom Line  

A 409A plan is a type of non-qualified deferred compensation (NQDC) plan that allows high earners to save more for retirement. Because the compensation that goes into these accounts has been earned by the employee but not yet received by them, it is not yet taxable.



NQCD plans come with some risks. They are not protected from employer bankruptcy the way other retirement plans are, and they cannot be rolled over into an IRA. But these plans can still benefit high-earning employees by allowing them to save more than they would otherwise be able to save in a retirement account like a 401(k).
What Is a Nonqualified Plan?  

A nonqualified plan is a type of tax-deferred, employer-sponsored retirement plan that falls outside of Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) guidelines. Nonqualified plans are designed to meet specialized retirement needs for key executives and other select employees and can act as recruitment or employee retention tools. These plans are also exempt from the discriminatory and top-heavy testing that qualified plans are subject to.





Key Takeaways


Nonqualified plans are retirement savings plans.
They are called nonqualified because unlike qualified plans they do not adhere to Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) guidelines.
Nonqualified plans are generally used to provide high-paid executives with an additional retirement savings option.



   How a Nonqualified Plan Works  

There are four major types of nonqualified plans:



Deferred-compensation plansExecutive bonus plansSplit-dollar life insurance plansGroup carve-out plans



The contributions made to these types of plans are usually nondeductible to the employer and taxable to the employee.



However, they allow employees to defer taxes until retirement (when they presumably will be in a lower tax bracket). Nonqualified plans are often used to provide specialized forms of compensation to key executives or employees instead of making them partners or part owners in a company or corporation.



One of the other major goals of a nonqualified plan is to allow highly compensated employees to contribute to another retirement plan after their qualified retirement plan contributions have been maxed out, which usually happens quickly given their level of compensation.


   Deferred Compensation as a Nonqualified Plan  

There are two types of deferred compensation plans: true deferred compensation plans and salary-continuation plans. Both plans are designed to provide executives with supplemental retirement income. The primary difference between the two is in the funding source. With a true deferred compensation plan, the executive defers a portion of their income, which is often bonus income.



With a salary-continuation plan, the employer funds the future retirement benefit on the executive's behalf. Both plans allow for the earnings to accumulate tax-deferred until retirement when the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) will tax the income received as if it were ordinary income.


   Other Plans  
  Nonqualified Plan: Executive Bonus Plan   

Executive bonus plans are straightforward. A company issues an executive a life insurance policy with employer-paid premiums as a bonus. Premium payments are considered compensation and are deductible by the employer. The bonus payments are taxable to the executive. In some cases, the employer may pay a bonus over the premium amount to cover the executive’s taxes.


  Nonqualified Plan: Split-Dollar Plan  

A split-dollar plan is used when an employer wants to provide a key employee with a permanent life insurance policy. Under this arrangement, an employer purchases a policy on the employee's life, and the employer and the employee divide ownership of the policy.



The employee may be responsible for paying the mortality cost, while the employer pays the balance of the premium. At death, the employee’s beneficiaries receive the main portion of the death benefit, while the employer receives a portion equal to its investment in the plan.


  Nonqualified Plan: Group Carve-Out   

A group carve-out plan is another life insurance arrangement in which the employer carves out a key employee’s group life insurance over $50,000 and replaces it with an individual policy. This allows the key employee to avoid the imputed income on group life insurance above $50,000. The employer redirects the premium it would have paid on the excess group life insurance to the individual policy owned by the employee.


   Example of a Nonqualified Plan  

Consider a high-paid executive working in the financial industry who contributes the maximum to their 401(k), and is looking for additional ways to save for retirement. At the same time, their employer offers nonqualified deferred compensation plans to executives. This allows the executive to defer a greater part of their compensation, along with taxes on this money, into this plan. 



Often, employers and executives will agree on a set period that the income will be deferred, which could be anywhere from five years up until retirement. Ultimately, the deferred income has the ability to grow tax-deferred until it is distributed. These deferral amounts may change from year to year, depending on the agreement between the executive and employer.
What Is a Non-Qualified Stock Option (NSO)?  

A non-qualified stock option (NSO) is a type of employee stock option wherein you pay ordinary income tax on the difference between the grant price and the price at which you exercise the option.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

Non-qualified stock options require payment of income tax of the grant price minus the price of the exercised option.NSOs might be provided as an alternative form of compensation.Prices are often similar to the market value of the shares.


   Breaking Down Non-Qualified Stock Option (NSO)  

NSOs are simpler and more common than incentive stock options (ISOs). They are called non-qualified stock options because they do not meet all of the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code to be qualified as ISOs.﻿﻿


   How Non-Qualified Stocks Are Used  

Non-qualified stock options give employees the right, within a designated timeframe, to buy a set number of shares of their company’s shares at a preset price. It may be offered as an alternative form of compensation to workers and also as a means to encourage their loyalty with the company.﻿﻿





Important

Non-qualified stock options often reduce the cash compensation employees earn from employment.



The price of these stock options is typically the same as the market value of the shares when the company makes such options available, also known as the grant date. Employees will have a deadline to exercise these options, known as the expiration date. If the date passes without the options being exercised, the employee would lose those options.



There is an expectation that the company’s share price will increase over time. That means employees stand potentially to acquire stock at a discount if the grant price—also known as the exercise price—is lower than later market prices. However, the employee will pay income tax against the difference with a market share price of the stock when the option is exercised. Once the options are exercised, the employee can choose to sell the shares immediately or retain them.﻿﻿






Non-qualified stock options (NSOs) allow employees to buy a company’s shares at a preset price.



As with other types of stock options, non-qualified stock options can be a way to reduce the cash compensation that companies pay directly to their employees while also connecting part of their compensation to the growth of the companies. The terms of the options may require employees to wait a period of time for the options to vest. Furthermore, the employee could lose the options if they left the company before the stock options are vested. There might also be clawback provisions that allow the company to reclaim NSOs for a variety of reasons. This can include insolvency of the company or a buyout.



For smaller and younger businesses with limited resources, such options that can be offered in lieu of salary increases. They can also be used as a recruiting tool to make up for shortcomings in the salaries offered when hiring talent.
What Is a Non-Qualifying Investment?  

A non-qualifying investment is an investment that does not qualify for any level of tax-deferred or tax-exempt status. Investments of this sort are made with after-tax money. They are purchased and held in tax-deferred accounts, plans, or trusts. Returns from these investments are taxed on an annual 





Key Takeaways

A non-qualifying investment is an investment that doesn't have any tax benefits.Annuities are a common example of non-qualifying investments as are antiques, collectibles, jewelry, precious metals, and art.Non-qualifying investments are purchased and held in tax-deferred accounts, plans, or trusts and returns from these investments are taxed on an annual basis.


   Understanding Non-Qualifying Investments  

Annuities represent a common example of non-qualified investments. Over time, the asset may grow with deferred taxes pending withdrawal. For non-qualified annuities, when they are cashed out and surrendered, the first money to come out of the account is treated as earnings for the account holder for tax purposes. If the account holder also withdraws the money originally invested, known as the cost basis, that portion is not taxed again because those taxes were already paid.



With non-qualifying investments, an investor is typically under no annual restrictions as to the amount they can put towards such assets. This can sometimes offer more flexibility compared with qualifying investment accounts, which usually have maximum amounts that may be contributed, depending on the type of asset.



Employee 401(k) accounts, for example, are limited to an annual maximum contribution. The limit may increase somewhat over the years, as determined by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). A non-qualifying investment can see any size contribution made over the course of each year according to the account holder’s strategy for saving.



Account holders can also make withdrawals on non-qualifying investments when they want, though they will pay tax on interest and other gains, such as appreciation, that have accrued. There also may still be early withdrawal penalties if the account holder takes cash from certain types of assets before reaching a specific age—typically 59½. Also, the account holder might be required to start making withdrawals from their non-qualifying investment accounts at a certain age, often 70½.


   Non-Qualifying Investment Example  

Some examples of investments that do not usually qualify for tax-exempt status are antiques, collectibles, jewelry, precious metals, and art. Other investments that may not qualify for any sort of preferential tax treatment are stocks, bonds, REITs (real estate investment trusts), and any other traditional investment that is not bought under a qualifying investment plan or trust.
Non-recourse debt is a type of loan secured by collateral, commonly property. If the borrower defaults, the issuer can seize the collateral but cannot seek out the borrower for any further compensation, even if the collateral does not cover the full value of the defaulted amount. A non-recourse debt does not hold the borrower personally liable for the loan.





Key Takeaways

Non-recourse debt is a type of loan that is secured by collateral, commonly property. Lenders charge higher interest rates on non-recourse debt.Non-recourse debt is characterized by high capital expenditures, long loan periods, and uncertain revenue streams.A non-recourse debt does not hold the borrower personally liable for the loan.


   Understanding Non-Recourse Debt  

Non-recourse debt poses a greater risk to the lender than recourse debt, especially if the resale value of a loan's collateral decreases below the owed balance throughout the life of the loan.



Conversely, recourse debt allows the lender to pursue the borrower for any balance that remains after liquidating the collateral. For this reason, lenders charge higher interest rates on non-recourse debt to compensate for the elevated risk.


   Recourse vs. Non-Recourse Debt  

Recourse debt gives the creditor full autonomy to pursue the borrower for the total debt owed in the event of default. Both unsecured and secured personal loans can be recourse debts where the borrower assumes all risk and is personally liable. After liquidating the collateral, any balance that remains is known as a deficiency balance.



The lender may attempt to collect this balance by several means, including filing a lawsuit and obtaining a deficiency judgment in court.



When a debt is non-recourse, the lender may liquidate the collateral but may not attempt to collect the deficiency balance. Non-recourse loans are a type of loan where the bank assumes most of the risk.






With non-recourse debt, the creditor's only protection against borrower default is the ability to seize the collateral and liquidate it to cover the debt owed.


   Non-Recourse Debt Example  

If an auto lender loans a customer $30,000 at zero interest for a five-year loan to purchase a new vehicle, the new car's value, historically, will decline in value following the purchase. If the borrower stops making car payments after one year, the vehicle may be worth only $22,000, yet the borrower still owes $26,000.



With the customer's default, the lender repossesses the car and liquidates it for its full market value, leaving a deficient balance of $4,000. If the loan was a non-recourse loan, the lender assumes the loss.




When Is a Loan Issued as Non-Recourse?
Whether a debt is a recourse or nonrecourse loan often depends on state law.Some states may require that all mortgages are nonrecourse debt and in the instance of a default, lenders cannot pursue a deficiency judgment after collateral has been seized.




Who Can Qualify For a Non-Recourse Loan?
Because non-recourse debt poses a greater risk to the lender, a borrower may need high credit scores and a low loan-to-value ratio. The interest rates on non-recourse loans may also be higher to compensate for the risk.




How Are Liabilities Paid For a Recourse Loan?
After collateral has been seized, a deficiency judgment may levy the borrower's bank accounts or garnish wages to repay the debt balance.


   The Bottom Line  

Non-recourse debt is characterized by high capital expenditures, long loan periods, and uncertain revenue streams. Underwriting these loans requires financial modeling skills and sound knowledge of the underlying technical domain. Lenders impose higher credit standards on borrowers to minimize the chance of default. Non-recourse loans, on account of their greater risk, carry higher interest rates than recourse loans.
What Is Non-Recourse Finance?  

Non-recourse finance is a type of commercial lending that entitles the lender to repayment only from the profits of the project the loan is funding and not from any other assets of the borrower. Such loans are generally secured by collateral.



A non-recourse loan, more broadly, is any consumer or commercial debt that is secured only by collateral. In case of default, the lender may not seize any assets of the borrower beyond the collateral. A mortgage loan is typically a non-recourse loan.





Key Takeaways

Non-recourse financing entitles the lender to repayment only from the profits of the project which the loan is funding.No other assets of the borrower can be seized to recoup the loan upon default.Non-recourse financing typically requires substantial collateral and a higher interest rate and is typically used in land development projects.


   Understanding Non-Recourse Finance  

Non-recourse financing is a branch of commercial lending that is characterized by high capital expenditures, distant repayment prospects, and uncertain returns.



In fact, it is similar in its character and risks to venture capital financing. For example, say a company wants to build a new factory. The borrower presents a bank with a detailed plan for the construction, and with a business plan for the greatly-expanded production that it will enable the company to undertake. Repayment can be made only when the factory is up and running, and only with the profits of that production.



The lender is agreeing to terms that do not include access to any of the borrowers' assets beyond the agreed upon collateral, even if they default on the loans. Payments will only be made when and if the funded projects generate revenue. If a project produces no revenue, the lender receives no payment on the debt. Once the collateral is seized, the bank cannot go after the borrowers in hopes of recouping any remaining losses.






Non-recourse loans and recourse loans are subject to different tax treatments in the U.S.


   Where Non-Recourse Loans Are Used  

Compare a non-recourse loan with the more conventional loan, in which the borrower must begin repaying immediately and in installments every month thereafter. Not surprisingly, interest rates are generally higher on non-recourse loans to compensate for the elevated risk. Substantial collateral is also required.



Non-recourse loans are often used to finance commercial real estate ventures and other projects that involve a long lead time to completion. In the case of real estate, the land provides the collateral for the loan. They also are used in the financial industry, with securities used as collateral.


   Special Considerations for Non-Recourse Loans  

Non-recourse loans and recourse loans are subject to different tax treatments in the U.S. Non-recourse loans are considered to be paid in full once the underlying asset is seized, regardless of the price at which the asset is sold.



In the case of recourse debt, if the financial institution forgives any part of the debt after the associated asset is seized and sold, the forgiven amount may be treated as ordinary income that the debtor must report to the Internal Revenue Service.
What Is a Nonrefundable Tax Credit?  

A nonrefundable tax credit is a reduction in the amount of income taxes that a taxpayer owes. It can reduce the amount owed to zero, but no further. In other words, the taxpayer forfeits any credit that exceeds the total amount of taxes owed. 



By contrast, a refundable tax credit results in a refund from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) if the credit reduces the taxpayer’s liability to a number below zero.



Refundable and nonrefundable tax credits are both directly subtracted from the amount of taxes that a taxpayer owes. Tax deductions, on the other hand, are subtracted from the taxpayer’s taxable income. Tax credits generally result in bigger savings, especially for lower-income filers.





Key Takeaways

A tax credit is a tax break that reduces a filer’s tax liability dollar for dollar.A nonrefundable tax credit can only reduce tax liability to zero.A refundable tax credit results in a tax refund if the amount owed is below zero.Examples of nonrefundable credits in the U.S. tax code include the foreign tax credit (FTC) and the saver’s credit.


   How Nonrefundable Tax Credits Work  

The U.S. tax code provides certain tax breaks in the form of tax credits that reduce the tax liability of eligible taxpayers. A tax credit is applied to the amount of tax owed by the taxpayer after all other allowable deductions are made from the person’s taxable income.



A tax credit reduces the total tax bill of an individual dollar for dollar.


  Refundable Credits vs. Nonrefundable Credits  

A tax credit can be either refundable or nonrefundable. A refundable tax credit usually results in a refund check if the tax credit is more than the individual’s total tax liability.



For example, a taxpayer who applies a $3,400 refundable tax credit to a $3,000 tax bill will have the bill reduced to zero and the remaining portion of the credit—$400—refunded to the taxpayer.



A nonrefundable tax credit does not result in a refund to the taxpayer, as it will only reduce the tax owed to zero.



Following the example above, if the $3,400 tax credit was nonrefundable, the individual will owe nothing to the government but will forfeit the $400 that remains unused after the credit is applied.


  Tax Deductions vs. Tax Credits  

A tax deduction reduces the income subject to tax, but a tax credit reduces the amount of taxes that are owed on a dollar-for-dollar basis.



Which is the better benefit depends on the taxpayer’s marginal tax rate. If a taxpayer is entitled to a tax deduction of $100 and has a marginal tax rate of 30%, the deduction will save the taxpayer $30. If the same taxpayer is entitled to a tax credit of 50% of an expenditure of $100, the savings is $50. However, if the same taxpayer claims a tax credit for 20% of $100, the savings is only $20.     






Unlike tax deductions, which reduce taxable income, a tax credit reduces the amount of tax that you owe, dollar for dollar.


   Examples of Nonrefundable Tax Credits  

Commonly claimed tax credits that are nonrefundable include:



Saver’s credit
Lifetime learning credit (LLC)
Adoption credit
Foreign tax credit (FTC)
Mortgage interest tax credit
Elderly and disabled credit
Residential energy efficient property credit
General business credit (GBC)
Alternative motor vehicle credit
Credit for holders of tax credit bonds



Some nonrefundable tax credits, such as the general business credit (GBC) and foreign tax credit (FTC), allow taxpayers to carry any unused amounts backward to a prior year and forward to future tax years.



However, time limits apply to the carryover rules, and they differ depending on the specific credit. For example, while unused portions of the GBC may be carried forward up to 20 years, an individual can carry unused FTC amounts forward only up to 10 years.


   Strategies for Maximizing Nonrefundable Credits  

If a taxpayer has both refundable and nonrefundable tax credits, the benefits can be maximized by applying the nonrefundable credits before claiming any refundable credits.



Nonrefundable tax credits should be used first to minimize the taxes owed. Only then should the refundable tax credits be applied to reduce the tax liability even further to the point that the liability reaches zero. If any refundable credits are unused after the total tax liability is completely offset, the taxpayer will receive a refund check for the total amount of unused credits.



If the refundable credits were claimed first, there is a risk that all the refundable credits will be used to offset taxes due and any remaining nonrefundable credits will only reduce the tax owed to zero. The unused nonrefundable credits will not entitle the taxpayer to a refund.  



Low-income taxpayers often are unable to use the entire amount of their nonrefundable credits. Nonrefundable tax credits are valid only in the year when they are generated; they expire if unused and may not be carried over to future years.



For the 2022 tax year, specific examples of nonrefundable tax credits include credits for adoption, credits for energy-efficient residential property, and the saver’s tax credit for funding retirement accounts.  




What is the foreign tax credit?
The foreign tax credit (FTC) is a nonrefundable credit for U.S. taxpayers who have income overseas that minimizes double taxation. Since American citizens must pay U.S. income tax on all sources of income, domestic or foreign, the FTC offsets some of the foreign tax already paid on the same income.




Can I receive a tax refund if I use a nonrefundable tax credit?
Sure, you’ll still receive the refund that you qualify for, but it won’t include a reimbursement for any unused portion of your nonrefundable tax credit.It also depends on how much tax withholding you’ve had during the year. Nonrefundable credits only reduce the amount you owe in taxes and do not pay you a refund if your tax bill goes to zero and the whole credit has not been used.However, if you have zero taxable income due to such credits and you paid taxes monthly via payroll withholding, you will likely receive some or all of that back as a refund.On their own, nonrefundable credits cannot generate a refund or be used to increase the amount you would otherwise receive.




What are examples of refundable tax credits?
Refundable tax credits are refunded to the taxpayer regardless of the taxpayer’s liability. These include the earned income tax credit (EITC) and the additional child tax credit (ACTC).


   The Bottom Line  

Nonrefundable tax credits can reduce a taxpayer’s bill to zero, but no further. If the taxpayer owes less in taxes than the nonrefundable credit is worth, they don’t get reimbursed for the unused credit. The opposite is true of a refundable credit.



Taxpayers entitled to both types of credits should apply their nonrefundable credits first. Only then should they figure in refundable credits that could yield a refund.
What Are Non-Renounceable Rights?  

A non-renounceable rights issue refers to an offer issued by a corporation to shareholders to purchase more shares of the corporation (usually at a discount).



Unlike a renounceable right, a non-renounceable right is not transferable, and therefore cannot be bought or sold.





Key Takeaways

A non-renounceable rights issue allows existing shareholders to purchase more shares of a company at a discount. Those shares can't be traded.A renounceable right, on the other hand, permits the trading of the rights.Companies might offer non-renounceable rights issues if an urgent need for cash arises.


   Understanding Non-Renounceable Rights  

Issuing more shares dilutes the value of outstanding stock. But because the rights issue allows existing shareholders to buy the newly issued stock at a discount, they are compensated for the impending share dilution. The compensation the rights issue gives them is equivalent to the cost of share dilution. However, shareholders who do not take exercise the rights by buying the discounted stock will lose money as their existing holdings will suffer from the dilution.


  Renounceable Rights  

A renounceable right is also an invitation to a company's existing shareholders to buy additional new shares in the company. While shareholders have the authority to buy more shares, they can renounce that privilege and trade their rights on the open market.


   Why Companies Offer Non-Renounceable Rights  

By offering non-renounceable rights, the company is setting a narrow window of opportunity for shareholders to purchase stock at discount. Offering such rights can be seen as more favorable to the company than to existing shareholders, despite a discount being offered. If the shareholders do not have sufficient funds at the time the non-renounceable rights are exercisable, they may lose the opportunity to buy at the discount rate. Regardless of what action the existing shareholders take, the company will proceed with issuing more stock.



A company might offer non-renounceable rights on shares if there's a timeframe and capital objective the business needs to meet. It may need to raise funds for an acquisition, expand its operations through hiring or adding new locations, paying back debts, or any number of things. The company might be facing bankruptcy if it doesn't address its capital circumstances.



If the company must raise capital to maintain its prospects as a going concern, it might be necessary to issue shares regardless of the potential dilution to existing shares. Non-renounceable rights are a way for the company to give existing shareholders the chance to maintain their stake in the business while controlling the leeway available to them to take advantage of the discounts. For shareholders, this can be seen as a less than desirable option than being offered rights they could conceivably sell on the market and see returns for themselves.
What Is a Non-Sampling Error?  

A non-sampling error is a statistical term that refers to an error that results during data collection, causing the data to differ from the true values. A non-sampling error differs from a sampling error. A sampling error is limited to any differences between sample values and universe values that arise because the sample size was limited. (The entire universe cannot be sampled in a survey or a census.)





Key Takeaways

A non-sampling error is a term used in statistics that refers to an error that occurs during data collection, causing the data to differ from the true values. A non-sampling error refers to either random or systematic errors, and these errors can be challenging to spot in a survey, sample, or census. Systematic non-sampling errors are worse than random non-sampling errors because systematic errors may result in the study, survey or census having to be scrapped. The higher the number of errors, the less reliable the information.When non-sampling errors occur, the rate of bias in a study or survey goes up. 



A sampling error can result even when no mistakes of any kind are made. The "errors" result from the mere fact that data in a sample is unlikely to perfectly match data in the universe from which the sample is taken. This "error" can be minimized by increasing the sample size.



Non-sampling errors cover all other discrepancies, including those that arise from a poor sampling technique.


   How a Non-Sampling Error Works  

Non-sampling errors may be present in both samples and censuses in which an entire population is surveyed. Non-sampling errors fall under two categories: random and systematic.



Random errors are believed to offset each other and therefore, most often, are of little concern. Systematic errors, on the other hand, affect the entire sample and therefore present a more significant issue. Random errors, generally, will not result in scrapping a sample or a census, whereas a systematic error will most likely render the data collected unusable.






Non-sampling errors are caused by external factors rather than an issue within a survey, study, or census.



There are many ways non-sampling errors can occur. For example, non-sampling errors can include but are not limited to, data entry errors, biased survey questions, biased processing/decision making, non-responses, inappropriate analysis conclusions, and false information provided by respondents.


   Special Considerations  

While increasing sample size can help minimize sampling errors, it will not have any effect on reducing non-sampling errors. This is because non-sampling errors are often difficult to detect, and it is virtually impossible to eliminate them.



Non-sampling errors include non-response errors, coverage errors, interview errors, and processing errors. A coverage error would occur, for example, if a person were counted twice in a survey, or their answers were duplicated on the survey. If an interviewer is biased in their sampling, the non-sampling error would be considered an interviewer error.



In addition, it is difficult to prove that respondents in a survey are providing false information—either by mistake or on purpose. Either way, misinformation provided by respondents count as non-sampling errors and they are described as response errors.



Technical errors exist in a different category. If there are any data-related entries⁠—such as coding, collection, entry, or editing—they are considered processing errors.
What Is a Non-Security?  

A non-security is an alternative investment that is not traded on a public exchange as stocks and bonds are. Assets such as art, rare coins, life insurance, gold, and diamonds all are non-securities.



Non-securities by definition are not liquid assets. That is, they cannot be easily bought or sold on demand as no exchange exists for trading them.



Non-securities also are known as real assets.


   Understanding Non-Securities  

Individual markets exist for non-securities, ranging from auctions to private listings. However, these are generally specialized sources. Non-securities cannot be purchased on a public exchange such as the NYSE or the NASDAQ.





Key Takeaways

Non-securities, also called real assets, are investments that are not available for purchase or sale on public exchanges.They may, however, be a component of an investment that trades publicly, such as an ETF.Diamonds and fine art are examples of non-security investments.



While they do not trade on public market exchanges, they may be components of packaged investment offerings that are traded on public exchanges, such as exchange-traded funds (ETFs).



High-net-worth investors may have comprehensive portfolios that include valuable non-security assets such as fine art, precious metals, and real estate. Investors may also buy funds that manage portfolios of real assets such as gold. These funds trade on public exchanges.



The SPDR Gold Shares ETF is one example. The portfolio is fully invested in gold bullion. This ETF lowers the barriers for investors who would like to hold gold real assets in their portfolio.






Some personal financial assets such as life insurance could be called non-securities.



However, non-security assets do not themselves undergo an institutionalized process for public trading on exchanges. This makes them highly illiquid investments, in contrast to securities such as stocks, mutual funds, and bonds.


  Valuation of Non-Securities  

The valuation process for non-securities also differs. Market experts in each type of non-security typically appraise them to estimate their valuations. In some cases, non-securities may require authentication and registration to support their use and potential sale.



These assets, however, do not require the backing of an underwriter or bank and involve much less documentation and paperwork.


  Personal Financial Assets as Non-Securities  

Some personal financial assets such as life insurance and annuities could be considered non-securities.



Investors have the option to invest in these non-security assets through an insurance company. Life insurance and annuities are two types of non-security assets that are not publicly traded but rather contractual agreements made with a sponsoring company.



Life insurance and annuities require regular premium payments that help to build out a portfolio that offers a payout in the future. Life insurance plans can be used to provide for dependents following the death of a family member. Annuity plans may also offer provisions for life insurance. However, they are often used as vehicles for retirement savings with consistent annuity payouts scheduled to follow a targeted payout date.



That makes them assets, although they are not securities.
What Are Non-Sufficient Funds (NSF)?  

Non-sufficient funds (NSF), or insufficient funds, is the status of a checking account that does not have enough money to cover all transactions. NSF also describes the fee charged when a check is presented but cannot be covered by the balance in the account. 



Customers will see a “non-sufficient funds” or “insufficient funds” notice on a bank statement when attempting to withdraw more money than their account holds.



When payment cannot be completed it is often considered as “bounced." If a bank receives a check written on an account with insufficient funds, the bank can refuse payment and charge the account holder an NSF fee. Additionally, a penalty or fee may be charged by the merchant for the returned check.





Key Takeaways

A checking account is said to have “non-sufficient funds” (NSF), or "insufficient funds” when it lacks the money needed to cover transactions.The acronym NSF also references the fee a customer is charged for presenting a check or payment that cannot be covered by the balance in the account.Consumers can avoid NSF fees by opting for overdraft protection through their banks.


   How Non-Sufficient Funds Fees Work  

Banks often charge NSF fees when a presented check is returned or payment cannot be made due to a lack of funds to cover it. NSF Fees average $34 each, according to 2022 data from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).



When a check is written and deposited by the payee, their financial institution must make the funds available to them within two business days after they make the deposit. If funds are not available from the payer's bank account, it is deemed as insufficient and an NSF fee is assessed.



Banks provide account holders with several options to avoid the penalties associated with an insufficient funds transaction. Customers can opt out of overdraft policies that allow the bank to cover charges and add an NSF fee, or link at least one backup account, such as a savings account or credit card to fund the insufficient account.






In 2023, the CFPB issued a report saying it found numerous financial institutions charging multiple NSF fees for the same transaction, potentially as soon as the next day. While this is not illegal, the CFPB said that consumers could not reasonably avoid the penalties—for which some institutions reaped millions of dollars in fees—and that the fees weren't justified by benefits to consumers or competition. As a result, nearly all of the banks and credit unions the CFPB engaged with provided plans to stop charging NSF fees altogether.


   NSF Fees vs. Overdraft Fees  

Non-sufficient funds and overdrafts are two distinct bank transactions. Both relate to insufficient funds and can trigger fees. Banks charge NSF fees when they return presented payments without payment, like a check, and overdraft fees when they accept and pay the checks that overdraw checking accounts.



A customer with $100 in a checking account may initiate an automated clearing house (ACH) or electronic check payment for a purchase in the amount of $120. If the bank refuses to pay the check, an NSF fee is incurred. If the bank accepts the check and pays the seller, the checking account balance falls to –$20 and incurs an overdraft (OD) fee. 



Overdraft protection is often an option for banking customers. If a customer has $20 in a checking account and attempts to make a $40 purchase with a debit or check card and has not opted-in to the bank’s overdraft plan, the transaction will be declined by the retailer.



If the customer has OD protection, the transaction may be accepted, and the bank may assess an OD fee. However, if the customer wrote a check for the $40 transaction, the bank may honor it and assess an OD fee or reject it and assess an NSF fee, regardless of whether or not the customer has joined the overdraft program.


   How to Avoid NSF Fees  

Properly budget for monthly paymentsAvoid intentionally writing a check or making a payment for more than the current checking account balance.Monitor account balances, debit card transactions, and automated payments.Link multiple accounts like a checking and a savings account so the money will automatically move from one to the other to cover shortfalls.Look to banks for overdraft lines of credit, a special product to apply for to cover any issues with insufficient funds. An overdraft line of credit requires a credit application, which considers a customer's credit score and credit profile in determining approval.






Many banks now allow you to set up low-balance alerts: You get a text or email notification when the funds in your account drop below a figure you designate. That can help you keep track of how much money is currently available, and you can adjust your spending accordingly.


   Criticism of NSF Fees  

The CFPB oversees and protects consumers while using financial services. In 2010, sweeping bank-reform laws addressed overdraft and NSF fees and implemented guidance allowing consumers to opt for overdraft protection through their banks. More protections for consumers become increasingly urgent as financial institutions mishandle fee policies.



Financial institutions have reordered transactions, processing debits to consumer accounts in a way to maximize overdraft fees by deducting the largest first, rather than in chronological order. In 2011, Bank of America settled a two-year-old class action for $410 million for reordering customer transactions and charging overdraft fees in this way. TD Bank paid over $62 million in a class action settlement for the same mismanagement of fees in 2010.



In 2020, the Bank of Hawaii set up a settlement fund of $8 million to repay clients who had been charged for authorized customer payments while funds were available, but settled the debits once the accounts moved to an insufficient status and charging fees. The bank agreed to forgive overdraft fees that remained unpaid.



Financial institutions have practiced single transaction, multiple fee activity, assessing more than one NSF fee on a single item or transaction if the payment request is automatically re-submitted repeatedly by the creditor. In 2020, the Navy Federal Credit Union settled such a case for $16 million, without conceding any wrongdoing or liability.



This was followed by the 2023 CFPB report that found a number of banks and credit unions had engaged in similar actions as Navy Federal. The institutions then said they would reimburse wronged consumers and issued plans to stop charging any NSF fees.


   Frequently Asked Questions  


Why Do Banks Charge an NSF Fee?
Banks charge NSF fees for the cost and inconvenience of having to return declined checks. "For many, overdraft/NSF fees have emerged as the No. 1 generator of fee income and is one of the bank’s most profitable sources of revenue," a Woodstock Institute report noted, quoting American Banker.




Are NSF Fees Legal?
Yes, NSF fees are legal on bounced checks and should not be charged on debit card transactions or ATM withdrawals. The U.S. government doesn't regulate NSF fees or the size of fees but The Truth in Lending Act does require banks to disclose their fees to customers when they open an account.




Can an NSF Fee Be Waived?
Bank policies vary, but an NSF fee can often be waived through an NSF reversal after the fact, especially if it's the first time that it's been assessed. Calling the bank's customer service line and requesting a refund is the best course of action for a consumer.




Do NSF Fees Affect Your Credit?
NSF fees don't affect a customer's credit or credit score directly because banks do not report the transactions to credit bureaus such as Equifax, TransUnion, and Experian.However, a bounced check can make delay a credit card or loan payment which may affect a customer's credit score.




What Happens If I Don't Pay My NSF Fees?
Customers don't have an option to avoid paying NSF fees, as the bank automatically deducts them from the account.


   The Bottom Line  

Non-sufficient funds and the fees they incur are irritating, but are common banking occurrences. Though increasingly the focus of criticism and lawsuits, NSF fees remain legal, but the CFPB helps to protect consumers by monitoring such charges. Customers can avoid fees by monitoring their bank balances or by signing up for overdraft protection.
What Is a Non-Taxable Distribution?  

A non-taxable distribution is a payment to shareholders. It is similar to a dividend, but it represents a share of a company's capital rather than its earnings. Contrary to what the name might imply, it's not really non-taxable. It's just not taxed until the investor sells the stock of the company that issued the distribution. Non-taxable distributions reduce the basis of the stock.



Stock received from a corporate spinoff may be transferred to stockholders as a non-taxable distribution. Dividends paid to cash-value life insurance policyholders are considered non-taxable distributions.



Non-taxable distributions also may be referred to as non-dividend distributions or return of capital distributions.





Key Takeaways

A non-taxable distribution may be a stock dividend, a stock split, or a distribution from a corporate liquidation.A non-taxable distribution is only taxable when you sell the stock of the corporation that issued the distribution.The non-taxable distribution is reported to the IRS as a reduction in the cost basis of the stock.


   Understanding Non-Taxable Distributions  

A non-taxable distribution to shareholders is not paid from the earnings or profits of a company or a mutual fund. It is a return of capital, meaning that investors are getting back some of the money they invested in the company.



Examples of non-taxable distributions include stock dividends, stock splits, stock rights, and distributions received from a partial or complete liquidation of a corporation.



The distribution is a non-taxable event when it is disbursed, but it will be taxable when the stock is sold. Shareholders who receive non-taxable distributions must reduce the cost basis of their stock accordingly. When the shareholder sells the stock, the capital gain or loss that results will be calculated from the adjusted basis.



For example, say an investor purchases 100 shares of a stock for $800. During the tax year, the investor receives a non-taxable distribution of $90 from the company. The cost basis will be adjusted to $710 (the price paid for the shares minus the distribution). The following year, the investor sells the shares for $1,000. For tax purposes, the investor's capital gain is $290 (the $200 profit plus the $90 distribution).



The amount of a non-dividend distribution is usually smaller than the investor’s basis in the shares. In the rare case in which the distribution is more than the basis, the shareholder must reduce their cost basis to zero and report the excess amount of the distribution as a capital gain on IRS Form Schedule D.



For example, assume the investor in the example above receives a total of $890 in non-taxable dividends. The first $800 of the distribution will reduce the cost basis to zero. The remaining $90 must be reported as a short- or long-term capital gain, depending on whether the shares were held for a year or less.



Non-taxable distributions are generally reported in Box 3 of Form 1099-DIV. Return of capital shows up under the “Non-Dividend Distributions” column on the form. The investor may receive this form from the company that paid the dividend. If not, the distribution may be reported as an ordinary dividend. IRS Publication 550 provides detailed information to investors about reporting requirements for investment income, including non-dividend distribution income.
What Is a Non-Traded REIT?  

Non-traded REITs are not listed on public exchanges and can provide retail investors access to inaccessible real estate investments with tax benefits.





Key Takeaways

Non-traded REITs are not listed on public exchanges and can provide retail investors access to inaccessible real estate investments with tax benefits.Despite not being listed, non-traded REITs must still be registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are required to make regular, periodic regulatory filings.Similar to exchange-traded REITs, non-traded REITs are subject to the same IRS requirements that include returning at least 90% of taxable income to shareholders.


   Understanding Non-Traded REITs  

A non-traded REIT is a form of real estate investment method that is designed to reduce or eliminate tax while providing returns on real estate. A non-traded REIT does not trade on a securities exchange and, because of this, is quite illiquid for long periods of time. Front-end fees can be as much as 15%, much higher than a traded REIT due to its limited secondary market.



The expectation of any REIT is that the investor will eventually see income from its real estate portfolio with rent being the most common source of income. The types of properties that a non-traded REIT invests in early on might be unknown to the investors and the initial property acquisitions might be made through a blind pool, where the investors do not know the specific properties that are being added to the program’s portfolio.



Early redemption of a non-traded REIT can result in high fees that can lower the total return. Like exchange-traded REITs, non-traded REITs are subject to the same IRS requirements that include returning at least 90% of taxable income to shareholders. Investors tend to seek exchange-traded and non-traded REITs for their income distribution.



Despite not being listed on any national securities exchanges, non-traded REITs must still be registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). They are also required to make regular, periodic regulatory filings. This includes quarterly and annual reports as well as filing a prospectus.



Non-traded REITs could remain illiquid for years after their inception because they are not traded on national exchanges and may not have a steady income at the beginning. Periodic distributions to shareholders of non-traded REITs may be largely subsidized by borrowed funds. Such distributions are not guaranteed to be paid and may exceed the REIT operating cash flow. The board of directors for the non-traded REIT can decide whether or not to pay distribution and what amount will be given. When a non-traded REIT is just getting started, its earliest distributions might come entirely from the capital the investors put into it.



Many non-traded REITs are structured with a built-in finite time frame before which one of two actions must be taken. At the end of the period, the non-traded REIT must either become listed on a national exchange or must liquidate. The value of the investment made into such a REIT could have decreased or become worthless at the time the program is liquidated.
What Is the Nonaccrual Experience (NAE) Method?  

The Nonaccrual Experience (NAE) Method is an accounting procedure allowed by the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) for handling bad debts.



This method can only be applied to bad debts for services performed in the fields of accounting, actuarial science, architecture, consulting, engineering, health, law, or the performing arts. The company in question also must have average annual gross receipts for any three prior tax years of less than $5 million. More information can be found in IRS Publication 535: Business Expenses.





Key Takeaways

The Nonaccrual Experience (NAE) Method is an accounting standard that accounts for bad or delinquent debts.Under this method, firms don’t have to accrue income that, based on past experience, is not expected to be collected.Instead, bad debts that are likely to remain uncollected can be written off.


   Understanding the Nonaccrual Experience (NAE) Method  

A company incurs a bad debt when it can't collect the money that it is owed. Bad debts that cannot be claimed on the business's tax return using the nonaccrual experience method may be claimed using the specific charge-off method, which is more common. Under NAE the firm can estimate the level of debt that will end up being bad debt based upon their own past experiences with customers and vendors.



A nonaccrual experience method of accounting, as described in SEC rule 448(d) (5), allows certain service providers to exclude from accrual the portion of revenue they have determined will not be collected, based on their own experience and through the use of formulas allowed under this section and the regulations. These service providers must fall under the following categories in the fields of:



AccountingActuarial scienceArchitectureConsultingEngineeringHealthLawThe performing arts.



According to the rule, a taxpayer is eligible to use an NAE method of accounting if the taxpayer uses an accrual method of accounting with respect to amounts received for the performance of services by the taxpayer, is in one of the above-listed service sectors, and earned less than $5 million in gross receipts in any one of the past three tax years.






The matching principle requires that expenses be matched to related revenues in the same accounting period in which the revenue transaction occurs. To comply with GAAP tax rules, bad debt expenses must be estimated using the allowance method in the same period in which the sale occurs.


   Using the Nonaccrual Experience Method  

There are several ways that NAE can be employed. For instance, a taxpayer can request the IRS’s consent to change to a formula that clearly reflects the taxpayer’s experience. This item focuses on the nuances surrounding the adoption of, or change to, the safe harbor NAE methods. Safe harbor refers to an accounting method that avoids legal or tax regulations or one that allows for a simpler method of determining a tax consequence than the methods described by the precise language of the tax code.



In September 2011, the IRS released a revised rule that allowed a safe harbor method for taxpayers accounting for revenues using the NAE method to compute uncollectible revenues by applying a factor of 95% to their allowance for doubtful accounts as determined through the taxpayer’s applicable financial statements.
What Is a Nonaccrual Loan?  

Nonaccrual loan is an accounting term in the lending industry for an unsecured loan that is no longer generating its stated interest rate because no payment has been made by the borrower for 90 days or more. For a lender in business to earn interest, it has become a nonperforming loan (NPL).



Loans generate interest only when the borrower makes a payment, a portion of which is applied to interest and the rest to the principal. The interest on loans is recorded as income by the lender. If no interest has been paid by the customer, the expected interest has not accrued, so the loan has become nonaccrual.



Nonaccrual loans are sometimes referred to as doubtful loans, troubled loans, or sour loans.





Key Takeaways

A lending institution categorizes an unsecured debt as a nonaccrual loan if no payment has been made for 90 days or more.In accounting terms, the expected interest has not accrued to the lender because no interest has been paid by the customer.A borrower can work out a repayment plan to restore the loan to its previous status.


   How a Nonaccrual Loan Works  

When no payment has been received for 90 days, a loan becomes nonaccrual. The bank classifies the loan as substandard and reports the change to the credit reporting agencies, which lowers the borrower's credit score.



The lender also changes its allowance for the potential loan loss, sets aside a reserve to protect the bank's financial interests, and may take legal action against the borrower.



Since regular payment of both principal and interest is expected by the lender, interest income from loans is usually assumed. When a loan becomes nonaccrual, the interest is no longer an assumed payment, so the loan is put on a cash basis. Interest will be recorded as income again only if payment is eventually collected.



According to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), an asset should be reported as being in nonaccrual status if one of three criteria is met:



It is maintained on a cash basis because of a deterioration in the financial condition of the borrower,
Payment in full of principal or interest is not expected, or,
Principal or interest has been in default for 90 days or more—unless the asset is both well-secured and in the process of collection. (A well-secured asset is one that is either backed by collateral—such as a lien, a pledge of real or personal property, securities valuable enough to cover the debt—or guaranteed by a financially responsible third party.)






An unaccrued loan is classified as substandard and the borrower is reported to credit agencies.


   Returning a Loan to Accrual Status  

After entering nonaccrual status, the borrower can usually work with the lender to determine a plan for paying off the debt.



For example, a loan can be returned to accrual status if the borrower pays all the overdue principal, interest, and fees and resumes the regular monthly payments defined in the contract.



If both parties agree, another option involves resuming the scheduled principal and interest payments for six months and providing the lender reasonable reassurance that the outstanding principal, interest, and fees will be paid within a set period of time.



A third option requires the borrower to provide collateral for securing the loan to the lender, repaying the outstanding balance within 30 to 90 days, and resuming monthly payments.


  Troubled Debt Restructuring  

After reviewing the borrower's income and expense status, another option is for the lender to create a troubled debt restructuring (TDR). The TDR may erase part of the loan's principal or interest payments, lower the interest rate, allow interest-only payments, or modify the repayment terms in some other way. Lower debt payments may be accepted until the borrower's financial situation improves.




Can Any Loan Become Nonaccrual?
Lenders can put almost any loan into nonaccrual status if payments are 90 days behind, with the exception of secured loans backed by solid collateral (e.g., a mortgage backed by a house). If a secured loan goes into default, the lending institution can seize the collateral and liquidate it to recover the unpaid balance.




What Are the Requirements for Troubled Debt Restructurings (TDRs)?
The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) lists accounting and reporting requirements for lenders seeking to establish troubled debt restructurings (TDRs) for nonaccrual loans. A borrower in financial difficulties can work with the lender to determine whether a TDR is appropriate in their situation.




What Does Cash-Basis Loan Mean?
Cash basis means that the lending institution has sent the loan into nonaccrual status. Because the lender hasn’t received interest for 90 days or more, they can’t record it as accrued income—they have to record it on a cash basis.
What Is Noncallable?  

Noncallable security is a financial security that cannot be redeemed early by the issuer except with the payment of a penalty. The issuer of a noncallable bond subjects itself to interest rate risk because, at issuance, it locks in the interest rate it will pay until the security matures. If interest rates decline, the issuer must continue paying the higher rate until the security matures.



Most treasury securities and municipal bonds are noncallable.


   Understanding Noncallables  

Preferred shares and corporate bonds have call provisions that are stipulated in the share prospectus or trust indenture at the time of security issuance. A call provision may indicate that a bond is callable or noncallable. Callable security can be redeemed early and pays a premium to compensate the investor for the risk that they will not earn any additional interest in the event that the security is redeemed prior to its maturity date.



Bonds are often “called” when interest rates drop because lower interest rates mean the company can refinance its debt at a lower cost. For example, if prevailing interest rates in the economy decrease to 3%, an existing bond that pays a 4% coupon rate will represent a higher cost of borrowing for the issuing firm.



To reduce its costs, the issuing firm may decide to redeem the existing bonds and reissue them at the lower interest rate. While this move is advantageous to issuers, bond investors are at a disadvantage as they are exposed to reinvestment risk—or simply risk of reinvesting proceeds at a lower interest rate.



A bond may also be noncallable either for the duration of the bond’s life or until a predetermined period of time has passed after initial issuance. A bond that is entirely noncallable cannot be redeemed early by the issuer regardless of the level of interest rates in the market. Noncallable bondholders are protected from income loss that is caused by premature redemption. They are guaranteed regular interest or coupon payments as long as the bond has not matured, which ensures that their interest income and rate of return are predictable.



Bond issuers, however, are at a disadvantage since they may be stuck with paying higher interest payments on a bond and, thus, a higher cost of debt, when interest rates have declined. As a result, noncallable bonds tend to pay investors a lower interest rate than callable bonds. But the risk is lower for the investor, who is assured of receiving the stated interest rate for the duration of the security.


   Special Considerations  

Some callable bonds are noncallable for a set period after they are first issued. This time period is called a call protection period. For example, a trust indenture may stipulate that a 20-year bond may not be called until eight years after its issue date.



The call protection period ensures that bondholders continue to receive interest payments for at least eight years during which time the bonds remain noncallable. After the call protection ends, the noncallable security becomes callable, and the date that an issuer may redeem its bonds is referred to as a first call date. If the issuer redeems its bonds prior to maturity due to more attractive refinancing rates, interest payments will cease to be made to bondholders.



A noncallable bond or preferred share that is redeemed before the maturity date or during the call protection period will incur the payment of a steep penalty.






Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is a Noncancellable Insurance Policy?  

A noncancellable insurance policy is a life or disability insurance policy that an insurance company can’t cancel, increase the premiums on, or reduce the benefits of for as long as the customer pays the premiums.



Noncancellable insurance policies give the policyholder peace of mind that the cost, amount of coverage, and the term is known. They can also be assured that they won’t have to re-qualify for the policy at some point in the future when their health might not be as good and insurance might be harder to get.





Key Takeaways

A noncancellable insurance policy can’t be cancelled, have its premiums raised or benefits cut as long as the customer pays the premiums.When applying for life or disability insurance, seek a policy that is both noncancellable and guaranteed renewable.Even if a policyholder's income falls, under a noncancellable insurance policy the company will pay the total disability benefit originally placed in-force.


   How a Noncancellable Insurance Policy Works  

When applying for life or disability insurance, it is advisable to try to obtain a policy that is both noncancellable and guaranteed renewable. If you buy a policy that is only guaranteed renewable, the insurer must let you keep your policy as long as you pay your premiums, but your premiums could go up. The insurer is allowed to raise the premiums on a guaranteed renewable policy as long as the increase affects numerous policyholders and not just a particular customer.



Avoid purchasing a conditionally-renewable policy, which allows the insurance company to raise your premiums or cancel your coverage if it thinks the risk of insuring you has increased. These policies put you at risk of losing coverage when you need it most and at a time when you may be unable to qualify for a new policy.



Another benefit of a noncancellable insurance policy that applies to disability insurance is that if your income decreases, your coverage will stay the same. If you got laid off from your office job and had to take up another work for lesser pay, you would still be able to keep your insurance with a noncancellable policy.



Most people don't have a guarantee that their income will never go down. Under a noncancellable insurance policy, even if someone's income goes down later in life–if they are totally disabled–the company will pay the total disability benefit originally placed in-force. Under a noncancellable policy, even if someone changes jobs from being a white-collar, low-risk occupation to a professional race car driver, the company cannot change the insured's benefits for the worse. Quite simply, there is no reason to buy an individual disability insurance policy that isn't noncancellable and guaranteed renewable.



However, even a noncancellable and guaranteed renewable policy will eventually expire if it has a fixed term; many policies are designed to cover the policyholder only until age 65. By age 65, many people no longer need life or disability insurance. Because they are retired or near retirement and have saved for many years, they no longer need the financial protection that these products provide.




Why might you want a noncancellable insurance policy?
They offer protection when income changes. Most people don't have a guarantee that their income will never go down. Under a noncancellable insurance policy, even if someone's income goes down later in life–if they are totally disabled–the company will pay the total disability benefit originally placed in-force. With disability insurance, if your income decreases, your coverage will stay the same. If you got laid off from your office job and had to take up another work for lesser pay, you would still be able to keep your insurance with a noncancellable policy.




Why be cautious of conditionally-renewable policies?
Conditionally-renewable policies allow the insurer to raise your premiums or cancel your coverage if it thinks the risk of insuring you has increased. These policies put you at risk of losing coverage when you need it most and at a time when you may be unable to qualify for a new policy.
What Is a Nonce?  

"Nonce" is a portmanteau of "number used only once." It is a four-byte number added to a hashed—or encrypted—block in a blockchain that, when rehashed, meets the difficulty level restrictions. The nonce is the number that blockchain miners are solving for. When the solution is found, the blockchain miner that solves it is given the block reward.



Learn more about the nonce and why it is important to some blockchains.





Key Takeaways

Nonce, a "number only used once," refers to the number a blockchain miner needs to discover before solving for a block in the blockchain.Once the miner solves the hash, they receive the block reward.Miners open new blocks by generating a nonce that makes the hash they create less than the hash from the block they are validating.


   Understanding the Nonce  

A blockchain's security relies on its ability to create and validate long, encrypted numbers, sometimes called a "hash." The cryptographic function used to generate a hash is deterministic, meaning that it will produce the same result each time the same input is used.



It also means that the function can generate a hashed input efficiently. This makes determining the input difficult (leading to the blockchain's security), and small changes to the input result in a different hash. This complex system creates the security net of a blockchain.



To keep the blockchain secure, data from previous blocks are encrypted or “hashed” into a series of numbers that is the block header for the next block. The block header is one of the fields in a block on a blockchain.






Transactions on a blockchain are aggregated into blocks from a memory pool based on the age of the transaction or the amount of fees paid.



The header is metadata, which contains the blockchain version number, the previous block's hash, the Merkel Root, timestamp, the difficulty target, and the nonce. The nonce is the value that miners are trying to solve for.


   How Is the Nonce Used?  

The nonce is used to validate the information contained within a block. The mining program generates a random number, appends it to the hash of the current header, rehashes the value, and compares this to the target hash. If the resulting hash value meets the requirements, the miner has created a solution and is awarded the block. If the value doesn't match the target, the nonce is increased by one, and the process starts again. This continues until one miner meets the target.






Most blocks are opened by mining pools because the mining difficulty is so high a single miner is unlikely to have enough hashing power to keep up, measured in the number of hashes per second that a miner is capable of. A home computer with the latest equipment might have a hashrate of 100 mega hashes per second (6 zeros, or million), where a mining farm full of ASIC miners might hash around 30 exa hashes per second (18 zeros, or quintillion).



It is highly unlikely that the nonce will be guessed on the first try. Miners generally have to test a large number of nonce options before getting it right. The greater the difficulty—a measure of how hard it is to create a hash less than the target—the longer it is likely to take to generate a solution.



Block difficulty is kept the same across the entire network, meaning that all miners have the same chance of figuring out the correct hash. Cryptocurrency networks typically establish a target number of blocks they want to be processed during a specific period and occasionally adjust the difficulty to ensure that this target is met. If the number of blocks processed does not meet this target, the difficulty will be reduced, with the reduction in difficulty set to how much time the process was over the limit.




What Does Nonce Stand for?
In cryptocurrency, a nonce is an abbreviation for "number only used once," which is a number added to a hashed—or encrypted—block in a blockchain that, when rehashed, meets the difficulty level restrictions. The nonce is the number that blockchain miners are solving to receive the block reward.




What Is a Blockchain Nonce?
A blockchain nonce is a number added to a hashed—or encrypted—block in a blockchain.




How Are Nonces Used?
In cryptocurrency, nonces are used as the number that is used in a hash to verify the transactions and other data contained in a block.
What Is a Nonconforming Mortgage?  

A nonconforming mortgage is a mortgage that does not meet the guidelines of government-sponsored enterprises (GSE) such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and, therefore, cannot be sold to them. GSE guidelines consist of a maximum loan amount, suitable properties, down payment requirements, and credit requirements, among other factors.



A nonconforming mortgage may be contrasted with a conforming mortgage.





Key Takeaways

A nonconforming mortgage is a home loan that does not adhere to government-sponsored enterprises (GSE) guidelines and, therefore, cannot be resold to agencies such as Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac.These loans often carry higher interest rates than conforming mortgages.Mortgages that exceed the conforming loan limit are classified as nonconforming, and are called jumbo mortgages.Other than the loan size, mortgages may become nonconforming based on a borrower’s loan-to-value ratio (down payment size), debt-to-income ratio, credit score and history, and documentation requirements.


   Understanding Nonconforming Mortgages  

Nonconforming mortgages are not bad loans in the sense that they are risky or overly complex. Financial institutions dislike them because they do not conform to GSE guidelines and, as a result, are harder to sell. For this reason, banks will usually command a higher interest rate on a nonconforming loan. 



Although private banks initially write most mortgages, they often end up in the portfolios of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. These two GSEs buy loans from banks and then package them into mortgage-backed securities (MBS) which sell on the secondary market. An MBS is a type of asset-backed security (ABS) secured by a collection of mortgages that originated from a regulated and authorized financial institution. While there are private financial companies who will buy, package, and resell an MBS, Fannie and Freddie are the two largest purchasers.



Banks use the money from the sales of mortgages to invest in offering new loans, at the current interest rate. But Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac can’t buy just any mortgage product. The two GSEs have federal rules limits to buying loans that are deemed relatively risk-free. These loans are conforming mortgages, and banks like them precisely because they will readily sell.



By contrast, mortgages that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac cannot buy are inherently riskier for banks to write. These difficult-to-sell loans must either stay in the bank’s portfolio or be sold to entities specializing in the secondary market for nonconforming loans.


   Types of Nonconforming Mortgages  

There are various borrower situations and types of loans that Fannie and Freddie deem as nonconforming. 



The most common nonconforming mortgage is what’s often called a jumbo mortgage—loans written for an amount more substantial than the Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac limits. In 2022, that limit in most U.S. counties is $647,200, but in some high-cost areas, such as New York City or San Francisco, it can be as high as $970,800.



Mortgages don’t have to be jumbo to be nonconforming. A low down payment can trigger nonconforming status, too. The threshold varies but could be 10% on a conventional mortgage or as little as 3% on a Federal Housing Administration (FHA) loan.





Important

Upfront fees on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac home loans changed in May 2023. Fees were increased for homebuyers with higher credit scores, such as 740 or higher, while they were decreased for homebuyers with lower credit scores, such as those below 640. Another change: Your down payment will influence what your fee is. The higher your down payment, the lower your fees, though it will still depend on your credit score. Fannie Mae provides the Loan-Level Price Adjustments on its website.



Also, a factor is the buyer’s debt-to-income ratio (DTI), which typically must not exceed 43% to qualify as a conforming loan. A credit score of or above 660 is usually required as well.



The type of property can also determine if a mortgage is nonconforming. For example, buyers of condos often get tripped up when they learn their dream vacation unit is nonconforming because the complex is considered non-warrantable. That includes condo associations where a single entity, such as the developer, owns more than 10% of the units. Other pitfalls include if a majority of the units are not owner-occupied, if more than 25% of the square footage is commercial, or if the homeowners association (HOA) is in litigation.
What Is Noncumulative?  

The term "noncumulative" describes a type of preferred stock that does not pay stockholders any unpaid or omitted dividends. Preferred stock shares are issued with pre-established dividend rates, which may either be stated as a dollar amount or as a percentage of the par value. If the corporation chooses not to pay dividends in a given year, investors forfeit the right to claim any of the unpaid dividends in the future.





Key Takeaways

Noncumulative stock does not pay unpaid or omitted dividends.Cumulative stock entitles investors to missed dividends.Cumulative preferred stock is more attractive to investors than noncumulative.


   Understanding Noncumulative  

Noncumulative describes a type of preferred stock that does not entitle investors to reap any missed dividends. By contrast, "cumulative" indicates a class of preferred stock that indeed entitles an investor to dividends that were missed.


   The Differences Between Common and Preferred Stock  

Companies either issue common, preferred stock, or both. Preferred stock ranks ahead of common shares in getting something back if the company declares bankruptcy and sells off its assets. More importantly, preferred stocks are issued with stated dividend rates. If a company is profitable, preferred shareholders collect dividends before common stockholders.



On the flip side, preferred stocks trade more like bonds, and thus don't benefit much if the company experiences massive growth. Common shareholders reap those benefits. Common shareholders get voting rights, while preferred share holders typically don't.


   Convertible Bonds and Preferred Stock  

Corporate bonds may be issued with a conversion feature, enabling those bonds to be converted into a specific number of shares of either common stock or preferred stock. This conversion option lets bondholders convert a debt investment into stock. For example, let's assume an investor owns a $1,000 par amount corporate bond that can be converted into 20 shares of preferred stock.



Let's further assume that the bond's market value is $1,050, while the stock is selling at $60 per share. If the investor converted their holding into preferred stock, they would own securities with a total market value of $1,200, compared with a $1,050 bond. If the investor's goal is to earn income, he may keep the bond and elect not to convert. By contrast, an investor who is interested in some growth may opt to convert his bond holdings into equities. This investor will want to compare the rates offered on the bond and preferred stock.






Most companies are reluctant to issue noncumulative stocks because shrewd investors are unlikely to buy this class of shares—unless they're offered at significant discounts.


   Example of How a Noncumulative Preferred Stock Works  

Investors who own cumulative preferred shares are entitled to any missed or omitted dividends. For example, if ABC Company fails to pay the $1.10 annual dividend to its cumulative preferred stockholders, those investors have the right to collect that income at some future date. This essentially means cumulative preferred stockholders will receive all of their missed dividends before holders of common stock receive any dividends, should the company begin paying dividends again.



If the preferred shares are noncumulative, the shareholders never receive the missed dividend of $1.10. This is why cumulative preferred shares are more valuable than noncumulative preferred shares.
What Are Noncurrent Assets?  

Noncurrent assets are a company's long-term investments for which the full value will not be realized within the accounting year. They are typically highly illiquid, meaning these assets cannot easily be converted into cash. Examples of noncurrent assets include investments, intellectual property, real estate, and equipment. Noncurrent assets appear on a company's balance sheet.





Key Takeaways

Noncurrent assets are a company's long-term investments that are not easily converted to cash or are not expected to become cash within an accounting year.Also known as long-term assets, their costs are allocated over the number of years the asset is used and appear on a company’s balance sheet.Noncurrent assets fall under three major categories: tangible assets, intangible assets, and natural resources.Examples of noncurrent assets include investments, intellectual property, real estate, and equipment.












Investopedia / Ellen Lindner


   Understanding Noncurrent Assets  

A company's assets are divided into two categories: noncurrent and current assets, which appear on a company's balance sheet. Noncurrent assets, also referred to as long-term assets, are capitalized rather than expensed. This means that the company allocates the cost of the asset over the number of years for which the asset will be in use instead of allocating the entire cost to the accounting year in which the asset was purchased. Depending on the type of asset, it may be depreciated, amortized, or depleted.



The assets section of the balance sheet is segmented according to the type of asset. The leading section is "current assets," which are short-term assets that can be converted into cash within one year or one operating cycle. Current assets include items such as cash, accounts receivable, and inventory. Noncurrent assets are always classified on the balance sheet under one of the following headings:



Investments
Property, plant, and equipment
Intangible assets
Other assets



Property, plant, and equipment—which may also be called fixed assets—encompass land, buildings, and machinery (including vehicles).






Investments are classified as noncurrent only if they are not expected to turn into unrestricted cash within the next 12 months of the balance sheet date.



Noncurrent assets fall under three major categories: tangible assets, intangible assets, and natural resources. Noncurrent assets, whether tangible, non-tangible, or natural resources, will benefit the company for more than one year. They differ from current assets, which can be conveniently sold, used, or exhausted through standard business operations within a year, such as inventory and accounts receivable.



Tangible Assets: Tangible assets are typically physical assets or property owned by a company, such as real estate and equipment. They are the main type of assets that companies use to produce their products and services.Intangible Assets: Intangible assets are goods that have no physical presence. Although they may be created, such as a patent, intangible assets can also arise from the sale or purchase of business units.Natural Resources: Natural resources are assets that come from the earth. Examples of natural resources include fossil fuels and timber.


   Examples of Noncurrent Assets  

Examples of noncurrent assets include fixed assets like property and equipment. Long-term investments such as bonds or real estate, or investments made in other companies are also common noncurrent assets. Trademarks, client lists, and the goodwill acquired in a merger or acquisition, are all considered intangible long-term assets.﻿﻿



It is not uncommon for capital-intensive industries to have a large portion of their asset base composed of noncurrent assets. An example of such a company is an oil refinery. Conversely, service businesses may require minimal to no use of fixed assets. While a high proportion of noncurrent assets to current assets may indicate poor liquidity, this may also simply be a function of the respective company’s industry.﻿﻿



Other noncurrent assets include the cash surrender value of life insurance. A bond sinking fund established for the future repayment of debt is classified as a noncurrent asset. Some deferred income taxes, and unamortized bond issue costs are noncurrent assets as well.﻿﻿



Prepaid assets may be classified as noncurrent assets if the future benefit is not to be received within one year. For example, if rent is prepaid for the next 24 months, 12 months is considered a current asset as the benefit will be used within the year. The other 12 months are considered noncurrent as the benefit will not be received until the following year.﻿﻿




What Are the Different Types of Noncurrent Assets?
Noncurrent assets fall under three major categories: tangible assets, intangible assets, and natural resources. Tangible assets are typically physical assets or property owned by a company, such as real estate and equipment. Intangible assets are goods that have no physical presence, like patents. Natural resources are assets that come from the earth, such as fossil fuels and timber.




How Are Noncurrent Assets Accounted For?
Noncurrent assets are capitalized rather than expensed. This means that the company allocates the cost of the asset over the number of years for which the asset will be in use instead of allocating the entire cost to the accounting year in which the asset was purchased. Depending on the type of asset, it may be depreciated, amortized, or depleted. They appear on a company's balance sheet under the following categories: investment; property, plant, and equipment (PP&E); intangible assets; or other assets.




What Is the Difference Between Current and Noncurrent Assets?
Current assets are considered short-term assets because they generally are convertible to cash within a firm's fiscal year, and are the resources that a company needs to run its day-to-day operations. Typically, they are reported on the balance sheet at their current or market price. Noncurrent assets can be viewed as investments required for the long-term needs of a business for which the full value will not be realized within the accounting year. They are typically highly illiquid, meaning these assets cannot easily be converted into cash and are capitalized for accounting purposes.
What Are Noncurrent Liabilities?  

Noncurrent liabilities, also called long-term liabilities or long-term debts, are long-term financial obligations listed on a company’s balance sheet. These liabilities have obligations that become due beyond twelve months in the future, as opposed to current liabilities which are short-term debts with maturity dates within the following twelve month period.





Key Takeaways

Noncurrent liabilities, also known as long-term liabilities, are obligations listed on the balance sheet not due for more than a year.Various ratios using noncurrent liabilities are used to assess a company’s leverage, such as debt-to-assets and debt-to-capital.Examples of noncurrent liabilities include long-term loans and lease obligations, bonds payable and deferred revenue.












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   Understanding Noncurrent Liabilities  

Noncurrent liabilities are compared to cash flow, to see if a company will be able to meet its financial obligations in the long-term. While lenders are primarily concerned with short-term liquidity and the amount of current liabilities, long-term investors use noncurrent liabilities to gauge whether a company is using excessive leverage. The more stable a company’s cash flows, the more debt it can support without increasing its default risk.





Important

While current liabilities assess liquidity, noncurrent liabilities help assess solvency.



Investors and creditors use numerous financial ratios to assess liquidity risk and leverage. The debt ratio compares a company's total debt to total assets, to provide a general idea of how leveraged it is. The lower the percentage, the less leverage a company is using and the stronger its equity position. The higher the ratio, the more financial risk a company is taking on. Other variants are the long term debt to total assets ratio and the long-term debt to capitalization ratio, which divides noncurrent liabilities by the amount of capital available.



Analysts also use coverage ratios to assess a company’s financial health, including the cash flow-to-debt and the interest coverage ratio. The cash flow-to-debt ratio determines how long it would take a company to repay its debt if it devoted all of its cash flow to debt repayment. The interest coverage ratio, which is calculated by dividing a company's earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) by its debt interest payments for the same period, gauges whether enough income is being generated to cover interest payments. To assess short-term liquidity risk, analysts look at liquidity ratios like the current ratio, the quick ratio, and the acid test ratio.


   Examples of Noncurrent Liabilities  

Noncurrent liabilities include debentures, long-term loans, bonds payable, deferred tax liabilities, long-term lease obligations, and pension benefit obligations. The portion of a bond liability that will not be paid within the upcoming year is classified as a noncurrent liability. Warranties covering more than a one-year period are also recorded as noncurrent liabilities. Other examples include deferred compensation, deferred revenue, and certain health care liabilities.



Mortgages, car payments, or other loans for machinery, equipment, or land are all long-term debts, except for the payments to be made in the subsequent twelve months which are classified as the current portion of long-term debt. Debt that is due within twelve months may also be reported as a noncurrent liability if there is an intent to refinance this debt with a financial arrangement in the process to restructure the obligation to a noncurrent nature.
What Is a Nonelective Contribution?  

Nonelective contributions are funds employers choose to direct toward their eligible workers' employer-sponsored retirement plans regardless if employees make their own contributions. These contributions come directly from the employer and are not deducted from employees' salaries. 



This distinction separates a nonelective contribution from a matching contribution, which an employer makes depending on how much money is deducted from an employee's salary and directed into their employer-sponsored retirement plan. 





Key Takeaways

Nonelective contributions are employer contributions to an employee's retirement plan, regardless of the employee's contribution.Nonelective contributions benefit employees since they can save more for retirement than they could do by themselves.Nonelective contributions are issued at the discretion of the employer and can change at any time.Contributions of this type can gain an employer IRS "safe harbor" protections.


   Understanding Nonelective Contributions  

Nonelective contributions can vary. For example, a company can choose to contribute 3% of each employee's salary toward their employer-sponsored retirement plan. If an employee earns $50,000 per year, the employer would be contributing $1,500 per year.



Employers are free to change the contribution rates as they see fit for their organizations. However, nonelective contributions can not exceed the annual contribution limits set by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The total annual amount that can be contributed to a defined-contribution plan, such as a 401(k) in 2020 is $57,000, while in 2021, the limit is $58,000.﻿﻿


   Advantages of Nonelective Contributions  

There are advantages to an employer by making nonelective contributions. Nonelective contributions are tax-deductible, and they can encourage more employees to participate in the company's retirement plan. The decision to offer fully-vested nonelective contributions can also provide retirement plans with Safe Harbor protection, which exempts plans from government-mandated nondiscrimination testing.



The IRS administers these tests to make sure plans are designed to benefit all employees instead of favoring highly-compensated ones. Making nonelective contributions can help employers meet this goal while also remaining compliant with government rules.



To be granted safe harbor by the IRS, employers' nonelective contributions must be at least 3%. Before the end of the plan year, a company can decide to elect Safe Harbor provisions like making nonelective contributions for the following year. They can also decide to elect Safe Harbor provisions for the year generally 30 days before the end of the plan year.


   Disadvantages of Nonelective Contributions  

Offering nonelective contributions could come with additional administrative costs, and it may not be feasible for all employers. Making nonelective contributions also means flowing money into default funds for employees who don't manually enroll in a plan and select a fund or make contributions. As fiduciary plan sponsors, employers would need to take due-diligence in selecting these funds.



To make this simpler, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 outlined its qualified default investment alternatives (QDIAs) and how employers can enroll workers in these funds while gaining Safe Harbor protection. QDIAs are defined as target-date funds (TDFs) or lifecycle funds, balanced funds, and professionally managed accounts.



However, a TDF should not be viewed as a definitive option that would meet the needs of all employees. Employers still need to take a thorough look at their workforce to determine appropriate plan menu funds and QDIAs to remain compliant with government regulations and to help employees secure a comfortable retirement.
What Is Nonfeasance?  

Nonfeasance is a legal concept that refers to the willful failure to execute or perform an act or duty required by one’s position, office, or law whereby that neglect results in harm or damage to a person or property. The perpetrator can be found liable and subject to prosecution.



Nonfeasance differs from malfeasance, which is a willfully harmful act, or misfeasance, which is performing one's duty incorrectly.





Key Takeaways

Nonfeasance is the willful absence of action to help prevent harm or damage from occurring.Nonfeasance may or may not be illegal in and of itself; however, employers have the legal right to terminate an employee or contractor for nonfeasance.Financial nonfeasance involves a failure to act by a fiduciary or financial representative on behalf of a client, for instance by failing to input a trade a broker has been given by a customer.


   Understanding Nonfeasance  

While nonfeasance—the absence of action to help prevent harm or damage—was not originally subject to the penalty of law, legal reforms evolved to make it possible for courts to use the term to describe inaction which assigns liability. In some jurisdictions, nonfeasance carries stiff criminal penalties. At a minimum, it can lead to a notice of termination.



In order for intentional inaction to be considered nonfeasance, it must meet three criteria. They are:



The individual who did not act was the one who would have been reasonably expected to act;That individual did not perform the expected action; andThrough inaction, that individual caused harm.



For example, if a daycare provider is employed to supervise children and fails to prevent a child from climbing out on a window ledge from which the child falls, the daycare provider could be found liable for nonfeasance because it was their contracted duty to watch and protect the child from harm, and they failed to take action when necessary.


   Financial Nonfeasance  

When a corporate director, real estate agent, financial advisor, or another individual with a fiduciary duty breaches that duty through willful and intentional inaction, nonfeasance can be said to have taken place. For example, when a real estate agent accepts an earnest money check from a client but fails to deposit that check, causing the deal to fall through, the realtor might be held liable for nonfeasance, and not a more serious offense, as long as the funds weren’t misused and the agent had no inappropriate motive.



Similarly, a corporate director might be held liable for nonfeasance if they fail to maintain an active role in the business and monitor corporate affairs, such that their inaction causes harm to the business.


   Related Legal Terms  

Nonfeasance is different from malfeasance, which refers to the willful, intentional undertaking of an illegal or wrongful act that harms another party. It also differs from misfeasance, which is the willful, intentional performance of an inappropriate or incorrect action or the willful giving of incorrect or inappropriate advice. All three terms fall under the umbrella of misconduct in public office.
What Is a Nonfinancial Asset?  

A nonfinancial asset is an asset that derives its value from its physical traits. Examples include real estate and vehicles. It also includes all intellectual property, such as patents and trademarks. The classification of possessions as nonfinancial assets is important to businesses as these items appear on a company's balance sheet and determine a multitude of factors, such as a company's market value and debt profile.





Key Takeaways

A nonfinancial asset is determined by the value of its physical traits and includes items such as real estate and factory equipment.Intellectual property, such as patents, are also considered nonfinancial assets.Nonfinancial assets play an important role in determining a company's market value and ability to borrow.Financial assets, such as stocks, are the opposite of nonfinancial assets. They are easier to value and more liquid.


   Understanding a Nonfinancial Asset  

On a company's balance sheet, nonfinancial assets stand in contrast to financial assets. Financial assets are based on a contractual claim rather than a physical net worth. Financial assets include stocks, bonds, and bank deposits and are generally easier to sell than nonfinancial assets.



The value of a financial asset can be based on the value of an underlying nonfinancial asset. For example, the value of a futures contract is based on the value of the commodities controlled by that contract. Commodities are tangible objects with inherent value, such as coffee or soybeans, while futures contracts, which do not have an inherent physical value, are an example of a financial asset.


   Nonfinancial Assets vs. Financial Assets  

Nonfinancial and financial assets differ based on how the assets are bought and sold. Many financial assets, such as stocks and bonds, will trade on exchanges and can be bought and sold on any business day that the exchange is open. It is easy to get the current market price to buy or sell these assets. As long as the market is liquid, there will be a buyer for every seller and vice versa.



On the other hand, a nonfinancial asset, such as a piece of equipment or a vehicle, can be challenging to sell because there is not an active market of buyers and sellers. The pricing of the nonfinancial item may be foggy as there is no market standard. Instead, many nonfinancial assets are sold when the seller finds a potential buyer and negotiates a sale price. The time it takes to find a buyer, make the sale, and distribute the physical asset, make nonfinancial assets illiquid.


   Nonfinancial Assets as Collateral  

Both financial and nonfinancial assets may be used as collateral to back secured debt, standing in contrast to unsecured debt, which is only backed by the borrower's ability to pay. One factor that makes a form of collateral more attractive to the lender is the ability to quickly sell the asset if the borrower fails to make principal or interest payments. A financial asset that trades on an exchange, like a stock or bond, is easier to sell than a nonfinancial asset, so a financial asset is more attractive to a lender as collateral.



Assume, for example, that XYZ manufacturing needs a $100,000 line of credit to operate the business, and they put up $60,000 in investment securities and a $40,000 piece of equipment as collateral for the loan. If XYZ does not make principal and interest payments on the loan and defaults, the lender can sell the $60,000 in financial assets quickly to cover the loss. Finding a buyer for the equipment, however, may take longer, so the nonfinancial asset is less attractive as collateral.
What Is a Nonforfeiture Clause?  

A nonforfeiture clause is an insurance policy clause stipulating that an insured party can receive full or partial benefits or a partial refund of premiums after a lapse due to nonpayment.



Standard life insurance and long-term care insurance may have nonforfeiture clauses. The clause may involve returning some portion of the total premiums paid, the cash surrender value of the policy, or a reduced benefit based upon premiums paid before the policy lapses.





Key Takeaways

A nonforfeiture clause is an insurance policy clause stipulating that an insured party can receive full or partial benefits or a partial refund of premiums after a lapse due to non-payment.Permanent life insurance, long-term disability, and long-term care insurance policies may have nonforfeiture clauses.For traditional whole-life policies, the policyholder decides how they would like to access the policy’s cash value.


   How a Nonforfeiture Clause Works  

When the owner of whole-life insurance policy surrenders the policy, they have several nonforfeiture options. The insurance company guarantees a minimum cash value for the insurance policy after a specific period, typically three years from when the policy starts.



For traditional whole-life policies, the owner decides which of four ways (see below) they would like to access the policy’s cash value. There are no guarantees for the minimum amount of life insurance available in variable and universal life policies, which allow for variable investing. Also, the amount of reduced paid-up or extended-term insurance may decrease if a policy’s sub-account performance is poor or credited interest rates are low.






Life insurance policyholders can select one of four nonforfeiture benefit options: the cash surrender value, extended term insurance, loan value, and paid-up insurance.



In permanent life insurance policies, if you fail to pay the premiums in the grace period, you won't lose your life insurance. Instead, you can access your accumulated cash value with the following options:



Terminate your policy and get the cash surrender value in cash
Reduce your coverage for the remaining term of the policy and pay no future premiums. (i.e., paid-up policy)
Buy an extended-term insurance policy with the remaining cash surrender value (no further premiums required)
Use your accumulated cash value to pay the future premiums (also referred to as an automatic premium loan)



If the policyholder does not make a selection, the terms of the policy will generally stipulate which option would go into effect if the policy lapses or is surrendered.


   Payout Options Under a Nonforfeiture Clause  

After surrendering a whole-life insurance policy, the death benefit on that policy no longer exists. Before issuing payment to the policy owner, outstanding loan amounts are satisfied with the cash value.






Some companies offer an annuity option in the nonforfeiture clause. The remaining cash value may be used to purchase an annuity free of commissions or expenses. Annuities pay regular payments as outlined in the contract.


  Cash Surrender Value  

With the cash surrender value option, the policy owner terminates the policy and receives the remaining cash value within six months. Cash surrender value applies to the savings element of whole life insurance policies payable before death. However, during the early years of a whole life insurance policy, the savings portion brings little return compared to the premiums paid.



Cash surrender value is the accumulated portion of a permanent life insurance policy's cash value that is available to the policyholder upon surrender of the policy.



Depending on the age of the policy, the cash surrender value could be less than the actual cash value. In the early years of a policy, life insurance companies can deduct fees upon cash surrender.


  Paid-Up Policy  

With the paid-up policy option, you can use your cash surrender value to buy a paid-up version of the same type of life insurance policy so you would no longer have to make premium payments.



However, surrendering a portion of the cash value reduces the death benefit. The policy would retain a cash value component, but it would grow at a reduced rate.


  Extended-Term Insurance  

Choosing the nonforfeiture extended term option allows the policy owner to use the cash value to purchase a term insurance policy with a death benefit equal to that of the original whole-life policy. The policy is calculated from the insured’s attained age. The term policy ends after a fixed number of years as detailed in the policy’s nonforfeiture table. For some companies, this option may be automatic when surrendering a whole life insurance policy.



Extended-term insurance allows a policyholder to stop paying the premiums, but not forfeit the equity of their policy. The amount of cash value you will have built-in your policy will be reduced by the amount of any loans against your life insurance.






Extended-term insurance is often the default non-forfeiture option. With extended-term insurance, the face amount of the policy stays the same, but it is flipped to an extended-term insurance policy. Meanwhile, the equity you built is used to purchase a term policy that equals the number of years you paid premiums.



For example, if you purchase a policy when you were 20 and you paid until age 55, you would receive a term policy that is less than 35 years. Or if you were 35 when you purchased your policy and you paid until you were 45, you would receive a term policy less than 10 years.


  Policy Loans  

Unlike conventional loans, policy loans don't necessarily need to be paid back. However, any money you take out will be deducted from the death benefit that goes to your beneficiaries. 



Just like with a conventional loan, you’ll be charged interest that could range from 5% to 9% on the loan. Unpaid interest will be added to your loan amount and will be subject to compounding.




Why do nonforfeiture clauses exist?
Nonforfeiture clauses offer protection in the event a policyholder stops paying their premium. Sometimes, a policy expires after a so-called grace period. If cash has accumulated in the policy, state law forbids companies from keeping it and cancelling the policy.




What is an Extended Term Option?
With the extended term option, you can choose to use the cash value in a whole life insurance policy to term insurance, allowing you to stop paying premiums. The death benefit would be equal to the benefit in the original whole life insurance policy.




What's cash surrender value?
Cash surrender value applies to the savings element of whole life insurance policies. This value is payable before death. Overall, it's the accumulated portion of a permanent life insurance policy's cash value that is available to the policyholder upon surrender of the policy. Depending on the age of the policy, the cash surrender value could be less than the actual cash value.


   The Bottom Line  

Understanding your choices with a nonforfeiture clause can help you determine which option is best for your financial situation and goals, whether its an extended term policy, cash surrender value, or another option. Consider consulting a financial advisor who can guide you on choosing an option that will best fit your circumstances.
What Is a Noninterest Expense?  

A noninterest expense is an operating expense of a bank or financial institution that is classified separately from interest expense and provision for credit losses. Examples of noninterest expenses include:



Employee salaries, bonuses, and benefits
Equipment rental or leasing
Information technology (IT) costs
Rent, telecommunication services, taxes, professional services, and marketing
The amortization of intangibles





Key Takeaways

Noninterest expenses are the fixed operating costs of a bank (e.g., salaries and rent).Noninterest expenses are offset by service fees such as fee income from loan originations, late charges on loans, annual fees, and credit facility fees.Noninterest expenses are typically higher for investment banks than commercial banks (even though they might appear lower) because trading, asset management, and capital markets advisory services are costly.


   Understanding Noninterest Expenses  

A bank has two main buckets of expenses: interest and noninterest. Interest expenses are incurred from deposits, short-term and long-term loans, and trading account liabilities. A noninterest expense is an expense other than interest payments on deposits and bonds. These expenses are often operational expenses incurred in the daily running of the bank.






A noninterest expense in the case of a bank for a financial institution represents an expense that is not directly associated with attracting and keeping a depositor's funds.


  The Main Components of Noninterest Expenses  

Noninterest expenses are sizeable, and a bank must manage them carefully to maximize profits. Otherwise, excessive noninterest expenses will directly impact the bottom line.



Noninterest expenses represent the operating expenses of the bank, the majority of which are personnel costs. Occupancy and IT costs are also material cost components, as are professional fees, particularly for legal services to negotiate settlements for past, ongoing, and future fraudulent activities affecting the bank.



In aggregate, the noninterest expense is considered a bank overhead and is used to calculate the overhead ratio of the bank for trend analysis and cross-comparisons with peers. Noninterest expense divided by average assets is the overhead ratio. When an overhead ratio becomes unacceptably high for a prolonged period, a bank will typically address personnel costs first because human capital costs account for most of the noninterest expense.






Shareholders in recent years have paid more attention to executive compensation to ensure that managers are not receiving unwarranted pay. Shareholders generally favor competitive compensation but want to see that overall personnel costs are within a reasonable range.


   Noninterest Expenses by Bank Type  

Noninterest expenses are typically higher for investment banks than commercial banks, but this can be hidden behind the numbers—it depends on the number of employees and their compensation. For example, investment banks rely more on trading, asset management, and capital markets advisory services, which all require higher employee compensation levels and fewer employees. On the other hand, lending activities by a commercial bank do not call for Wall Street compensation levels, and the market the bank serves calls for more employees.



Wells Fargo has about 247,000 employees, while Morgan Stanley has about 60,000. In 2021, Morgan Stanley's noninterest expenses composed 66% of revenues. Compensation alone made up approximately 38% of revenues.



For Wells Fargo, total noninterest expenses and employee costs accounted for 69% and 45% of revenues, respectively. Personnel costs as part of revenues are within a few percent of each other, but this is likely due to the difference in employee counts and compensation levels.




What Is the Largest Noninterest Expense for a Bank?
It might vary by bank or institution, but personnel costs generally make up the most significant portion of noninterest expenses. For instance, Wells Fargo's personnel costs for 2021 were 45% of its revenues—$35.5 billion in noninterest expenses out of $78.5 billion in revenues.




What Is Noninterest Income For Banks?
Noninterest income is income generated by sources that do not create interest. For example, this could be fees, commissions, investment gains, and other operational income.




How Do You Calculate Noninterest Income?
Noninterest income is generally calculated per instrument or service. For instance, if a bank loaned an amount to a customer with an origination fee of $500 and service charges of $100, the noninterest income for the loan is $600, while the interest income from the loan is not counted.


   The Bottom Line  

Noninterest expenses are the portion of a bank's expenses that are not funds paid to customers or other banks in the form of interest. For example, purchasing equipment, contracting professional services, wages and salaries, and advertising are all noninterest expenses.



Banks need to distinguish between interest and noninterest expenses because they are fixed operating costs, whereas interest expenses are not. Creating transparency by separating the two allows interesting parties to understand a bank's expenses better and lets it manage its finances to maximize profits.
Nonlinear regression is a form of regression analysis in which data is fit to a model and then expressed as a mathematical function. Simple linear regression relates two variables (X and Y) with a straight line (y = mx + b), while nonlinear regression relates the two variables in a nonlinear (curved) relationship.



The goal of the model is to make the sum of the squares as small as possible.  The sum of squares is a measure that tracks how far the Y observations vary from the nonlinear (curved) function that is used to predict Y.



It is computed by first finding the difference between the fitted nonlinear function and every Y point of data in the set. Then, each of those differences is squared. Lastly, all of the squared figures are added together. The smaller the sum of these squared figures, the better the function fits the data points in the set. Nonlinear regression uses logarithmic functions, trigonometric functions, exponential functions, power functions, Lorenz curves, Gaussian functions, and other fitting methods.





Key Takeaways

Both linear and nonlinear regression predict Y responses from an X variable (or variables).Nonlinear regression is a curved function of an X variable (or variables) that is used to predict a Y variableNonlinear regression can show a prediction of population growth over time.



Nonlinear regression modeling is similar to linear regression modeling in that both seek to track a particular response from a set of variables graphically. Nonlinear models are more complicated than linear models to develop because the function is created through a series of approximations (iterations) that may stem from trial-and-error. Mathematicians use several established methods, such as the Gauss-Newton method and the Levenberg-Marquardt method.



Often, regression models that appear nonlinear upon first glance are actually linear. The curve estimation procedure can be used to identify the nature of the functional relationships at play in your data, so you can choose the correct regression model, whether linear or nonlinear. Linear regression models, while they typically form a straight line, can also form curves, depending on the form of the linear regression equation. Likewise, it’s possible to use algebra to transform a nonlinear equation so that it mimics a linear equation—such a nonlinear equation is referred to as “intrinsically linear.”






Linear regression relates two variables with a straight line; nonlinear regression relates the variables using a curve.


   Example of Nonlinear Regression  

One example of how nonlinear regression can be used is to predict population growth over time. A scatterplot of changing population data over time shows that there seems to be a relationship between time and population growth, but that it is a nonlinear relationship, requiring the use of a nonlinear regression model. A logistic population growth model can provide estimates of the population for periods that were not measured, and predictions of future population growth.



Independent and dependent variables used in nonlinear regression should be quantitative. Categorical variables, like region of residence or religion, should be coded as binary variables or other types of quantitative variables.



In order to obtain accurate results from the nonlinear regression model, you should make sure the function you specify describes the relationship between the independent and dependent variables accurately. Good starting values are also necessary. Poor starting values may result in a model that fails to converge, or a solution that is only optimal locally, rather than globally, even if you’ve specified the right functional form for the model.
What Is Nonlinearity?  

Nonlinearity is a term used in statistics to describe a situation where there is not a straight-line or direct relationship between an independent variable and a dependent variable. In a nonlinear relationship, changes in the output do not change in direct proportion to changes in any of the inputs.



While a linear relationship creates a straight line when plotted on a graph, a nonlinear relationship does not create a straight line but instead creates a curve. Some investments, such as options, exhibit high levels of nonlinearity and require investors to pay special attention to the numerous variables that could impact their return on investment (ROI).





Key Takeaways

Nonlinearity is a mathematical term describing a situation where the relationship between an independent variable and a dependent variable is not predictable from a straight line.Certain investment classes, such as options, show a high degree of nonlinearity, which may make these investments seem more chaotic.Investors of asset classes that exhibit a high level of nonlinearity will often use sophisticated modeling techniques to estimate the amount of potential loss or gain their investment might incur over a specified time.


   Understanding Nonlinearity  

Nonlinearity is a common issue when examining cause and effect relationships. Such instances require complex modeling and hypothesis testing to offer explanations of nonlinear events. Nonlinearity without explanation can lead to random, erratic outcomes.



In investing, we can see examples of nonlinearity in certain investment classes. Options, for example, are nonlinear derivatives because changes in the input variables associated with options do not result in proportional changes in output. Investments with high nonlinearity may appear more chaotic or unpredictable.



Investors who include nonlinear derivatives in their portfolio will need to use different pricing simulations to estimate the risk profile of their investments than they would for linear assets such as shares of stock or futures contracts. For instance, options traders will look to their "Greeks" such as the delta, gamma, and theta. These assessments can help investors manage their risk and help time the entry and exit points of their trades.


   Nonlinearity vs. Linearity  

In contrast to a nonlinear relationship, a linear relationship refers to a situation where there is a direct correlation between an independent variable and a dependent variable. A change affecting an independent variable will produce a corresponding change in the dependent variable. When plotted on a graph, this linear relationship between independent and dependent variables will create a straight line.



For example, let's suppose management at a shoe factory decides to increase its workforce (the independent variable in this scenario) by 10%. If the company's workforce and production (the dependent variable) have a particular linear relationship, then management should expect to see a corresponding 10% increase in the production of shoes.


   Nonlinearity and Options  

The multiple variables that can impact an option investment's return make options an example of an investment with high nonlinearity. When trading options, investors may have many variables to consider, such as the underlying asset price, implied volatility, time to maturity, and the current interest rate.



For investments with a high degree of linearity, investors generally use a standard value at risk technique to estimate the amount of potential loss the investment might incur over a specified time period. However, using a standard value at risk technique is generally not sufficient for options because of their higher degree of nonlinearity.



Instead, options investors might use a more advanced technique, such as a Monte Carlo simulation, which enables the investor to model for a wide variety of variables with different parameters to assess possible investment returns and risks.


   Special Considerations  

Nonlinear regression is a common form of regression analysis used in the financial industry to model nonlinear data against independent variables in an attempt to explain their relationship. Although the model's parameters are nonlinear, nonlinear regression can fit data using methods of successive approximations to offer explanatory outputs.



Nonlinear regression models are more complicated to create than linear models because they often take considerable trial-and-error to define the outputs. However, they can be valuable tools for investors who are attempting to determine the potential risks associated with their investments based on different variables.
What Are Nonmonetary Assets?  

Nonmonetary assets are items a company holds for which it is not possible to precisely determine a dollar value. These are assets whose dollar value may fluctuate substantially over time. A company may need to change its nonmonetary assets as the assets wear out or become obsolete. An example of this would be factory equipment and vehicles. Generally speaking, nonmonetary assets are assets that appear on the balance sheet but are not readily or easily convertible into cash or cash equivalents.





Key Takeaways

A nonmonetary asset refers to an asset that a company holds that does not have a precise dollar value and is not easily convertible to cash or cash equivalents.Companies categorize nonmonetary assets as either tangible assets or intangible assets.Examples of nonmonetary assets that are considered tangible are a company's property, plant, equipment, and inventory.Examples of nonmonetary assets that are considered intangible are a company's intellectual property, such as its patents, copyrights, and trademarks.In contrast, monetary assets can easily be converted to cash or cash equivalents for a fixed or precisely determined amount of money.


   Understanding Nonmonetary Assets  

Nonmonetary assets are distinct from monetary assets. Monetary assets include cash and cash equivalents, such as cash on hand, bank deposits, investment accounts, accounts receivable (AR), and notes receivable, all of which can readily be converted into a fixed or precisely determinable amount of money.



Nonmonetary assets, on the other hand, do not have a fixed rate at which the company can convert them into cash. Typical nonmonetary assets of a company include both tangible assets and intangible assets. Tangible assets have a physical form and are the most basic types of assets listed on a company's balance sheet. Examples of tangible assets are a company's inventory and its property, plant, and equipment (PP&E).



In contrast, intangible assets are not physical in nature. Companies can acquire intangible assets or they can create them. Examples include copyrights, design patents, trademarks, brand recognition, and goodwill.


   Special Considerations  

It is not always clear as to whether an asset is a monetary or nonmonetary asset. The deciding factor in such instances is whether the asset's value represents an amount that can be converted into a determined cash or a cash equivalent amount within a very short span of time. If it can be converted into cash easily, the asset is considered a monetary asset. Liquid assets are assets that can easily be converted into cash in a short amount of time. If it cannot be readily converted to cash or a cash equivalent in the short term, then it is considered a nonmonetary asset.


   Nonmonetary Assets vs. Nonmonetary Liabilities  

In addition to nonmonetary assets, companies also commonly have nonmonetary liabilities. Nonmonetary liabilities include obligations that cannot be met in the form of cash payments, such as a warranty service on goods a company sells. It is possible to determine the dollar value of such a liability, but the liability represents a service obligation rather than a financial obligation such as interest payments on a loan.


   Differences Between Monetary and Nonmonetary Assets  

Dollar values are the accepted measure for quantifying a company's assets and liabilities as they are presented in a company's financial statements. However, nonmonetary assets and liabilities that cannot be readily converted to cash are also included in a company's balance sheet. Common examples of nonmonetary assets are the real estate a company owns where its offices or a manufacturing facility are located, and intangibles such as proprietary technology or other intellectual property.



These items are undeniably assets, but their current value is not always apparent as it changes over time in accordance with economic and market conditions and forces. For example, marketplace competition changes the dollar value of a company's inventory as the company adjusts its market price in response to price competition from other companies or to the demand for the company's products. General economic forces such as inflation or deflation also impact the value of nonmonetary assets such as inventory or manufacturing facilities.



A company can use its monetary assets to fund capital improvements or to pay for day-to-day operational expenses. A company will use its nonmonetary assets to help generate revenue. For example, a company can use its factory and equipment to produce the products it will sell to its customers.
What Is the Nonparametric Method?  

The nonparametric method refers to a type of statistic that does not make any assumptions about the characteristics of the sample (its parameters) or whether the observed data is quantitative or qualitative.



Nonparametric statistics can include certain descriptive statistics, statistical models, inference, and statistical tests. The model structure of nonparametric methods is not specified a priori but is instead determined from data.



The term "nonparametric" is not meant to imply that such models completely lack parameters, but rather that the number and nature of the parameters are flexible and not fixed in advance. A histogram is an example of a nonparametric estimate of a probability distribution.



In contrast, well-known statistical methods such as ANOVA, Pearson's correlation, t-test, and others do make assumptions about the data being analyzed. One of the most common parametric assumptions is that population data have a "normal distribution."





Key Takeaways

The nonparametric method is a branch of statistics in which the data are not assumed to come from prescribed models that are determined by a small number of parameters.The nonparametric analysis is often best suited when considering the order of something, where even if the numerical data changes, the results will likely stay the same.This is in contrast to parametric methods, which make assumptions about the shape or characteristics of the data. Examples of such methods include the normal distribution model and the linear regression model. 


   How the Nonparametric Method Works  

Parametric and nonparametric methods are often used on different types of data. Parametric statistics generally require interval or ratio data. An example of this type of data is age, income, height, and weight in which the values are continuous and the intervals between values have meaning.



In contrast, nonparametric statistics are typically used on data that nominal or ordinal. Nominal variables are variables for which the values have not quantitative value. Common nominal variables in social science research, for example, include sex, whose possible values are discrete categories, "male" and "female."' Other common nominal variables in social science research are race, marital status, educational level, and employment status (employed versus unemployed).



Ordinal variables are those in which the value suggests some order. An example of an ordinal variable would be if a survey respondent asked, "On a scale of 1 to 5, with 1 being Extremely Dissatisfied and 5 being Extremely Satisfied, how would you rate your experience with the cable company?"



Parametric statistics may too be applied to populations with other known distribution types, however. Nonparametric statistics do not require that the population data meet the assumptions required for parametric statistics. Nonparametric statistics, therefore, fall into a category of statistics sometimes referred to as distribution-free. Often nonparametric methods will be used when the population data has an unknown distribution, or when the sample size is small.


   Special Considerations  

Although nonparametric statistics have the advantage of having to meet few assumptions, they are less powerful than parametric statistics. This means that they may not show a relationship between two variables when in fact one exists.



Nonparametric statistics have gained appreciation due to their ease of use. As the need for parameters is relieved, the data becomes more applicable to a larger variety of tests. This type of statistics can be used without the mean, sample size, standard deviation, or the estimation of any other related parameters when none of that information is available.



Since nonparametric statistics makes fewer assumptions about the sample data, its application is wider in scope than parametric statistics. In cases where parametric testing is more appropriate, nonparametric methods will be less efficient. This is because nonparametric statistics discard some information that is available in the data, unlike parametric statistics.






Common nonparametric tests include Chi-Square, Wilcoxon rank-sum test, Kruskal-Wallis test, and Spearman's rank-order correlation.


   Examples of the Nonparametric Method  

Consider a financial analyst who wishes to estimate the value-at-risk (VaR) of an investment. The analyst gathers earnings data from hundreds of similar investments over a similar time horizon. Rather than assume that the earnings follow a normal distribution, she uses the histogram to estimate the distribution nonparametrically. The 5th percentile of this histogram then provides the analyst with a nonparametric estimate of VaR.



For a second example, consider a different researcher who wants to know whether average hours of sleep are linked to how frequently one falls ill. Because many people get sick rarely, if at all, and occasional others get sick far more often than most others, the distribution of illness frequency is clearly non-normal, being right-skewed and outlier-prone.



Thus, rather than use a method that assumes a normal distribution for illness frequency, as is done in classical regression analysis, for example, the researcher decides to use a nonparametric method such as quantile regression analysis.
What Are Nonparametric Statistics?  

Nonparametric statistics refers to a statistical method in which the data are not assumed to come from prescribed models that are determined by a small number of parameters; examples of such models include the normal distribution model and the linear regression model. Nonparametric statistics sometimes uses data that is ordinal, meaning it does not rely on numbers, but rather on a ranking or order of sorts. For example, a survey conveying consumer preferences ranging from like to dislike would be considered ordinal data.



Nonparametric statistics includes nonparametric descriptive statistics, statistical models, inference, and statistical tests. The model structure of nonparametric models is not specified a priori but is instead determined from data. The term nonparametric is not meant to imply that such models completely lack parameters, but rather that the number and nature of the parameters are flexible and not fixed in advance. A histogram is an example of a nonparametric estimate of a probability distribution.





Key Takeaways

Nonparametric statistics are easy to use but do not offer the pinpoint accuracy of other statistical models.This type of analysis is often best suited when considering the order of something, where even if the numerical data changes, the results will likely stay the same.


   Understanding Nonparametric Statistics  

In statistics, parametric statistics includes parameters such as the mean, standard deviation, Pearson correlation, variance, etc. This form of statistics uses the observed data to estimate the parameters of the distribution. Under parametric statistics, data are often assumed to come from a normal distribution with unknown parameters μ (population mean) and σ2 (population variance), which are then estimated using the sample mean and sample variance.






Nonparametric statistics makes no assumption about the sample size or whether the observed data is quantitative.



Nonparametric statistics does not assume that data is drawn from a normal distribution. Instead, the shape of the distribution is estimated under this form of statistical measurement. While there are many situations in which a normal distribution can be assumed, there are also some scenarios in which the true data generating process is far from normally distributed.


   Examples of Nonparametric Statistics  

In the first example, consider a financial analyst who wishes to estimate the value-at-risk (VaR) of an investment. The analyst gathers earnings data from 100’s of similar investments over a similar time horizon. Rather than assume that the earnings follow a normal distribution, they use the histogram to estimate the distribution nonparametrically. The 5th percentile of this histogram then provides the analyst with a nonparametric estimate of VaR.



For a second example, consider a different researcher who wants to know whether average hours of sleep is linked to how frequently one falls ill. Because many people get sick rarely, if at all, and occasional others get sick far more often than most others, the distribution of illness frequency is clearly non-normal, being right-skewed and outlier-prone. Thus, rather than use a method that assumes a normal distribution for illness frequency, as is done in classical regression analysis, for example, the researcher decides to use a nonparametric method such as quantile regression analysis.


   Special Considerations  

Nonparametric statistics have gained appreciation due to their ease of use. As the need for parameters is relieved, the data becomes more applicable to a larger variety of tests. This type of statistics can be used without the mean, sample size, standard deviation, or the estimation of any other related parameters when none of that information is available.



Since nonparametric statistics makes fewer assumptions about the sample data, its application is wider in scope than parametric statistics. In cases where parametric testing is more appropriate, nonparametric methods will be less efficient. This is because nonparametric statistics discard some information that is available in the data, unlike parametric statistics.
What Are Nonpassive Income and Losses?  

Nonpassive income and losses constitute any income or losses that cannot be classified as passive. Nonpassive income includes any active income, such as wages, business income, or investment income. Nonpassive losses include losses incurred in the active management of a business. Nonpassive income and losses are usually declarable and deductible in the year incurred.



Nonpassive income and losses cannot be offset with passive losses or income. For example, wages or self-employment income cannot be offset by losses from partnerships or other passive activities. Conversely, nonpassive losses cannot be offset by passive income from partnerships or other sources of income in which the taxpayer is not a material participant.


   Understanding Nonpassive Income and Losses  

Activities that include the taxpayer’s material participation in the effort that result in losses or income may be classified as nonpassive. According to the Internal Revenue Service, the tests for nonpassive versus passive are rooted in the time spent, and actions performed, in the pursuit of the revenue.





Key Takeaways

Nonpassive income and losses are any income or losses that cannot be classified as passive.Included in nonpassive income is any active income, such as wages, business income, or investment income.Losses or income may qualify as nonpassive if the taxpayer annually and actively participates for more than 500 hours in the business venture (100 hours if no other partner or co-worker puts in more work hours than the taxpayer during the year).Other types of income can qualify as nonpassive, such as investment income in the forms of dividends, selling investments, and interest. Compensation paid for the destruction or theft of property is considered nonpassive.Retirement income, such as deferred compensation and social security, may also be included as nonpassive.



The losses or income may qualify as nonpassive if the taxpayer annually and actively participates for more than 500 hours in the business venture. That requirement falls to 100 hours if no other partner or co-worker puts in more work hours towards the venture than the taxpayer during the year.



This does not include, however, serving as a manager of the business if another manager is fulfilling those same duties. Furthermore, owning a business yet putting in work hours only for the sake of claiming material participation might not meet the criteria of the IRS for nonpassive.



There are other types of income that can qualify as nonpassive. Income derived from investment portfolios can receive this classification. That can include dividends, proceeds of the sale of investments, and interest. Compensation paid for the destruction or theft of property is considered nonpassive.



Sources of retirement income such as deferred compensation and social security may also be included as nonpassive. Just as income from these sources must be reported, any losses associated with these activities can be deducted from the taxpayer’s taxes.



This also includes general partnerships that have the responsibility to oversee the day-to-day operations of a business. Nonpassive losses that general partners face may, in turn, affect the business they are managing, as they may attempt to sell or its assets to address their losses. This could, in turn, lead to the closure of the business.
What Is a Nonperforming Asset?  

A nonperforming asset (NPA) is a debt instrument where the borrower has not made any previously agreed upon interest and principal repayments to the designated lender for an extended period of time. The nonperforming asset is, therefore, not yielding any income to the lender in the form of interest payments.


   BREAKING DOWN Nonperforming Asset  

For example, a mortgage in default would be considered nonperforming. After a prolonged period of non-payment, the lender will force the borrower to liquidate any assets that were pledged as part of the debt agreement. If no assets were pledged, the lender might write-off the asset as a bad debt and then sell it at a discount to a collections agency.



Banks usually categorize loans as nonperforming after 90 days of nonpayment of interest or principal, which can occur during the term of the loan or for failure to pay principal due at maturity. For example, if a company with a $10 million loan with interest-only payments of $50,000 per month fails to make a payment for three consecutive months, the lender may be required to categorize the loan as nonperforming to meet regulatory requirements. A loan can also be categorized as nonperforming if a company makes all interest payments but cannot repay the principal at maturity.


   The Effects of NPAs  

Carrying nonperforming assets, also referred to as nonperforming loans, on the balance sheet places three distinct burdens on lenders. The nonpayment of interest or principal reduces cash flow for the lender, which can disrupt budgets and decrease earnings. Loan loss provisions, which are set aside to cover potential losses, reduce the capital available to provide subsequent loans. Once the actual losses from defaulted loans are determined, they are written off against earnings.


   Recovering Losses  

Lenders generally have four options to recoup some or all of the losses resulting from nonperforming assets.



When companies are struggling to service debt, lenders can take proactive steps to restructure loans to maintain cash flow and avoid classifying loans as nonperforming. When defaulted loans are collateralized by assets of borrowers, lenders can take possession of the collateral and sell it to cover losses to the extent of its market value.



Lenders can also convert bad loans into equity, which may appreciate to the point of full recovery of principal lost in the defaulted loan. When bonds are converted to new equity shares, the value of the original shares is usually wiped out. As a last resort, banks can sell bad debts at steep discounts to companies that specialize in loan collections. Lenders typically sell defaulted loans that are not secured with collateral or when the other means of recovering losses are not cost-effective.
What Is a Nonperforming Loan (NPL)?  

A nonperforming loan (NPL) is a loan that is in default due to the fact that the borrower has not made the scheduled payments for a specified period. Although the exact elements of nonperforming status can vary depending on the specific loan's terms, "no payment" is usually defined as zero payments of either principal or interest.



The specified period also varies, depending on the industry and the type of loan. Generally, however, the period is 90 days or 180 days.





Key Takeaways

A nonperforming loan (NPL) is a loan in which the borrower is in default and hasn't made any scheduled payments of principal or interest for a certain period of time.In banking, commercial loans are considered nonperforming if the borrower is 90 days past due.The International Monetary Fund considers loans that are less than 90 days past due as nonperforming if there's high uncertainty surrounding future payments.However, there is no standard or definition of NPLs.Some banks opt to sell NPLs to other banks or investors to free up capital and/or focus on performing loans that bring in income.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   How a Nonperforming Loan (NPL) Works  

A nonperforming loan (NPL) is considered in default or close to default. Once a loan is nonperforming, the odds the debtor will repay it in full are substantially lower. If the debtor resumes payments again on an NPL, it becomes a reperforming loan (RPL), even if the debtor has not caught up on all the missed payments.



In banking, commercial loans are considered nonperforming if the debtor has made zero payments of interest or principal within 90 days, or is 90 days past due. For a consumer loan, 180 days past due classifies it as an NPL.



A loan is in arrears when principal or interest payments are late or missed. A loan is in default when the lender considers the loan agreement to be broken and the debtor is unable to meet the obligations.


   Types of Nonperforming Loans (NPLs)  

A debt can achieve nonperforming loan status in several ways. Examples of NPLs include:



A loan in which 90 days' worth of interest has been capitalized, refinanced, or delayed due to an agreement or an amendment to the original agreement.A loan in which payments are less than 90 days late, but the lender no longer believes the debtor will make future payments.A loan in which the maturity date of principal repayment has occurred, but some fraction of the loan remains outstanding.






The Fair Debt Collection Practices Act prohibits certain abusive or deceptive practices in order to collect on nonperforming personal loans. However, this law only applies to third-party debt collectors or debt investors, not the original lender.


   Official Definitions of Nonperforming Loans (NPLs)  

Several international financial authorities offer specific guidelines for determining nonperforming loans.


  The European Central Bank Definition  

The European Central Bank (ECB) requires asset and definition comparability to evaluate risk exposures across euro area central banks. The ECB specifies multiple criteria that can cause an NPL classification when it performs stress tests on participating banks. The ECB has performed a comprehensive assessment and developed criteria to define loans as nonperforming if they are:



90 days past due, even if they are not defaulted or impaired
Impaired with respect to the accounting specifics for U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) banks
In default according to the Capital Requirements Regulation



An addendum, issued in 2018, specified the time frame for lenders to set aside funds to cover nonperforming loans: two to seven years, depending on whether the loan was secured or not. As of 2020, eurozone lenders still have approximately $1 trillion worth of nonperforming loans on their books.


  The International Monetary Fund Definition  

The International Monetary Fund (IMF) also sets out multiple criteria for nonperforming government loans.



The IMF has defined nonperforming loans as those whose:



Debtors have not paid interest or principal payments in at least 90 days or moreInterest payments equal to 90 days or more have been capitalized, refinanced, or delayed by agreementPayments have been delayed by less than 90 days, but come with high uncertainty or no certainty the debtor will make payments in the future






Nonperforming loans may damage the credit rating of the borrower, making it harder and more expensive to borrow money in the future.


   Nonperforming Loan (NPL) vs. Reperforming Loan (RPL)  

Nonperforming loans are those in default. Reperforming loans are those that were once nonperforming and are now performing again. The reperforming loans were once delinquent for at least 90 days and are now performing again.



Reperforming loans are often loans where the borrower has filed for bankruptcy and has continued to make payments as a result of the bankruptcy agreement. Such an agreement generally allows the borrower to become current on their debt via a loan modification program.


   Example of a Nonperforming Loan (NPL)  

Imagine a hypothetical borrower who cannot make loan payments due to job loss. After 90 days without payment, the bank or lender will consider the loan nonperforming. The bank would shift the loan to their nonperforming list and continue seeking payment for the debt.



There are multiple avenues available to the creditor. One of the most common ways to collect the debt is to send it to a collections agency, which will be paid a percentage of any money they recover. The lender can also sell the debt to a debt buyer at a fraction of the face value. Although the creditor will lose money, this is often a better financial choice than trying to collect on a nonperforming loan.



Borrowers with nonperforming loans may be able to negotiate with creditors to forgive part of their debt. However, this may damage their credit rating, making it harder and more expensive to borrow in the future.




What Happens to Nonperforming Loans?
Nonperforming loans can be sold by banks to other banks or investors. The loan may also become reperforming if the borrower starts making payments again. In other cases, the lender may repossess the borrower's collateral the satisfy the loan balance.




What Are the Causes of Nonperforming Loans?
Nonperforming loans tend to occur during economic hardships when delinquencies are high. They happen when the borrower fails to make a payment for a long period of time (such as 90 to 180 days).




Why Do Banks Sell Nonperforming Loans?
Banks may sell nonperforming loans to focus on the loans that bring in money each month. Selling the loans at a discount may be more profitable than trying to collect money from a delinquent borrower.




Who Buys Nonperforming Loans?
Other banks or distressed debt investors may consider investing in nonperforming loans, as well as real estate investors.




How Do You Solve a Nonperforming Loan?
Solving a nonperforming loan involves getting back on track with payments. This is may be done with a loan modification agreement through the lender.


   The Bottom Line  

The number of nonperforming loans tends to rise during economic uncertainty. These loans are the ones where borrowers do not (or cannot) make payments. The loan goes to NPL status if no payment is received for a set period of time (usually 90 or 180 days—depending on the lender).
What Is a Nonprofit Organization?  

A nonprofit organization is a business that has been granted tax-exempt status by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) because it furthers a social cause and provides a public benefit. Donations made to a nonprofit organization are typically tax-deductible to individuals and businesses that make them, and the nonprofit itself pays no tax on the received donations or on any other money earned through fundraising activities. Nonprofit organizations are sometimes called NPOs or 501(c)(3) organizations based on the section of the tax code that permits them to operate.





Key Takeaways

A nonprofit is an entity designed to better its community by facilitating donations and grants into programs.Nonprofits may receive funding from individuals, corporations, government entities, or other entities.To qualify as a nonprofit, the entity must serve the public good, meet filing requirements, be established as a 501(c)(3) or similar-type organization, and avoid engaging in certain types of activities.Nonprofits file Form 990 as an informational return to communicate to the public its revenues, expenses, activities, and programs.Though nonprofits often have the most passionate individuals and diversified donation streams, nonprofits also often have limited resources for hiring and regulatory requirements.


   Qualifications for NPO Status  

A nonprofit designation and tax-exempt status are given only to organizations that further religious, scientific, charitable, educational, literary, public safety or cruelty-prevention causes or purposes. Examples of nonprofit organizations include hospitals, universities, national charities, churches, and foundations.



A nonprofit must serve the public in some way, whether through the offering of goods, services, or a combination of the two. They're also required to make financial and operating information public so that donors can be informed about how—and how well—their contributions have been used. Nonprofits may also exist to collect income to dispense to other qualifying charities.



Before it can receive a tax exemption, an organization needs to request 501(c)(3) status from the IRS. Once registered and running, the organization has to maintain compliance with the appropriate state agency that regulates charitable organizations. This often requires a dedicated CIO and accounting team.



NPOs cannot be political, which helps explain why so many of them actively seek a non-partisan tone in their communications. Organizations seeking 501(c)(3) status must state explicitly in their organizing papers that they will not participate in any political campaign on the behalf of any candidate or make expenditures for political purposes. There are 501(c) groups that can engage in these activities, but not 501(c)(3) organizations.


   Operating Rules for NPO Status  

While some not-for-profit organizations use only volunteer labor, many large or even medium-size non-profits are likely to require a staff of paid full-time employees, managers, and directors. Despite having special tax advantages in other respects, nonprofits typically must pay employment taxes and abide by state and federal workplace rules in the same way as for-profit organizations.



Nonprofits are allowed to provide assets or income to individuals only as fair compensation for their services. Indeed, the organization must explicitly state in its organizing papers that it will not be used for the personal gain or benefit of its founders, employees, supporters, relatives, or associates.


   Nonprofit Funding Sources  

Nonprofits may receive income or donations from a variety of sources. Below are the most common ways nonprofits fundraise and earn revenue.


  Individual Donations  

Nonprofits often rely on individual donors who contribute money, goods, or services to support their mission. Donors can give one-time or recurring donations, and they may give through various channels, including online platforms, direct mail, or events. Some individuals may also coordinate with their company and have donations automatically pulled from their paychecks.


  Grants  

Nonprofits may receive grants from foundations, corporations, or government agencies. Grants are typically awarded for specific projects or programs, and may require the nonprofit to meet certain conditions or reporting requirements. Nonprofits usually have to apply for the grant which requires an extensive application process.


  Corporate Gifts  

Corporations may donate money, goods, or services to nonprofits as part of their corporate social responsibility initiatives or to support causes that align with their values or mission. In addition, if companies have matching programs, corporations may match individual donations that are automatically withdrawn from paychecks.


  Major Events  

Nonprofits often host events such as galas, auctions, or charity runs to raise money and awareness for their cause. These events may involve ticket sales, sponsorships, or auctions of goods or services.


  In-Kind Donations  

Nonprofits may receive donations of goods or services such as office supplies, equipment, or professional services. Instead of individuals or companies donating money, it may be more efficient to have specific goods donated instead. Not only can this help reduce their expenses and free up resources for other activities, the donating party may receive favorable tax benefits as gifting in-kind items opposed to having sell a good to donate the cash may be favorable.


   Nonprofit vs. Not-for-Profit  

The terms nonprofit organization (NPO) and not-for-profit organization (NFPO)are sometimes used interchangeably. There are, however, key distinctions between the two types of enterprise.



A key one is their purpose. As mentioned, nonprofits must offer some social benefit and provide goods or services. Not-for-profits need not have such an orientation and may exist simply to serve their membership rather than society at large.



The sections of the IRS's 501(c) code that governs each of NPOs and NFPOs serve to further delineate their differences. Nonprofits operate under 501(c)(3), for corporations, funds or foundations that operate for religious, charitable, scientific, literary or educational purposes. NFPOs, by contrast, primarily do so under other sections, such as 501(c)(7), for recreational organizations. One classic example of an NFPO, then, is a sports club that's jointly owned by its members and sustained simply for their enjoyment.



In turn, the code sets out different tax treatment for NPOs and NFPOs. In general, both organization types are tax-exempt, as in the income they earn is not subject to tax. But only with NPOs is the money people give to the organization, as dues or donations, deductible from their taxable income.






Form 990 is due on the 15th day five months after the organization's taxable year end. For organizations that have a calendar year end, Form 990 is due May 15th though the organization can file an extension.


   Nonprofits and Form 990  

Nonprofits are tax-exempt entities. However, they are still required to file informational returns to the IRS using Form 990. This tax form provides information about the organization's finances, programs, and activities to the public and the IRS. The form is used by charitable, religious, educational, and other types of tax-exempt organizations. Private foundations, charitable trusts, and political organizations also must file a form 990.



The form 990 requires organizations to provide detailed information about their revenue, expenses, assets, and liabilities. The form is also very different from an individual's tax form as there are many governance questions to ensure IRS compliance.



Many companies post their 990 on their website. The form is also available to the public, which allows donors, stakeholders, and members of the public to review the organization's financial information and assess its operations and impact. For this reason, it's incredibly important to ensure the information reported is correct as it may indirectly negatively impact public perception on the use of donated funds.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Nonprofits  
  Pros of Nonprofits  

Nonprofits are typically focused on a specific mission or cause. Because they operate around a central vision such as addressing a social issue, promoting education or the arts, or providing healthcare to underserved populations, this vision can foster a greater sense of purpose for staff. As opposed to a for-profit entity primarily driven by increasing profit and market share, there is often greater intrinsic value within nonprofits.



Because nonprofits are exempt from federal and state income taxes, they can allocate more of their resources towards achieving their mission and serving their communities. Nonprofits also have access to the greater range of funding sources discussed above. Similar to how an investor might attempt to diversify their portfolio, nonprofits can aim to diversify their income and donation streams.



In many ways, nonprofits can capitalize on cheaper or free labor to support their operations. Volunteer-run organizations may have small-to-no labor costs, and these individuals may be driven by a strong sense of community as opposed to individuals striving for personal profit.


  Cons of Nonprofits  

Nonprofits rely on donations, grants, and other sources of funding to operate, which can be unpredictable and inconsistent. This can make it difficult for nonprofits to sustain their programs and operations over the long term. As opposed to companies that generate products that may meet daily necessities, donating is an optional expense for households and may easily be reduced or eliminated.



Nonprofits often have limited scalability. They may have limited staff, expertise, and technology resources, which can make it challenging to implement programs and achieve their goals effectively. In addition, due to limited resources, nonprofits are often known for lower compensation scales compared to for-profit entities.



Nonprofits may also face accountability hurdles. Like other forms of organization, nonprofits face certain levels of regulation and oversight. On one hand, it must maintain requirements to maintain its nonprofit status via the IRS. On the other hand, it must demonstrate to donors it is being fiscally responsible and deploying successful programs that benefit the community. Last, management of a nonprofit may report to the board and must answer to more strategically-driven motivations.





Pros

Focused on a specific mission that improves the well-being of its community
Is exempt from taxes, allowing for resources to be deployed more efficiently
May have a broad range of funding and donation sources
Often rely on volunteers for labor



Cons

May have unpredictable revenue streams due to changes in donor preferences and abilities
Must comply with regulations and donor stipulations
Often face competitive disadvantage when hiring compared to for profit entities







How Do Nonprofit Organizations Work?
Nonprofits solicit donations from individuals, corporations, or government entities. Then, it uses those proceeds to deploy programs to benefit its target community. As a result of using funds for the betterment of the community, the IRS allows nonprofit organizations that meet appropriate requirements to be tax-exempt.




Do Nonprofits Make Money?
Yes, nonprofits make money. It is entirely reasonable to expect that nonprofits receive more revenue in a given year compared to the expenses it pays out. Like any other form of business, a nonprofit must strive to perpetually operate. For this reason, nonprofits often build reserves, have net profit, and make money to ensure it can serve its mission for the long-term.




Who Actually Owns a Nonprofit?
A nonprofit has no shareholders. Instead, a nonprofit is often overseen by a board of directors that dictate and manage operation of the entity. The executive director of a nonprofit reports to the board, and the board decide upon the best ways to deploy capital for the betterment of the public.


   The Bottom Line  

Nonprofit organizations are entities that are tax-exempt and operate to better the community. By receiving funds from individuals, corporations, and governments, nonprofits deploy programs and strategies for public good. Nonprofits must meet a number of regulatory compliances to operate, and they often have the most passionate, loyal volunteers helping operate their mission.
What Are Nonrenewable Resources?  

The term nonrenewable resource refers to a natural substance that is not replenished with the speed at which it is consumed. As such, a nonrenewable resource is a finite resource. Humans constantly draw on the reserves of these substances while the formation of new supplies takes eons. Examples of nonrenewable resources include fossil fuels like oil, natural gas, and coal. The opposite of a nonrenewable resource is a renewable resource. The supplies of these resources replenish naturally or can be sustained.





Key Takeaways

A nonrenewable resource is a substance that is used up more quickly than it can replace itself.The supply of a nonrenewable resource is finite, which means it cannot easily be replenishedNonrenewable resources are extracted directly from the Earth.Most fossil fuels, minerals, and metal ores are nonrenewable resources.The opposite of nonrenewable resources is renewable ones, whose supplies are abundant and are considered sustainable.


   Understanding Nonrenewable Resources  

Nonrenewable resources come directly from the earth. This can be directly from the ground or a mine. The reserves of these substances took billions of years to form, and it will take billions of years to replace the supplies used. As such, the supplies of nonrenewable resources are finite and cannot be replaced. Humans extract these resources in gas, liquid, or solid form and then convert them to suit their needs.



Crude oil, natural gas, coal, and uranium are nonrenewable resources. These are all processed into products that can be used commercially. For instance, the fossil fuel industry extracts crude oil from the ground and converts it to gasoline. Fossil fuel liquids also are refined into petrochemical products that are used as ingredients in the manufacture of literally hundreds of products from plastics and polyurethane to solvents.



Some types of groundwater are considered nonrenewable resources if the aquifer is unable to be replenished at the same rate at which it's drained.



Most societies are heavily dependent on nonrenewable resources, especially for energy. It's estimated that about 80% of all of the world's energy is consumed using fossil fuels. Not only does this put a huge strain on the available supply but it also has a major impact on the environment. Burning fossil fuels releases carbon dioxide, which leads to climate change.






In economic terms, nonrenewables are resources of financial or economic value that cannot be readily replaced at the speed with which they are being consumed.


   Nonrenewable Resources vs. Renewable Resources  

Nonrenewable resources are contrasted with renewable ones. The supplies of renewable resources are abundant and endless, which makes them easy to find and easy to replace. Unlike nonrenewable ones, renewable resources are generally sustainable. While the former can be depleted, the latter can't.



The sun, wind, and water are the most common examples of renewable resources. Others include lumber (which can be replenished through planting), the earth's heat (geothermal), and biomass.



The call to use renewable resources, especially as energy sources, is becoming more common. That's because our dependence on and consumption of nonrenewable resources is causing a rapid decline in supplies and leading to climate change. Clean energy sources include solar energy and turbines that are powered by wind. These easily replenish themselves and don't have a detrimental impact on the environment.









Nonrenewable Resources 
Renewable Resources


Oil
Sun 


Natural Gas
Wind


Coal
Water


Nuclear Energy
Geothermal and Biomass


Metals and Minerals*
Metals and Minerals*









What about metals and minerals that come from the earth, such as gold, silver, and iron? These may be nonrenewable or renewable resources, depending on who you ask. They can fall into the former category because they are extracted from the Earth. But some people consider them renewable and sustainable because they are abundant and can be used and recycled.


   Fossil Fuels and Nonrenewable Resources  

Fossil fuels are all nonrenewable. But not all nonrenewables are fossil fuels. Crude oil, natural gas, and coal are all considered fossil fuels, but uranium is not. Rather, it is a heavy metal that is extracted as a solid and then converted by nuclear power plants into a fuel source.



All of these nonrenewable resources have proved historically to be valuable energy sources that are inexpensive to extract. Storage, conversion, and shipping are easy and cheap.



Fuels created from nonrenewable resources are still the primary source of all the power generated in the world due to their affordability and high energy content.


   Renewable Growth  

Following the basic rule of supply and demand, the cost to obtain nonrenewable resources will continue to rise as they become scarcer. Supply for many of these fuels is in danger of running out completely. Eventually, their prices will hit a point that end users cannot afford, forcing a move toward alternative energy sources.



Concern over the impact of fossil fuel use on the environment and its contribution to climate change continues to grow. The first international agreement on fighting climate change was the Kyoto Protocol, adopted in 1997. In 2015, 196 different parties adopted the Paris Agreement, an international treaty on climate change. By signing, the parties agreed to take steps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.



The alternatives to fossil fuels require ample lead time to be put into place. That process has begun slowly. Wind power generated about 6.3% of American electrical power in 2017 and was the source of about 8.4% in 2020. About 1.6% of American electricity was supplied by solar power as of the end of 2018. That figure rose to 2.3% in 2020.



In the U.S., plug-in electric vehicles had a market share of a bit over 2% in 2018. As many as 6.6 million electric cars were sold in the world in 2021. That figure represented about 9% of the global market.




What Defines a Nonrenewable Resource?
Nonrenewable resources are derived from the Earth— in a finite supply that can take billions of years to replenish. Historically, many nonrenewables have been relatively cheap to extract. But as their supply continues to diminish, the cost of this extraction may rise in price, leading customers to use alternative sources, such as solar and wind energy.




What Are the Different Types of Nonrenewable Resources?
Among the most common examples of natural resources are crude oil, coal, uranium, and mineral sources such as gold. One subset of nonrenewable resources includes crude oil and natural gas. Both of these substances are made out of organic carbon material, depending on the form it takes after heating and compressing over time. Another form of nonrenewables is minerals, which include gold, silver, and iron. Unlike crude oil and natural gas, these are quite difficult and expensive to extract. Meanwhile, different types of groundwater are nonrenewables when they do not replenish at their draining speed.




How Do Nonrenewables Differ From Renewable Resources?
Since nonrenewables, by definition, will diminish in supply over time, the law of supply and demand suggests that their price will continue to rise. Renewables, by contrast, have an infinite supply. However, at the same time, the cost and time required to establish them will be lengthy. More recently, demand for renewables has grown in tandem with governmental incentives, with many of their costs decreasing over time. Solar energy is one prime example of this trend.




How Do Nonrenewable Resources Affect Climate Change?
Humans depend heavily on fossil fuels like crude oil, natural gas, and coal to supply energy. Burning these commodities release carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. This is the primary greenhouse gas that contributes to climate change. The more fossil fuels we burn, the more gases build up. This warms up the climate and causes shifts in the atmosphere, in the water, and on the land.




What Are Some Examples of Renewable Resources?
Renewable resources are those whose supplies are abundant and can be easily replenished. Unlike nonrenewable resources, they are considered to be sustainable. Examples of renewable resources are the sun, wind, water, heat from the Earth, and biomass.


   The Bottom Line  

Fossil fuels are normally the first thing most people think of when they hear the word nonrenewable resources. Collectively, these are resources that come from the earth. They are extracted and converted for human consumption, usually as energy sources. What sets them apart from renewable resources is that their supplies are finite and they aren't considered sustainable because of the damage they do to the environment.
What Is a Nonresident Alien?  

A nonresident alien is a noncitizen who "has not passed the Green Card test or the substantial presence test," according to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Nonresident aliens must pay taxes on income earned in the U.S. Typical examples of nonresident aliens are teachers, people seeking medical treatment, and students.





Key Takeaways

Nonresident aliens are noncitizens of the U.S. who pass the substantial presence tests or are exempt from a Green Card.Foreign nationals are classified as either resident or nonresident aliens for tax purposes.Once someone has been in the U.S. for at least 31 days and resided in the country for over 183 days in a three-year period, they may qualify as a resident alien.Nonresident aliens only have to pay taxes if the income is effectively connected to a trade or business in the U.S.


   Understanding Nonresident Aliens  

Once a person has been inside the U.S. for a specific period, they may qualify as a resident alien under the substantial presence test. Foreign nationals are classified as either resident or nonresident aliens.



To pass the substantial presence test, an individual must stay in the U.S. for more than 31 days in any given current year. They must also have resided in the U.S. for more than 183 days over a three-year period, which includes the current year.﻿﻿ Those not passing the test or not having or qualifying for a green card must file their taxes as nonresident aliens.


   Special Considerations  
  Taxes for Nonresident Aliens  

Like permanent citizens, resident aliens pay taxes on all earned income. However, a nonresident alien is subject to taxation only under specific circumstances. For a nonresident alien in the U.S., income is taxed based on whether or not it is effectively connected with a trade or business in the U.S.



Effectively connected income includes personal service income (wages, salaries, commissions, etc.), certain investment income, and certain business income. Effectively connected income is taxed at the same rates that apply to U.S. citizens and U.S. residents. Income that is not effectively connected to trade or business in the U.S. is taxed at a flat 30%. Nonresident aliens may also enjoy other tax benefits such as international treaty exemptions.



Nonresident alien income sources may be taxable should the source come from the U.S. For example, rent payments on properties they own within the U.S. would be taxable, as well as any royalties associated with the extraction of natural resources from the properties. Nonresident aliens are required to submit tax filings regarding their U.S. income-generating activities. 



Nonresident aliens must file Form 1040NR, or Form 1040NR-EZ if they are filing with no dependents. The deadline for filing Form 1040NR or Form 1040NR-EZ is April 15th if you were an employee and received wages subject to U.S. income tax withholding. Otherwise, the due date is June 15th.


  Departing Nonresident Aliens  

Before leaving the U.S., a nonresident alien may need to file a Form 1040-C. This form confirms they have paid all tax obligations. The nonresident alien must file this form to obtain a certificate of compliance, known as the sailing or departure permit.﻿﻿ 



The certificate of compliance asserts that the nonresident alien complies with applicable tax laws as of their date of departure. However, a Form 1040-C does not remove the requirement to file an appropriate Form 1040NR for annual tax filing purposes.﻿﻿
What Is a Nontariff Barrier?  

A nontariff barrier is a way to restrict trade using trade barriers in a form other than a tariff. Nontariff barriers include quotas, embargoes, sanctions, and levies. As part of their political or economic strategy, some countries frequently use nontariff barriers to restrict the amount of trade they conduct with other countries.





Key Takeaways

A nontariff barrier is a trade restriction–such as a quota, embargo or sanction–that countries use to further their political and economic goals.Countries usually opt for nontariff barriers (rather than traditional tariffs) in international trade.Nontariff barriers include quotas, embargoes, sanctions, and levies.


   How Nontariff Barriers Work  

Countries commonly use nontariff barriers in international trade. Decisions about when to impose nontariff barriers are influenced by the political alliances of a country and the overall availability of goods and services.



In general, any barrier to international trade–including tariffs and non-tariff barriers–influences the global economy because it limits the functions of the free market. The lost revenue that some companies may experience from these barriers to trade may be considered an economic loss, especially for proponents of laissez-faire capitalism. Advocates of laissez-faire capitalism believe that governments should abstain from interfering in the workings of the free market.



Countries can use nontariff barriers in place of, or in conjunction with, conventional tariff barriers, which are taxes that an exporting country pays to an importing country for goods or services. Tariffs are the most common type of trade barrier, and they increase the cost of products and services in an importing country.



Often times countries pursue alternatives to standard tariffs because they release countries from paying added tax on imported goods. Alternatives to standard tariffs can have a meaningful impact on the level of trade (while creating a different monetary impact than standard tariffs).


   Types of Nontariff Barriers  
  Licenses  

Countries may use licenses to limit imported goods to specific businesses. If a business is granted a trade license, it is permitted to import goods that would otherwise be restricted for trade in the country.


  Quotas  

Countries often issue quotas for importing and exporting both goods and services. With quotas, countries agree on specified limits for products and services allowed for importation to a country. In most cases, there are no restrictions on importing these goods and services until a country reaches its quota, which it can set for a specific timeframe. Additionally, quotas are often used in international trade licensing agreements.


  Embargoes  

Embargoes are when a country–or several countries–officially ban the trade of specified goods and services with another country. Governments may take this measure to support their specific political or economic goals.


  Sanctions  

Countries impose sanctions on other countries to limit their trade activity. Sanctions can include increased administrative actions–or additional customs and trade procedures–that slow or limit a country’s ability to trade.


  Voluntary Export Restraints  

Exporting countries sometimes use voluntary export restraints. Voluntary export restraints set limits on the number of goods and services a country can export to specified countries. These restraints are typically based on availability and political alliances.


   Example of Nontariff Barriers  

In December 2017, the United Nations adopted a round of nontariff barriers against North Korea and the Kim Jong Un regime. The nontariff barriers included sanctions that cut exports of gasoline, diesel, and other refined oil products to the nation. They also prohibited the export of industrial equipment, machinery, transport vehicles, and industrial metals to North Korea. The intention of these nontariff barriers was to put economic pressure on the nation to stop its nuclear arms and military exercises.﻿﻿
What Is the Nordic Model?  

The Nordic model is the combination of social welfare and economic systems adopted by Nordic countries. It combines features of capitalism, such as a market economy and economic efficiency, with social benefits, such as state pensions and income distribution. The Nordic model, also known as the Scandinavian model, is most commonly associated with the countries of Scandinavia: Sweden, Norway, Finland, Denmark, and Iceland.





Key Takeaways

The Nordic model combines elements of capitalism and socialism.Important features of the Nordic model include the public provision of social services, investment in services associated with human capital, and a strong social safety net.Society-wide risk sharing is a cardinal component of the Nordic model.


   Understanding the Nordic Model  

The Nordic model embraces both the welfare state and globalization—two approaches to government that can be seen at times as opposites. The core aspects of the Nordic model include the public provision of social services funded by taxes; investment in education, child care, and other services associated with human capital; and strong labor-force protections through unions and the social safety net. There is no minimum wage because unions ensure that wages remain high.



The Nordic model emphasizes society-wide risk-sharing and the use of a social safety net to help workers and families adapt to changes in the overall economy brought on by increased global competition for goods and services. These Scandinavian economies have benefited from cultural homogeneity, political freedoms, and low levels of corruption.



Much of the model is based on how Nordic cultures have developed over the centuries. The citizens have a high degree of trust in their government and a history of working together to reach compromises and address societal challenges through democratic processes. Citizens believe that both public institutions and private companies have their best interests in mind through a general social contract, with an emphasis on fairness.



Maintaining economic growth while providing social welfare services requires Nordic countries to emphasize workforce participation. Nordic governments have to create incentives for their citizens to continue to work despite having generous welfare benefits. The finances of Nordic governments are generally considered strong, with economic growth steady. This was not always the case, as several Nordic countries struggled with low productivity and high unemployment during the 1990s.






The Nordic model is paid for by some of the world’s highest tax rates.


   The Nordic Model vs. the U.S. System  

The Nordic model is paid for by some of the highest tax rates in the world. In 2019, tax revenues as a percentage of gross domestic product (GDP) were approximately 46.3% in Denmark, 39.9% in Norway, and 42.9% in Sweden, according to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD).﻿﻿ That compares to the 24.5% of GDP raised by the United States through taxation in 2019.﻿﻿



According to TradingEconomics.com, in 2018 Sweden’s top personal income tax rate was 57.3%, Denmark’s was 55.8%, and Norway’s was 46.6%.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿ ﻿﻿ Tax rates in these countries are relatively high on nearly all income, not just that of wealthy people.



By comparison, the top tax bracket in the U.S. in 2018 was 37% and only levied on individuals who make $500,000 or more ($600,000 for married couples filing jointly).﻿﻿ A key theme under debate in the 2020 U.S. elections was whether or not the Nordic model, also known as democratic socialism, could work here.
What Is a Normal-Course Issuer Bid (NCIB)?  

A normal-course issuer bid is a Canadian term for a public company's repurchase of its own stock in order to cancel it. A company is allowed to repurchase between 5% and 10% of its shares depending on how the transaction is conducted.





Key Takeaways

An NCIB is a stock buyback program used by companies listed in Canada.The NCIB is used to raise cash, force the share price higher, ward off a takeover, or some combination of all of these.The NCIB must be approved in advance by the exchanges.



The issuer repurchases the shares gradually over a period of time, such as one year. This repurchasing strategy allows the company to buy only when its stock is favorably priced.


   Understanding the NCIB  

Public companies operating in Canada must file a Notice of Intention to Make an NCIB with the stock exchanges they are listed on and receive their approval before proceeding with a repurchase. There are limits on the number of shares the company can repurchase in a single day.



In another type of approved issuer bid, a company will repurchase a set number of shares from its shareholders at a predetermined date and price.



If a company repurchases all of its outstanding shares in this manner, it is called a going private transaction.


  Ways an NCIB Can Be Used  

Once an NCIB is approved, the company can proceed with repurchases as it sees fit during the period that has been established. The company might or might not repurchase the full number of shares it is permitted to buy.






An NCIB is launched when a company's executives believe its stock is undervalued in the market.



As with any stock repurchase program, a company undertakes an NCIB because its executives believe that the company's publicly traded stock shares are undervalued. By taking back shares, they are reducing the numbers available on the market. Their own buying activity reduces supply and raises demand, leading the price higher.



Once the value of shares rises to the desired level, the company might sell off part of its stake in order to raise cash, increase liquidity, and widen its base of investors.



Through a normal-course issuer bid, a company can take advantage of what it sees as a discount on the stock’s current price.


  Regaining Control  

An NCIB can also be a tactic designed to ward off a hostile takeover attempt. In such cases, the company is reducing the volume of its shares that are available on the market and regaining more control over its own stock.



If the repurchase is big enough it can change the concentration and makeup of stock ownership. The company may end up with a controlling interest that cannot be challenged by a third party. Once this happens, the company can maintain its control by simply releasing too few new shares to allow any single buyer to accumulate enough shares to affect shareholder votes or force its agenda on the company's board of directors.
What Is a Normal Distribution?  

Normal distribution, also known as the Gaussian distribution, is a probability distribution that is symmetric about the mean, showing that data near the mean are more frequent in occurrence than data far from the mean.



In graphical form, the normal distribution appears as a "bell curve".





Key Takeaways

The normal distribution is the proper term for a probability bell curve.In a normal distribution the mean is zero and the standard deviation is 1. It has zero skew and a kurtosis of 3.Normal distributions are symmetrical, but not all symmetrical distributions are normal.Many naturally-occurring phenomena tend to approximate the normal distribution.In finance, most pricing distributions are not, however, perfectly normal.












Investopedia / Lara Antal


   Understanding Normal Distribution  

The normal distribution is the most common type of distribution assumed in technical stock market analysis and in other types of statistical analyses. The standard normal distribution has two parameters: the mean and the standard deviation.



The normal distribution model is important in statistics and is key to the Central Limit Theorem (CLT). This theory states that averages calculated from independent, identically distributed random variables have approximately normal distributions, regardless of the type of distribution from which the variables are sampled (provided it has finite variance).



The normal distribution is one type of symmetrical distribution. Symmetrical distributions occur when where a dividing line produces two mirror images. Not all symmetrical distributions are normal since some data could appear as two humps or a series of hills in addition to the bell curve that indicates a normal distribution.


   Properties of the Normal Distribution  

The normal distribution has several key features and properties that define it.



First, its mean (average), median (midpoint), and mode (most frequent observation) are all equal to one another. Moreover, these values all represent the peak, or highest point, of the distribution. The distribution then falls symmetrically around the mean, the width of which is defined by the standard deviation.






All normal distributions can be described by just two parameters: the mean and the standard deviation.


  The Empirical Rule  

For all normal distributions, 68.2% of the observations will appear within plus or minus one standard deviation of the mean; 95.4% of the observations will fall within +/- two standard deviations; and 99.7% within +/- three standard deviations. This fact is sometimes referred to as the "empirical rule," a heuristic that describes where most of the data in a normal distribution will appear.



This means that data falling outside of three standard deviations ("3-sigma") would signify rare occurrences.












Investopedia / Sabrina Jiang


  Skewness  

Skewness measures the degree of symmetry of a distribution. The normal distribution is symmetric and has a skewness of zero.



If the distribution of a data set instead has a skewness less than zero, or negative skewness (left-skewness), then the left tail of the distribution is longer than the right tail; positive skewness (right-skewness) implies that the right tail of the distribution is longer than the left.


  Kurtosis  

Kurtosis measures the thickness of the tail ends of a distribution in relation to the tails of a distribution. The normal distribution has a kurtosis equal to 3.0.



Distributions with larger kurtosis greater than 3.0 exhibit tail data exceeding the tails of the normal distribution (e.g., five or more standard deviations from the mean). This excess kurtosis is known in statistics as leptokurtic, but is more colloquially known as "fat tails." The occurrence of fat tails in financial markets describes what is known as tail risk.



Distributions with low kurtosis less than 3.0 (platykurtic) exhibit tails that are generally less extreme ("skinnier") than the tails of the normal distribution.


   The Formula for the Normal Distribution  

The normal distribution follows the following formula. Note that only the values of the mean (μ ) and standard deviation (σ) are necessary















Normal Distribution Formula.



where:



x = value of the variable or data being examined and f(x) the probability functionμ = the meanσ = the standard deviation


   How Normal Distribution Is Used in Finance  

The assumption of a normal distribution is applied to asset prices as well as price action. Traders may plot price points over time to fit recent price action into a normal distribution. The further price action moves from the mean, in this case, the greater the likelihood that an asset is being over or undervalued. Traders can use the standard deviations to suggest potential trades. This type of trading is generally done on very short time frames as larger timescales make it much harder to pick entry and exit points.



Similarly, many statistical theories attempt to model asset prices under the assumption that they follow a normal distribution. In reality, price distributions tend to have fat tails and, therefore, have kurtosis greater than three. Such assets have had price movements greater than three standard deviations beyond the mean more often than would be expected under the assumption of a normal distribution. Even if an asset has gone through a long period where it fits a normal distribution, there is no guarantee that the past performance truly informs the future prospects.


   Example of a Normal Distribution  

Many naturally-occurring phenomena appear to be normally-distributed. Take, for example, the distribution of the heights of human beings. The average height is found to be roughly 175 cm (5' 9"), counting both males and females.



As the chart below shows, most people conform to that average. Meanwhile, taller and shorter people exist, but with decreasing frequency in the population. According to the empirical rule, 99.7% of all people will fall with +/- three standard deviations of the mean, or between 154 cm (5' 0") and 196 cm (6' 5"). Those taller and shorter than this would be quite rare (just 0.15% of the population each).














What Is Meant By the Normal Distribution?
The normal distribution describes a symmetrical plot of data around its mean value, where the width of the curve is defined by the standard deviation. It is visually depicted as the "bell curve."




Why Is the Normal Distribution Called "Normal?"
The normal distribution is technically known as the Gaussian distribution, however it took on the terminology "normal" following scientific publications in the 19th century showing that many natural phenomena appeared to "deviate normally" from the mean. This idea of "normal variability" was made popular as the "normal curve" by the naturalist Sir Francis Galton in his 1889 work, Natural Inheritance.




What Are the Limitations of the Normal Distribution in Finance?
Although the normal distribution is an extremely important statistical concept, its applications in finance can be limited because financial phenomena—such as expected stock-market returns—do not fall neatly within a normal distribution. In fact, prices tend to follow more of a log-normal distribution that is right-skewed and with fatter tails. Therefore, relying too heavily on a bell curve when making predictions about these events can lead to unreliable results. Although most analysts are well aware of this limitation, it is relatively difficult to overcome this shortcoming because it is often unclear which statistical distribution to use as an alternative.
What Are Normal Goods?  

Normal goods are consumer products such as food and clothing that exhibit a direct relationship between demand and income. As a consumer's income rises, the demand for normal goods also increases.





Key Takeaways

A normal good is a good that experiences an increase in demand due to an increase in a consumer's income.Normal goods have a positive correlation between income and demand.Examples of normal goods include food, clothing, and household appliances.


   Understanding Normal Goods  

A normal good, or necessary good, doesn't refer to the quality of the good but rather, the level of demand for the good and its relationship to the increases or decreases of a consumer's income level.



Demand for normal goods is determined by patterns of consumer behavior and as income levels rise, consumers can often afford goods that were not previously available to them. Examples of normal goods include:



FoodClothingEntertainmentTransportationElectronicsHome Appliances


   Income Elasticity of Demand  

Normal goods have a positive income elasticity of demand, where a change in demand and a change in income move in the same direction.
Income elasticity of demand measures the magnitude with which the quantity demanded changes in reaction to a change in income. It is used to understand changes in consumption patterns that result from changes in purchasing power.









Income elasticity


=




%


change in quantity purchased




%


change in income









\begin{aligned}\text{Income elasticity}=\frac{\%\text{change in quantity purchased}}{\%\text{change in income}}\end{aligned}


Income elasticity=%change in income%change in quantity purchased​​
A normal good has an income elasticity of demand that is positive, but less than one. 
If the demand for blueberries increases by 11 percent when income increases by 33 percent, then blueberries have an income elasticity of demand of 0.33, or (11/33). Blueberries qualify as a normal good.
Economists use the income elasticity of demand to determine whether a good is a necessity or a luxury item. Companies also analyze the income elasticity of demand for their products and services to help forecast sales in times of economic expansions resulting in rising incomes, or during economic downturns and declining consumer incomes.


   Normal Goods vs. Inferior Goods  

Inferior goods are the opposite of normal goods. Inferior goods are goods whose demand drops as consumers' incomes rise. As an economy improves and wages rise, consumers will prefer a more costly alternative to inferior goods. The term "inferior" doesn't refer to the quality but affordability.



Public transportation tends to have an income elasticity of demand coefficient that is less than zero, meaning that its demand falls as income rises, classifying public transport as an inferior good. Most people prefer to drive a car if given a choice and can afford it.



Inferior goods include all of the goods and services that people purchase only because they cannot afford higher-quality substitutes.


   Normal Goods vs. Luxury Goods  

Luxury goods commonly have an income elasticity of demand that is greater than one and include items like expensive cars, vacations, fine dining, and gym memberships.



Consumers tend to spend a greater proportion of their income on luxury goods as their income rises, whereas people spend an equal or lesser proportion of their income on normal and inferior goods as their income increases.


   Example of a Normal Good  

Jack earns $3,000 per month and spends 40% of his income on food and clothing or $1,200 per month. If his income rises to $3,500 per month for a 16% increase in income, Jack can afford more, so he may increase his purchases or demand for food and clothing to $1,320 per month for a 10% increase or ($1,320 - $1,200) / $1,200) x 100.



Food and clothing are considered normal goods for Jack because he increased his purchases by 10% when he realized a 16% raise. His income elasticity of demand is .625 or (10/16). Since food and clothing have an income elasticity of demand of less than one, Jack's food and clothing are normal goods.




How Are Normal Goods Affected During a Recession?
Most products, or normal goods, will experience a decrease in demand during a recession since periods of economic contraction reduce consumer income and they buy fewer goods.




What Influences Normal Goods From Inferior Goods and Luxury Goods?
Goods may be classified as normal, inferior, or luxury depending on the region or country where the item is demanded or sold.




What Is the Income Effect?
The income effect is the resulting change in demand for a good or service caused by an increase or decrease in a consumer's income or purchasing power. As income rises, the income effect assumes that people will begin to demand more goods, such as normal goods.


   The Bottom Line  

Normal goods are products such as food, clothing, and household appliances. Demand for normal goods increase as income rises. The income elasticity of demand formula measures the change in demand to a change in income.
What Is Normal Profit?  

Normal profit is a profit metric that takes into consideration both explicit and implicit costs. It may be viewed in conjunction with economic profit. Normal profit occurs when the difference between a company’s total revenue and combined explicit and implicit costs are equal to zero.





Key Takeaways

Normal profit is often viewed in conjunction with economic profit.Normal profit is a condition that exists when a company or industry's economic profit is equal to zero.Normal and economic profits differ from accounting profit, which does not take into consideration implicit costs.A company may report high accounting profit but still be in a state of normal profit if the opportunity costs of maintaining business operations are high.In macroeconomics, an industry is expected to experience normal profit during times of perfect competition.












Investopedia / Sydney Burns


   Understanding Normal Profit  

Normal profit is often viewed in conjunction with economic profit. Normal profit and economic profit are economic considerations while accounting profit refers to the profit a company reports on its financial statements each period. Normal profit and economic profit can be metrics an entity may choose to consider when it faces substantial implicit costs.


   Economic and Normal Profit  

Economic profit is the profit an entity achieves after accounting for both explicit and implicit costs.



Economic Profit = Revenues - Explicit costs – Implicit costs



Normal profit occurs when economic profit is zero or alternatively when revenues equal explicit and implicit costs.



Total Revenue - Explicit Cost - Implicit Cost = 0



or



Total Revenue = Explicit + Implicit Costs



Implicit costs, also known as opportunity costs, are costs that will influence economic and normal profit. A business will be in a state of normal profit when its economic profit is equal to zero, which is why normal profit is also called “zero economic profit.” Normal profit occurs at the point where all resources are being efficiently used and could not be put to better use elsewhere. When substantial implicit costs are involved, normal profit can be considered the minimum amount of earnings needed to justify an enterprise. Unlike accounting profit, normal profit and economic profit take into consideration implicit or opportunity costs of a particular enterprise.



When attempting to calculate economic and normal profit, it is important to understand the two components of total cost. Explicit costs are easily quantifiable and generally involve a transaction that is tied to an expense. Examples of explicit costs include raw materials, labor and wages, rent, and owner compensation. Implicit costs, on the other hand, are costs associated with not taking an action, called the opportunity cost, and are therefore much more difficult to quantify. Implicit costs come into consideration when an entity is foregoing other types of income and choosing to take a different path. Some examples of implicit costs may include rental income foregone for the sake of business property utilization, base salary income foregone by an entrepreneur choosing to run a business rather than work in another job, or the difference in projected gain from investing at one rate of return level vs. another. Businesses may analyze economic and normal profit metrics when determining whether to remain in business or when considering new types of costs.


   Example of Normal Profit  

To better understand normal profit, suppose that Suzie owns a bagel shop called Suzie’s Bagels, which generates an average of $150,000 revenue each year. Also suppose that Suzie has two employees, each of whom she pays $20,000 per year, and Suzie takes an annual salary of $40,000. Suzie also pays $20,000 annually in rent and $30,000 annually for ingredients and other supplies. After meeting with her financial advisor, Suzie learns that based on her business and her individual skills, the estimated opportunity cost of operating Suzie’s Bagels full time is $20,000 each year.



Based on this information, Suzie calculates that her average annual explicit costs are $20,000 + $20,000 + $40,000 + $20,000 + $30,000 = $130,000. This results in an accounting profit before taxes of $20,000. Because her average annual implicit costs are $20,000, her average annual total costs will be $130,000 + $20,000 = $150,000. She observes that her total costs are equal to her total revenues and determines that her bagel shop is in a state of normal profit.


   Normal Profit in Macroeconomics  

The term normal profit may also be used in macroeconomics to refer to economic areas broader than a single business. In addition to a single business, as in the example above, normal profit may refer to an entire industry or market. In macroeconomic theory, normal profit should occur in conditions of perfect competition and economic equilibrium. Conceptually this is because competition eliminates economic profit. Moreover, economic profit can serve as a key metric for understanding the state of profits comprehensively within an industry. When a company or companies are achieving economic profit, it may encourage other firms to enter the market because there is profit potential. New entrants contribute more of the product to the market, which lowers the market price of goods and has an equalizing effect on profits. Eventually, the industry reaches a state of normal profit as prices stabilize and profits decline. In the meantime, firms managing for economic profit may take action to obtain a more prominent market position, improve operational performance to lower direct costs, or cut costs to decrease indirect costs. Collectively actions from all industry participants can contribute to the level of revenue and total costs required for the normal profit level.



A similar yet inverse case can be said to apply in cases of economic loss. In theory, conditions of economic loss within an industry will drive companies to begin leaving that industry. Eventually, competition will be sufficiently reduced so as to allow the remaining companies within the industry to move toward and potentially achieve a normal profit.



Economic profit is more likely to occur in the case of a monopoly, as the company in question has the power to determine the pricing and quantity of goods sold. Such a state of affairs is largely dependent on the presence of significant barriers to entry, which prevent other firms from easily entering the market and driving costs down, thereby disrupting the prominent company’s monopoly. Generally, governments will often attempt to intervene in order to increase market competition in industries where monopolies occur, often through antitrust laws or similar regulations. Such laws are meant to prevent large and well established companies from using their foothold in the market to reduce prices and drive out new competition.


   Applications of Normal Profit  

Normal profit allows business owners to compare the profitability of their work with that of other possible business ventures. For example if Suzie from Suzie’s Bagels would like to expand her business to include sandwiches she could return to her financial advisor to obtain estimates on how her revenue and cost structure would change including any changes to her opportunity costs. After assessing her projected accounting, normal, and economic profits she can make a more informed decision on whether to expand her business.



Normal profit can be used in macroeconomics to help determine whether an industry or sector is improving or declining. As discussed, economists may choose to follow economic and normal profit projection balances of an industry when exploring macroeconomic metrics and antitrust issues. Normal profit metrics may also be used to determine whether a state of monopoly or oligopoly is occurring and appropriate steps for legislative actions in developing an industry toward more equalized competition. 






Examples of implicit costs used in normal profit calculations may include foregone rental income, foregone salary income, or foregone investment gains from investing at one projected rate of return vs. another.


   Special Considerations  

As demonstrated with Suzie’s Bagels, normal profit does not indicate that a business is not earning money. Because normal profit includes opportunity costs, it is theoretically possible for a business to be operating at zero economic profit and a normal profit with a substantial accounting profit.



It is also important to consider that implicit cost is an important element of normal profit calculations but is also one that is estimated and difficult to determine with accuracy. As such, when looking at business expansion prospects, new opportunity costs have the potential to be unreliable or involve new risks previously unaccounted for, which affects the reliability of a normal profit calculation comprehensively.
What Is Full Retirement Age (FRA)?  

Full retirement age (FRA) is the age at which you can receive full retirement benefits from Social Security. It's also known as normal retirement age. Full retirement age varies depending on the year you were born. FRA is 66 years and two months for people born in 1955, and it gradually rises to 67 for those born in 1960 or later. 



Claiming benefits before you reach full retirement age decreases them permanently.





Key Takeaways

Full retirement age (FRA) is the age you must reach to receive full retirement benefits from Social Security.Your FRA varies depending on the year you were born.The FRA in the United States is 66 years and two months for those born in 1955, increasing gradually to 67 for those born in 1960 or later.FRA can also refer to the age at which a worker is eligible to receive pension benefits.The FRA for other countries’ retirement systems also varies and is typically from 65 to 67 years of age.


   Understanding Full Retirement Age (FRA)  

The FRA for Social Security benefits in the U.S. is 67 for people born in 1960 or later. It's 66 for those born from 1943 to 1954, and 66 and two, four, six, eight, or 10 months for people born from 1955 to 1959. The retirement age increases by two months per birth year.



You can elect to receive Social Security benefits starting at age 62, but claiming benefits at a younger age than your FRA will reduce your benefit permanently. For example, your monthly benefit will be 70% of the benefit available at full retirement age if your FRA is 67 and you begin claiming benefits at age 62. You'd receive 86.7% of the full retirement benefit if you waited to start claiming benefits at age 65.



Your benefit will increase by 8% for each year you delay claiming it after your FRA if you were born in 1943 or later. Waiting until you reach age 70 will yield the maximum benefit. There’s no reason to wait beyond age 70 because your benefits won't increase any further.



FRA also applies to pension plans, such as employer-sponsored plans. Police officers, military service members, and other public servants typically receive full benefits after a certain number of service years rather than at a specific age.






Other factors, such as how much you've paid into the system over the years, affect the size of your Social Security retirement benefits. You must calculate your Social Security breakeven age to figure out the optimal age to start claiming benefits and to ensure that you properly evaluate the trade-offs between the benefits' start date and amount.


   History of Full Retirement Age  

The FRA was 65 when Social Security began in 1935. Legislation in 1983 increased the FRA for people born in 1938 or later to a maximum of 67 to account for gains in life expectancy.



Social Security’s trustees project growing deficits for the Social Security Trust Fund, drawing down its reserves to cover benefit payments. The combined reserves of Social Security's Old-Age and Survivors Insurance (OASI) trust fund and the Disability Insurance (DI) Trust Fund would be depleted by 2034, according to 2023 annual reports. This is a year later than the OASI trust fund alone is expected to pay full benefits.



Some lawmakers have cited concerns about the program's solvency in advocating a further increase in the FRA. Social Security's projected deficits could be addressed with benefit cuts, payroll tax increases, or a combination of those approaches. They might also be financed with debt alongside other deficit spending.






Use the online calculator offered by the Social Security Administration (SSA) to figure out your full retirement age.


   Average Retirement Age in the U.S.  

The average retirement age for Americans has increased, according to the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College. Even so, Americans on average are retiring before they reach full retirement age. Men retire at an average age of 64.6 years. The average retirement age for women is 62.3 years.



The research from Boston College shows that the increase in the average retirement age has been fueled in large part by the later retirements of college graduates. Men with college degrees retire three years later than men who are high school graduates.



One major reason why both men and women who are high school graduates tend to retire earlier is that their health and life expectancy hasn't improved as much as those of college graduates. Their jobs also tend to be more physically demanding. They're not able to take as much time off as workers with college degrees.


   Full Retirement Age Around the World  

FRA around the world can be as young as 56 but it typically ranges between 65 and 67. It can differ for men and women in some countries.



Australia: 65 being phased to 67Brazil: 65 (men); 62 (women, raised from 60)Canada: 65China: 60 (men); 50 (blue-collar women); or 55 (white-collar women)France: 62Germany: 65 and nine or 10 months (depending on birth year, and gradually increasing to 67 for those born in 1964 or after)India: 60Indonesia: 56 (gradually increasing to 65 by 2043)Japan: 65Mexico: 65Philippines: 60Russia: 61.5 for men (gradually increasing to 65 by 2028) and 56.5 for women (gradually increasing to 60 by 2028)South Korea: 62 (gradually increasing to 65 by 2033)United Kingdom: 66 (to be increased to 67 by 2028)




What Is My Social Security Full Retirement Age?
Your full retirement age is 66 years and two months if you were born in 1955. It gradually increases to age 67 for those born in 1960 or later.




How Much Does Early Retirement Affect Social Security Benefits?
You can take Social Security benefits as early as age 62 but doing so will permanently reduce your benefits to 70% of what you would have received at full retirement age.




Can I Work After Full Retirement Age?
You can collect Social Security retirement benefits at full retirement age while continuing to work, but your benefits will be temporarily reduced if you begin collecting Social Security before your full retirement age and you earn over $21,240 as of 2023.There's no limit on how much you can earn while collecting full benefits beginning with the month and year in which you reach your FRA, but $1 will be deducted for every $3 you earn over $56,520 in 2023 up to the month in the calendar year you reach FRA, These earnings thresholds are periodically adjusted to keep pace with inflation.


   The Bottom Line  

Full or "normal" retirement age is the age at which you can begin to collect full Social Security benefits. The exact age depends on the year you were born. It's 67 if you were born in 1960 or later. You can collect Social Security benefits before you reach your full retirement age beginning at age 62, but it will permanently reduce your monthly benefit.
What is the Normal Yield Curve?  

The normal yield curve is a yield curve in which short-term debt instruments have a lower yield than long-term debt instruments of the same credit quality. This gives the yield curve an upward slope. This is the most often seen yield curve shape, and it's sometimes referred to as the "positive yield curve."



Analysts look to the slope of the yield curve for clues about how future short-term interest rates will trend. When there is an upward sloping yield curve, this typically indicates an expectation across financial markets of higher interest rates in the future; a downward sloping yield curve predicts lower rates.


   Understanding Normal Yield Curve  

This yield curve is considered "normal" because the market usually expects more compensation for greater risk. Longer-term bonds are exposed to more risk such as changes in interest rates and an increased exposure to potential defaults. Also, investing money for a long period of time means an investor is unable to use the money in other ways, so the investor is compensated for this through the time value of money component of the yield.



In a normal yield curve, the slope will move upward to represent the higher yields often associated with longer-term investments. These higher yields are compensating for the increased risk normally involved in long-term ventures and the lower risks associated with short-term investments. The shape of this curve is referred to as normal, over the additionally applicable term of positive, in that it represents the expected shift in yields as maturity dates extend out in time. It is most commonly associated with positive economic growth.





Key Takeaways

The normal yield curve is a yield curve in which short-term debt instruments have a lower yield than long-term debt instruments of the same credit quality.An upward sloping yield curve suggests an increase in interest rates in the future.A downward sloping yield curve predicts a decrease in future interest rates.


   Yield Curves as an Indicator  

The yield curve represents the changes in interest rates associated with a particular security based on the length of time until maturity. Unlike other metrics, the yield curve is not produced by a single entity or government. Instead, it is set by measuring the feel of the market at the time, often referring to investor knowledge to help create the baseline. The direction of the yield curve is considered a solid indicator regarding the current direction of an economy and can be easily charted.


   Other Yield Curves  

Yield curves can also remain flat or become inverted. In the first instance, the flat curve demonstrates the returns on shorter and longer term investments are essentially the same. Often, this curve is seen as an economy approaches a recession because fearful investors will move their funds into lower risk options, driving up the price and lowering the overall yield.



Inverted yield curves present a point where short-term rates are more favorable than long-term rates. Its shape is inverted when compared to a normal yield curve, representing significant changes in market and investor behaviors. At this point, a recession is generally seen as imminent if it is not already occurring.
What are Normalized Earnings?  

Normalized earnings are adjusted to remove the effects of seasonality, revenue, and expenses that are unusual or one-time influences. Normalized earnings help business owners, financial analysts, and other stakeholders understand a company's true earnings from its normal operations. An example of this normalization would be to remove a land sale from a retail firm's financial statements in which a large capital gain was realized, as selling products—not selling land—is the company's real business.


   Understanding Normalized Earnings  

Normalized earnings represent a company's earnings that omit the effects of nonrecurring charges or gains. To better present a company's core business, the one-off effects of these profits or losses are removed as they can muddy the picture. Additionally, normalized earnings can be used to present a firm's earnings while taking into account seasonal or cyclical sales cycles.



In short, normalized earnings are the most accurate assessment of a company's true financial health and performance. Many companies incur one-off expenses, such as large lawyer fees, or earn one-off gains, such as the sale of old equipment. In both of these cases, even though the costs and revenues are realized and affect the company's short-term cash flow, they are not indications of the company's long-term performance. To analyze the firm properly, these effects have to be removed.





Key Takeaways

Normalized earnings remove one-off events and smooth seasonal effects on revenue.Normalized earnings better represent the true health of a company's core business.Normalized earnings per share can be used to compare two companies where one has suffered or benefited from a number of one-off events.


   Examples of Normalized Earnings  

The most common form of earnings normalization occurs when expenses or revenues must be removed, or sales cycles must be smoothed. When normalizing large, one-off costs or earnings, there are two types of normalization adjustments. If, for example, a company that owns a fleet of trucks decides to sell the depreciating assets and purchase new ones, both the earnings and the expenses from the sale are removed to normalize its earnings. An accountant or analyst would do this by looking at the company's income statement and removing the money generated from other comprehensive income. It would then remove the operating expense or debt financing used to purchase the new trucks.



Another scenario where expenses are removed to normalize a company's earnings is in the event of an acquisition or purchase. When this occurs, the salary, wages, and other expenses paid to owners and officers of the company are removed, since they won't be part of the new organization.



The remaining scenario that commonly involves normalizing is dealing with the earnings for companies with sales cycles or seasonality. With situations like this, earnings are adjusted using a moving average over a number of periods. The simplest form of this is an arithmetic average. If, for example, a company earns $100 in January, $150 in February, and $200 in March, and uses a two-month moving average, its normalized earnings would be $125 for February and $175 for March.


   The Advantage of Normalized Earnings  

For investors, the biggest advantage to normalized earnings is that it allows for a more accurate comparison between companies. Common metrics like earnings per share (EPS) can be drastically affected by the period when they are calculated, particularly if a significant cost or profit unrelated to the core business occurs in the period. By using normalized earnings per share, investors can better analyze and compare companies based on the health of their core operations rather than the temporary boost or hit of a one-off event.
What Is Normative Economics?  

Normative economics is a perspective on economics that reflects normative, or ideologically prescriptive judgments toward economic development, investment projects, statements, and scenarios.



Unlike positive economics, which relies on objective data analysis, normative economics is concerned with value judgments and statements of what "ought" to be. It expresses ideological judgments about what may result in economic activity if public policy changes are made. Normative economic statements can't be verified or tested.





Key Takeaways

Normative economics aims to determine what should happen or what ought to be.While positive economics describe economic programs, situations, and conditions as they exist, normative economics aims to prescribe solutions.Normative economics expresses ideological judgments about what may result in economic activity if public policy changes are made.Behavioral economics tends to be a normative project.Normative economics cannot be verified or tested.












Investopedia / Yurle Villegas


   Understanding Normative Economics  

Normative economics aims to determine people's desirability or the lack thereof to various economic programs, situations, and conditions by asking what should happen or what ought to be. Therefore, normative statements typically present an opinion-based analysis in terms of what is thought to be desirable. For example, stating that the government should strive for economic growth of x% or inflation of y% could be seen as normative.



Behavioral economics has also been accused of being normative in the sense that cognitive psychology is used to steer ("nudge") people to make desirable decisions by engineering their choice architecture.



As positive economics describe economic programs, situations, and conditions as they exist, normative economics aims to prescribe solutions. Normative economic statements are used to determine and recommend ways to change economic policies or to influence economic decisions.





Positive vs. Normative

The difference between positive and normative economics is that positive economics is concerned with how an economy behaves, while normative economics makes a value judgment on the desirability of certain outcomes.


   Normative Economics vs. Positive Economics  

Normative economics may be useful in establishing and generating new ideas from different perspectives, but it cannot be the only basis for making decisions on important economic issues, as it does not take an objective angle that focuses on facts and causes and effects.



Economic statements coming from the positive economics angle can be broken down into determinable and observable facts that can be examined and tested. Because of this characteristic, economists and analysts often practice their professions under the positive economic angle. Positive economics, being the measurable perspective, helps policymakers and other government and business authorities decide on important matters that affect particular policies under the guidance of fact-based findings.



However, policymakers, business owners, and other organizational authorities also typically look at what is desirable and what is not for their respective constituents, making normative economics an important part of the equation when deciding on important economic matters. Paired with positive economics, normative economics can branch into many opinion-based solutions that mirror how an individual or one whole community portrays particular economic projects. These kinds of views are especially important for policymakers or national leaders.






Normative economics is closely related to behavioral economics, the branch of psychology that examines the decisions of human actors. Some of the insights of behavioral economics include subtle ways to "nudge" consumers towards a desirable behavior, without compelling or forbidding any one choice.


   Examples of Normative Economics  

An example of normative economics would be the statement: "We should cut taxes in half to increase disposable income levels." By contrast, a positive or objective economic observation would be, "Based on past data, big tax cuts would help many people, but government budget constraints make that option unfeasible."



Here are more examples of normative statements:



Women should earn the same salary as men. People should drive electric cars instead of consuming fossil fuels. Companies should not use child labor. 



Normative statements cannot be tested or proved, and they typically contain keywords such as "should" and "ought."


  Real Examples  

Normative economics come into play whenever policymakers use economic incentives to affect human behavior. A common example is sin taxes on alcohol and tobacco: rather than prohibit these vices, the government may simply impose a tax that discourages the undesirable behavior. These taxes imply a value judgment on the social value of alcohol and tobacco consumption.



Another interesting example includes the income gaps between men and women, or between workers of different ethnicities. Although these wage gaps were once uncontroversial, they are now recognized as a sign of the inherent unfairness of the prevailing economic system.



Wage gaps can be a demonstration of both positive and normative economics. For example, a study on the wage differential between thousands of employees would be an example of positive economics, if it does not attempt any policy prescriptions. But a study that tests different policies to reduce the gap would be normative economics because it makes a clear value judgment against wage gaps.




What Is a Normative Statement in Economics?
In economics, normative statements are those that state a value judgment or preference on one outcome over another. Statements on how to prevent certain tragedies, raise wages or otherwise improve conditions are considered normative statements.




What Is a Positive Statement in Economics?
In economics, a positive statement is one that attempts to assess an objective reality without making a value judgment. For example, a study on rental costs would be an example of positive economics. A study that claims that the rent is too high is an example of normative economics.




What Is the Difference Between Normative and Behavioral Economics?
Behavioral economics is a discipline that studies the psychological factors that influence the behavior of economic actors. This is closely related to normative economics, which often uses the tools of behavioral economics to change the way humans make decisions. A simple example is a decision to place healthy fruit near the cash register of a high school cafeteria: by placing the healthy option in a prominent location, students are subtly encouraged to make the healthier decision.


   The Bottom Line  

Normative economics aims to reach desirable outcomes. Unlike positive economics, normative thinking is explicitly value-driven, and based on the ideology and preferences of each individual economist. This type of economic thinking is often used by policymakers to influence the behavior of consumers and the public.
What Was the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA)?  

The North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) was implemented to promote trade between the U.S., Canada, and Mexico. The agreement, which eliminated most tariffs on trade between the three countries, went into effect on Jan. 1, 1994. Numerous tariffs—particularly those related to agricultural products, textiles, and automobiles—were gradually phased out between Jan. 1, 1994, and Jan. 1, 2008.





Key Takeaways:

The North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) was implemented in 1994 to encourage trade between the U.S., Mexico, and Canada.NAFTA reduced or eliminated tariffs on imports and exports between the three participating countries, creating a huge free-trade zone.Two side agreements to NAFTA aimed to establish high common standards in workplace safety, labor rights, and environmental protection, to prevent businesses from relocating to other countries to exploit lower wages or looser regulations.The United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA), which was signed on Nov. 30, 2018, and went into full force on July 1, 2020, replaced NAFTA.NAFTA was a controversial agreement: By some measures (trade growth and investment), it improved the U.S. economy; by others (employment, balance of trade), it hurt the economy.












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   Understanding NAFTA  

NAFTA’s purpose was to encourage economic activity among North America's three major economic powers: Canada, the U. S., and Mexico. Proponents of the agreement believed that it would benefit the three nations involved by promoting freer trade and lower tariffs among Canada, Mexico, and the United States.






During the 2016 presidential election, Donald Trump campaigned on a promise to repeal NAFTA and other trade agreements he deemed "unfair" to the United States.



On Aug. 27, 2018, President Donald Trump announced a new trade deal with Mexico to replace NAFTA. The U.S.-Mexico Trade Agreement, as it was called, would maintain duty-free access for agricultural goods on both sides of the border and eliminate non-tariff barriers while also encouraging more agricultural trade between Mexico and the United States.



On Sept. 30, 2018, this agreement was modified to include Canada. The United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) took effect on July 1, 2020, completely replacing NAFTA. If not renewed, the USMCA will expire in 16 years.



A Sept. 30, 2018, joint press release from the U.S. and Canada Trade Offices stated:



“USMCA will give our workers, farmers, ranchers, and businesses a high-standard trade agreement that will result in freer markets, fairer trade, and robust economic growth in our region. It will strengthen the middle class and create good, well-paying jobs and new opportunities for the nearly half billion people who call North America home."


   History of NAFTA  

About one-fourth of all U.S. imports, such as crude oil, machinery, gold, vehicles, fresh produce, livestock, and processed foods, originate from Mexico and Canada, which are, respectively, the United States' second- and third-largest suppliers of imported goods, as of 2019. In addition, approximately one-third of U.S. exports, particularly machinery, vehicle parts, mineral fuel/oil, and plastics are destined for Canada and Mexico.



NAFTA legislation was developed during George H. W. Bush's presidency as the first phase of his Enterprise for the Americas Initiative. The Clinton administration, which signed NAFTA into law in 1993, believed it would create 200,000 U.S. jobs within two years and 1 million within five years because exports play a major role in U.S. economic growth. The administration anticipated a dramatic increase in U.S. imports from Mexico as a result of the lower tariffs.


   Additions to NAFTA  

NAFTA's provisions were supplemented by two other regulations: the North American Agreement on Environmental Cooperation (NAAEC) and the North American Agreement on Labor Cooperation (NAALC). These tangential agreements were intended to prevent businesses from relocating to other countries to exploit lower wages, more lenient worker health and safety regulations, and looser environmental regulations.



NAFTA did not eliminate regulatory requirements on companies wishing to trade internationally, such as rule-of-origin regulations and documentation requirements that determine whether certain goods can be traded under NAFTA. The free-trade agreement also contained administrative, civil, and criminal penalties for businesses that violate any of the three countries’ laws or customs procedures.


   Provisions of NAFTA  

The full text of the trade agreement consisted of 22 chapters, divided into eight sections, as well as additional annexes and appendices. Each of these sections was broadly aimed at facilitating trade within the hemisphere and eliminating trade barriers.



The most important provisions were:


  Elimination of Trade Barriers  

One of the main goals of NAFTA was to eliminate most tariffs and other restrictions on trade between the three countries. Prior to the implementation of NAFTA, high import tariffs discouraged cross-border trade in some manufactured goods.



In addition, the agreement also sought to eliminate non-tariff barriers to trade such as border processing and licensing requirements.


  Intellectual Property Protections  

NAFTA also provided increased protections for intellectual property, such as trade secrets and computer software. These protections increased the incentives for cross-border trade because they reduced the risk of losing business secrets to an international competitor.


  Environmental and Labor Protections  

In response to critics who argued that NAFTA would lead to a decline in environmental and labor standards, the Clinton administration negotiated several side agreements to ensure protections for the environment and labor rights.



The first of these, the North American Agreement on Labor Cooperation, included provisions to prevent child labor and other abuses but stopped short of protecting the right to organize. The second, the North American Agreement on Environmental Cooperation, introduced a commission to assess the results of liberalization on environmental regulations.


  Dispute Resolution  

In order to further facilitate cross-border trade, the agreement included a dispute resolution process for disagreements between investors, businesses, and state governments. This process was heavily criticized in all three countries, as it was seen as a way for multinational corporations to overrule local regulations.


   North American Industry Classification System  

The three NAFTA signatory countries developed a new collaborative business-classification system that facilitates the comparison of business activity statistics across North America. The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) organizes and separates industries according to their production processes.



The NAICS replaced the U.S. Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) system, allowing businesses to be classified systematically in an ever-changing economy. The new system enables easier comparability between all countries in North America. To ensure that the NAICS remains relevant, the system is reviewed every five years.



The three parties responsible for the formation and continued maintenance of the NAICS are the Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Geografía in Mexico, Statistics Canada, and the United States Office of Management and Budget through its Economic Classification Policy Committee, which also includes the Bureau of Economic Analysis, Bureau of Labor Statistics, and the Bureau of Census. The first version of the classification system was released in 1997. A revision in 2002 reflected the substantial changes occurring in the information sector. The most recent revision, in 2017, created 21 new industries by reclassifying, splitting, or combining 29 existing industries.






The next scheduled review of NAICS will take place in 2022.



This classification system allows for more flexibility than the SIC's four-digit structure by implementing a hierarchical six-digit coding system and classifying all economic activity into 20 industry sectors. Five of these sectors are primarily those that produce goods, and the remaining 15 sectors provide some type of service. Every company receives a primary NAICS code that indicates its main line of business. A company receives its primary code based on the code definition that generates the largest portion of the company's revenue at a specified location in the past year.



The first two digits of a NAICS code indicate the company's economic sector. The third digit designates the company’s subsector. The fourth digit indicates the company's industry group. The fifth digit reflects the company’s NAICS industry, and the sixth designates the company’s specific national industry.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of NAFTA  

NAFTA's immediate aim was to increase cross-border commerce in North America, and it did indeed spur trade and investment among its three member countries by limiting or eliminating tariffs. It was especially advantageous to small or mid-size businesses because it lowered costs and did away with the requirement of a company to have a physical presence in a foreign country to do business there.


  Increased Trade  

Most of the increase came from trade between the U.S and Mexico or between the U.S. and Canada., though Mexico-Canada trade grew as well. Overall, there was $1.0 trillion in trilateral trade from 1993 to 2015, a 258.5% increase in nominal terms (125.2% when adjusted for inflation). Real per-capita gross domestic product (GDP) also grew slightly in all three countries, primarily Canada and the U.S.



During the NAFTA years, U.S. trade deficits (importing more from a nation than you export) did increase, especially with Mexico. So did inflation.


  Intellectual Property Protections  

NAFTA protected non-tangible assets like intellectual property, established dispute-resolution mechanisms, and, through the NAAEC and NAALC, implemented labor and environmental safeguards. It increased U.S. competitiveness abroad and "exported" higher U.S. workplace safety and health standards to other nations.


  Job Loss and Immigration  

From the beginning, NAFTA critics were concerned that the agreement would result in U.S. jobs relocating to Mexico, despite the supplementary NAALC. In fact, many companies did subsequently move their manufacturing operations to Mexico and other countries with lower labor costs—in particular, thousands of U.S. auto workers and garment-industry workers were affected in this way. However, NAFTA may not have been the reason for all those moves.



Some critics also cite the rising wave of Mexican immigrants to the U.S. as a result of NAFTA—partly because the expected convergence of U.S. and Mexican wages didn’t happen, thus making the U.S. more attractive to Mexican workers.





Pros

A spurred surge in cross-border trade and investment
Increased competitiveness of U.S. industry
Opened up opportunities for small businesses
Implemented universal, higher health, safety, and environmental standards



Cons

Caused loss of manufacturing jobs, especially in certain industries
Increased inflation in the U.S.
Increased U.S. trade deficits
May have spurred Mexican immigration





   NAFTA vs. USMCA  

The U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) entered into force on July 1, 2020. Basically, it builds on NAFTA, using the older legislation as a basis for a new agreement. But it does have some differences.



Some are simple updates, expanding the tariff ban on new technologies and industries. Most notably, the USMCA prohibits tariffs on digital music, e-books, and other digital products. The agreement also establishes copyright safe harbor for internet companies, meaning they can't be held liable for copyright infringements by users.



Another change moves the labor and environmental protections of the original side agreements into the main agreement, meaning issues like the right to organize are now subject to the pact’s normal procedures for settling disputes.



In particular, it revised and toughened labor laws relating to Mexico, establishing an independent investigatory panel that can investigate companies accused of violating workers' rights, and stop shipments from those found to be in violation of labor laws. It also compelled Mexico to enact a wide array of labor reforms, to improve working conditions and increase wages.



Here are some other distinctions between the two agreements, indicating qualifications for tariff-free status and other rules.










Comparing NAFTA and USMCA




Provision
NAFTA
USMCA


Autos
62.5% of vehicle components must be made in North America
75% of components be North American in origin; 40%-45% of parts be from a factory paying $16/hour


 Pharmaceuticals
Protections for certain drug classes from cheaper alternatives
Protections eliminated


 Dairy
Protected market in Canada, limiting access
Allows U.S. farmers access to up to 3.6% of the Canadian market and vice versa


Investor-state dispute settlement mechanism
Allows companies to sue governments for unfair treatment 
Eliminated, except for certain Mexican industries


Intellectual-property protections
50 years
70 years


Treaty sunset provision
 None
Treaty to be reviewed after 6 years; expires after 16 years unless extended







What Was the Main Goal of NAFTA?
NAFTA aimed to create a free trade zone between the U.S., Canada, and Mexico. The goal was to make doing business in Mexico and Canada less expensive for U.S. companies (and vice versa), reducing the red tape needed to import or export goods.




How Did NAFTA Work?
Among its three member nations, NAFTA eliminated tariffs and other trade barriers to agricultural and manufactured goods, along with services. It also removed investment restrictions and protected intellectual property rights. Side agreements addressed environmental and labor concerns, attempting to establish a common high standard in each country.




Is NAFTA Still in Effect?
No, NAFTA was effectively replaced by the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA). Signed on Nov. 30, 2018, it went into full effect on July 1, 2020.




Did NAFTA Help the U.S. Economy?
Whether NAFTA helped the U.S. economy is a matter of some debate. Certainly, trade between the United States and its North American neighbors more than tripled, from roughly $290 billion in 1993 to more than $1.1 trillion in 2016. Cross-border investments also surged, and U.S. GDP overall rose slightly.But economists find it's been tough to target the deal’s direct effects from other factors, including rapid technological change and expanded trade with countries such as China. Meanwhile, debate persists regarding NAFTA’s effect on employment (which was badly hit in certain industries) and wages (which largely remained stagnant).




How Did Canada Benefit From NAFTA?
"NAFTA has had an overwhelmingly positive effect on the Canadian economy. It has opened up new export opportunities, acted as a stimulus to build internationally competitive businesses, and helped attract significant foreign investment," states the Canadian government's website.More specifically, since NAFTA went into full effect, U.S. and Mexican investments in Canada have tripled. U.S. investment alone grew from $70 billion in 1993 to more than $368 billion in 2013. Total merchandise trade between Canada and the United States more than doubled since 1993 and grew nine-fold between Canada and Mexico.


   The Bottom Line  

Debate continues surrounding NAFTA's impact on its signatory countries. There were significant gains, some serious losses—and some results that are hard to unravel.



While the United States, Canada, and Mexico have all experienced increased trade, economic growth, and higher wages (mainly in the northern nations) since NAFTA’s implementation, experts disagree on how much the agreement actually contributed to, if at all, U.S. manufacturing, jobs, immigration, and the price of consumer goods. Nor has NAFTA affected all three of its member nations to the same degree or in the same ways.



So, the overall, actual impact of the agreement is hard to isolate, especially from the lingering effects of the 2007-09 Great Recession, and other significant economic, technological, and industrial trends that have occurred on the continent and globally in the past quarter-century. Often, NAFTA gets blamed for developments that are not directly its fault, or that may have happened anyway.



In a sense, NAFTA stands as a symbol for globalization and free trade. So views and analyses of it are often projected through the lens of opinion about these subjects in general.
What Is the North American Industry Classification System?  

The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) is a business classification system developed through a partnership among the United States, Canada, and Mexico. This classification system facilitates the comparison of statistics of all business activities across North America. Companies are classified and separated into industries that are defined by the same or similar production processes. This system should not be confused with the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) or the National Association of Investors Corp. (NAIC).


   Understanding the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)  

The NAICS was established to replace and modernize the U.S. Standard Industrial Classification system. The new system enables easier comparison of all countries in North America. To ensure the NAICS continues to be relevant, there is a planned system review every five years.


   The History of the NAICS  

The NAICS is a collaborative effort. The three parties responsible for the formation and continued maintenance of the NAICS are the Instituto Nacional de Estadistica y Geografia in Mexico, Statistics Canada, and the United States Office of Management and Budget through its Economic Classification Policy Committee, staffed by the Bureau of Economic Analysis, Bureau of Labor Statistics, and the Census Bureau.



The first version of the classification system was released in 1997. A revision in 2002 included substantial changes to the construction, wholesale trade, retail trade, and information sectors. In 2012, there was a slight reduction in the number of industries in the system and modifications were made to some of the system’s sector classifications. The latest revision, which occurred in 2022, reduced the number of industries from 1,057 to 1,012. Changes in size standards were also included in the revision, with seven sectors of industries affected.


   NAICS Coding System  

The NAICS classification system allows for more flexibility than the four-digit structure of the SIC. It uses a hierarchical six-digit coding system, classifying all economic activity into 20 different industry sectors. Five of these sectors are primarily those that produce goods while the remaining 15 sectors provide some type of service. Every company receives a primary NAICS code, indicating its main line of business. This primary code is determined by the code definition that generates the largest revenue for a company at a specified location in the past year.



NAICS codes are narrowed from 20 sector codes into 96 three-digit subsector codes, further divided into 308 four-digit industry codes, subdivided into 689 five-digit industry codes, and ultimately broken down into 1,012 six-digit NAICS codes.


   Reading a NAICS Code  

The first two digits of a NAICS code indicate the largest business sector in which a company operates. The third digit designates the company’s subsector, and the fourth digit indicates the industry group to which the company belongs. The fifth digit of the code reflects the company’s particular industry of operation. The sixth and final digit designates the company’s specific national industry. Soybean farming, for example, has the NAICS code 111110, which is broken down to sector 11, subsector 111, industry group 1111, industry 11111, NAICS code 111110.
What Is the North American Securities Administrators Association (NASAA)?  

The North American Securities Administrators Association (NASAA) is an organization of securities regulators whose aim is to protect investors from fraud. Founded in 1919 in the U.S. state of Kansas, its membership of 67 securities administrators from across North America works to protect customers of investment advice or securities as part of a complementary regulatory system that works at the federal, state/provincial, and industry levels.





Key Takeaways

Organized in 1919, the North American Securities Administrators Association (NASAA) is the oldest international regulatory organization devoted to investor protection.NASAA is a voluntary association whose membership consists of 67 state, provincial, and territorial securities administrators in the 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Canada, and Mexico.It works to protect customers of investment advice and securities as part of a complementary regulatory system that works at the federal, state/provincial, and industry levels.NASAA seeks to help investors identify and avoid fraud by educating the public, investigating violations of state and provincial law, and filing enforcement actions.


   Understanding the North American Securities Administrators Association (NASAA)  

NASAA seeks to help investors identify and avoid fraud by educating the public, investigating violations of state and provincial law, and filing enforcement actions. Its membership is made up of regulators that may be appointed, hired for career-focused positions, or are under the jurisdiction of their states' Attorneys General. These regulators are responsible for licensing securities firms and investment professionals—such as broker-dealers and investment advisers—registering certain securities offerings, reviewing financial offerings of small companies, auditing branch office sales practices and record-keeping, promoting investor education, and most importantly, enforcing state securities laws.﻿﻿



In addition to protecting investors, some state regulators may help small businesses raise money and stay in compliance with securities laws. Some regulators may work in a department that also regulates insurance or banking.﻿﻿



NASAA's membership is made up of securities regulators from all 50 U.S. states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Canada, and Mexico.﻿﻿ NASAA's website features a variety of investor and professional resources, including a fraud center that lists top investor traps, a fraud awareness quiz, fraud red flags, how to contact a local securities regulator, and how to investigate a broker or investment adviser.


   Special Considerations  

NASAA members work within the government to protect investors and ensure the integrity of the securities industry in the following ways:



Licensing stockbrokers, investment adviser firms (those managing less than $100 million in assets), and securities firms that conduct business in the state.Registering certain securities offered to the states’ investors.Investigating investor complaints and potential cases of investment fraudEnforcing state securities laws by fining, penalizing, providing restitution to investors, prosecuting white-collar criminals, and imposing legally binding conduct remedies designed to correct specific problems.Examining brokerage and investment adviser firms to ensure compliance with securities laws and maintenance of accurate records of client accounts.Reviewing certain offerings that are not exempt from state law.Educating investors about their rights and providing the tools and knowledge they need to make informed financial decisions.Advocating passage of strong, sensible, and consistent state securities laws and regulations.



NASAA also administers the Series 63, Series 65, and Series 66 regulatory examinations, which licenses financial professionals to function as an agent. In most states, the Series 63 is a requirement for all registered securities agents.
What Is North Sea Brent Crude?  

North Sea Brent Crude is a blended light sweet crude oil recovered from the North Sea in the early 1960s. Brent crude oil has relatively low sulfur content and a relatively high gravity on the American Petroleum Institute’s standard scale.



Pricing for North Sea Brent crude, classified as a sweet light crude, serves as the most widely used benchmark for other worldwide oil markets.





Key Takeaways

North Sea Brent Crude is a blended light sweet crude oil recovered from the North Sea in the early 1960s.Pricing for North Sea Brent crude, classified as a sweet light crude, serves as the most widely used benchmark for other worldwide oil markets.Light sweet crude oils are simpler to process into products such as gasoline, which means they tend to fetch higher prices on commodity markets.Since the oil crisis of the late 1970s, the vast majority of crude oil commodity sales have taken place on the futures market. Investors typically trade Brent-related commodity contracts either as a hedge or on a speculative basis. Those taking hedge positions include companies that produce and market crude oil, as well as refineries or other entities that process the oil. 


   Understanding the North Sea Brent Crude  

North Sea Brent crude contains a blend of oils recovered from the oilfield systems in the North Sea.



Categorization of this crude is as a light-sweet crude, due to its low density and low sulfur content. Light sweet crude oils are simpler to process into products such as gasoline because they contain a higher proportion of hydrocarbon molecules than other oils. Therefore, they tend to fetch higher prices on commodity markets. Sweet crude is a classification of petroleum that contains less than 0.42 percent sulfur. Sulfur is undesirable in crude oils because it lowers the yield of high-value refined products including gasoline and plastics. 



Benchmark crude oil serves as an investment tool for the industry in setting a point to act as a standard of comparison when evaluating different varieties of crude oil. Another significant benchmark crude is West Texas Intermediate (WTI) which is lighter and sweeter than North Sea Brent crude. WTI futures and options are the most actively traded energy products in the world.


   Investing in North Sea Brent Crude  

Since the oil crisis of the late 1970s, the vast majority of crude oil commodity sales have taken place on the futures market. Brent futures are available on the Intercontinental Exchange in Europe as well as the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX). Options linked to the North Sea Brent crude benchmark are also widely available.



Investors typically trade Brent-related commodity contracts either as a hedge or on a speculative basis. Those taking hedge positions include companies that produce and market crude oil, as well as refineries or other entities that process the oil. Hedging strategies for firms in fuel-dependent industries, such as airlines, may also take advantage of Brent-related contracts.



For example, some hedging strategies involve trading on crack spreads related to Brent, in which traders take simultaneous long and short positions in Brent crude and finished products that use Brent crude as a raw material. For these types of trades to pay off, the price differential between the raw materials and the finished goods must widen over time. This type of contract might appeal to an oil refinery seeking to protect its profit margin from price volatility in the crude oil market.


   History of North Sea Area Crude Oil  

This large North Sea deposit is bounded by the United Kingdom, Norway, the Netherlands, Germany, France, Denmark, and Belgium. Active oil fields include the Brent, Forties, Oseberg, Ekofisk, and Ninian systems.



Oil was discovered in the area in 1859, but it was not until 1966 that commercial exploration of the fields was undertaken. Commercial exploration grew in the 1970s, just before the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries  (OPEC) oil crisis. The first pipeline transportation shortly after 1975. The high quality of the oil, coupled with regional stability of the North Sea area and OPEC oil embargo fears, made the cost of production of the North Sea Brent crude beneficial.



At the time of exploration, Shell UK Exploration and Production would name production oilfields after birds. The North Sea field derives its name from the brent goose, a North American species.
What Is the Norwegian Krone (NOK)?  

The Norwegian krone (NOK) is the official currency of Norway. Its regulation and circulation are controlled by the country's central bank, the Norges Bank. The bank has issued its eighth series of banknotes, including the latest in November 2019, which saw new 1000-krone bills. The year before introduced the new 50-krone and 500-krone bills and 2017 brought the new 100-krone and 200-krone bills.



As of August 2022, $1 USD is equal to roughly 9.77 NOK. A single Norwegian Krone is worth $0.10 cents.





Key Takeaways

The Norwegian krone (NOK), which began circulation in 1875, is the official currency of Norway.The krone's regulation and circulation are controlled by the country's central bank, the Norges Bank. The Norwegian krone currency code is "NOK" and its symbol is "kr."Coins come in denominations of 1, 5, 10, and 20 krone, and banknotes are divided into 50, 100, 200, 500, and 1,000 denominations.The Norwegian Krone has a value of $0.10 cents as of August 23, 2022.


   Understanding the Norwegian Krone  

The Norwegian krone, or kroner (the plural term), subdivides into 100 øre. The english translation for the word krone is "the crown." Coins come in denominations of 1, 5, 10, and 20 krone and banknotes appear in denominations of 50, 100, 200, 500, and 1,000 kroner. The currency symbol is “kr.”



The new banknotes feature images of Norwegian maritime history on the front, while the back shows an abstract of sea and wind in the form of a cubic pattern. For example, the 50-krone note has a green tint, an image of the Utvær Lighthouse on the front, and the back features an abstract rendition of the light signal from a lighthouse as well as a the constellation Ursa Major.


   History of the Krone  

The first circulation of the krone came in 1875 when it became the replacement of the speciedaler. At the time, the conversion rate was four kroner for one speciedaler. Following the switch, Norway joined the Scandinavian Monetary Union, an alliance that existed until the outbreak of World War I. During the existence of the Union, the Norwegian krone on the gold standard until 1931 when it was pegged to the British pound.



In 1939 the country's currency was pegged to the U.S. dollar (USD), but during the German occupation of Norway in the Second World War, it was pegged to the Reichsmark. At the war's end, the currency was pegged to the British pound (GBP). Shortly after, the krone was pegged to the US dollar until 1971 when it free floats in the market for seven years until it is linked to a basket of currencies. Then in 1992, the central bank moved away from a fixed exchange rate, allowing the currency to float based on the foreign currency exchange rate.






The 10 Syrian pound so closely resembles the 20 Norwegian kroner that it can fool many coin-operated, automated service machines in Norway.


   Economic Impact on the NOK's Value  

As with all currencies, economic trends trigger fluctuation in the value of the Norwegian krone. Currency investors may seek out the NOK when the euro’s (EUR) value is in doubt. Increased activity in trading the NOK may increase the rate of exchange. Changes in the global price of crude oil also affect the NOK's value as Norway is Western Europe’s leading oil exporter.



Norway's shipping, hydroelectric power, fishing, and manufacturing all contribute to the country's gross domestic product (GDP). However, it is interesting to note that many industries are state-owned. Historically, the krone is a prudent investment as Norway stakes claim to one of Europe’s most stable economies.



Norway is one of the wealthiest countries on the globe and enjoys one of the highest standards of living. According to the latest World Bank data, Norway has a high-income economy with slow population growth at 0.5% annually. GDP growth for 2021 came in at 3.9% while the inflation deflator was at 16.9%.






Don't confuse the Norwegian Krone with the similarly-named Danish Krone (DKK) or Swedish Krona (SEK). The Norwegian krone is worth 9% more than the Swedish Krona.


   Example of the Norwegian Krone  

To understand the value of the Norwegian krone in Norway, it is helpful to examine the currency's buying power with respect to familiar consumer goods. According to The Economist's popular "Big Mac" Index, as of June 2022, the cost of a Big Mac in Norway averaged out to 62 krone in 2022, a figure equal to about $5.15 U.S. dollars. This is the second most expensive Big Mac in the world, just behind Switzerland.



The average monthly salary in Norway was 50,800 NOK, according to Statistics Norway, a figure that converts to $5,178. Much of that salary is subject to income taxes, which are returned to the public in the form of health care and generous welfare programs.




Is the U.S. Dollar Stronger Than the Norwegian Krone?
The U.S. dollar is stronger than the Norwegian Krone and has steadily strengthened against it since 2015. This is likely due to changes in the respective interest rates between the two countries, fluctuations in the price of oil, and the weakening of the Eurozone economy.




What Is the Norwegian Krone to USD Exchange Rate?
One U.S. dollar is equal to 9.77 Norwegian Krone (NOK) as of August 23, 2022.




Is the Norwegian Krone a Safe Haven?
The Norwegian Krone is generally considered a safe currency, in that its value is not likely to be affected by failures in other markets. Although it is occasionally affected by domestic troubles, the Norwegian economy is relatively stable and the currency is unlikely to see any sharp changes in value.




Is the Norwegian Krone a Good Investment?
Although the Norwegian Krone (NOK) is generally considered a safe and reliable currency, it falls to each individual investor to decide whether it is worth investing in.




Does Norway Use the Euro?
Norway is not a member state of the European Union, and therefore is not eligible to use the Euro. However, the Norwegian economy is closely tied to the Eurozone, and the country is a member of the European Economic Area.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is a Nostro Account?  

A nostro account refers to an account that a bank holds in a foreign currency at another bank. Nostros, a term derived from the Latin word for "ours," are frequently used to facilitate foreign exchange and trade transactions. The opposite term "vostro accounts"—derived from the Latin word for "yours"—is how a bank refers to the accounts that other banks have on their books denominated in the holding bank's home currency.





Key Takeaways

Nostro accounts simplify the process of exchanging and trading in foreign currencies.Major examples of convertible currencies are the U.S. dollar, the Canadian dollar, the British pound, the euro, and the Japanese yen.The bank that is holding a nostro or vostro account may be called the "facilitator" bank.Nostro accounts aren't the same as standard demand deposit accounts because these types of accounts are denominated in foreign currencies.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   How a Nostro Account Works  

A nostro account and a vostro account actually refer to the same entity but from a different perspective. For example, Bank X has an account with Bank Y in Bank Y's home currency. To Bank X, that is a nostro, meaning "our account on your books," while to Bank Y, it is a vostro, meaning "your account on our books."



These accounts are used to facilitate international transactions and to settle transactions that hedge exchange-rate risk.



Prior to the advent of the euro as a currency for financial settlements on Jan. 1, 1999, banks needed to hold nostro accounts in all the countries that now use the euro.



Since that date, one nostro account for the entire eurozone has been sufficient. If a country were to leave the eurozone, either voluntarily or involuntarily, banks would need to re-establish nostros in that country in its new currency in order to continue making payments.






Most large commercial banks worldwide hold nostro accounts in every country with a convertible currency.


   Example of a Payment Using a Nostro Account  

The following example illustrates the process of making a payment using a nostro account. Bank A in the U.S. enters into a spot foreign-exchange contract to buy British pounds from Bank B, which is in Sweden.



On the settlement date, Bank B must deliver pounds from its nostro account in the U.K. to the nostro account of Bank A, also in the U.K. On the same day, Bank A must pay dollars in the U.S. to the nostro account of Bank B.


   Limitations on Nostro Accounts  

The central banks of many developing countries limit the buying and selling of their currencies, which is usually to control imports and exports and to control the exchange rate. Banks generally don't hold nostro accounts in those countries, as there is little or no foreign exchange business.



When a bank needs to make a payment in a country where it doesn't hold a nostro account, it can use a bank with which it has a correspondent relationship to make the payment on its behalf.




Are Nostro Accounts Similar to Traditional Demand Deposit Accounts?
Nostro accounts differ from demand deposit accounts, which are held in the currency of the bank where they are located. Nostro accounts hold their balances in a foreign currency, that of the other country where the bank's nostro account is based.




What Does Nostro Stand For?
Nostro is a word derived from the Latin term for "ours." These accounts are frequently used to facilitate foreign exchange and trade transactions in an efficient way.




Are There Fees Charged for Nostro Accounts?
There are fees charged for nostro accounts. Because it is an additional feature, banks with nostro facilities usually charge maintenance fees that may be expensive. Individuals don't have nostro accounts.


   The Bottom Line  

Nostro accounts simplify the process of exchanging and trading in foreign currencies because they ease transactions conducted in another currency while helping hedge exchange-rate risk. These accounts are most often held in the major convertible currencies: U.S. or Canadian dollars, the British pound, the euro, or the Japanese yen.



The opposite term, vostro account, is the way in which a bank refers to the accounts that foreign banks have on their books that are denominated in the holding bank's home currency. The bank holding a nostro or vostro account may be called the "facilitator" bank. Nostro accounts differ from standard demand deposit accounts because they are denominated in foreign currencies. Also, only businesses or governments have nostro or vostro accounts, they aren't offered in the same way to individual account holders.
What Does Not for Profit Mean?  

Not-for-profit organizations do not earn profits for their owners. All of the money earned by or donated to a not-for-profit organization is used in pursuing the organization’s objectives and keeping it running; income is not distributed to the group’s members, directors, or officers.



Typically, organizations in the nonprofit sector are tax-exempt charities or other types of public service organizations; as such, they are not required to pay most taxes. Some well-known nonprofit organizations include the American Red Cross, the United Way, and The Salvation Army. There are also nonprofit corporations known as nonstock corporations, which are usually formed for such purposes as clubs, rescue squads, and religious and charitable organizations.





Key Takeaways

In a not-for-profit organization, all funds either earned or donated must be used for pursuing the group’s objectives and paying its running costs.Nonprofit funds never go to the group’s members, directors, or officers.Many nonprofits have a lot in common with for-profit organizations and use similar business tactics and management techniques to run their enterprises.Every not-for-profit organization has to maintain compliance with the state agency that regulates charitable organizations where it is based.


   Charitable Purposes of a Not for Profit Organization  

If someone sees a need in their community or elsewhere in the world, they can research their idea and put together a business plan outlining the proposed nonprofit’s objectives and how it plans to meet those goals.



Almost anyone can start a not-for-profit group and apply for tax-exempt status, but many not-for-profit organizations won’t qualify for 501(c)(3) status, as it is only for charitable organizations. Not-for-profit organizations can be social clubs that exist to serve their members, social welfare organizations, civic leagues, labor organizations, and business leagues. These would be tax exempt but not 501(c)(3).



Most not for profit organizations fall into one the following categories:



Relieve Poverty. Not for profit organizations may engage in work to provide basic necessities to those without simple amenities.Advance Education. Not for profit organizations may engage in work to increase people's knowledge or skillsets.Advance Religion. Not for profit organizations may engage in work to establish, maintain, or follow a religious faith.May Community Benefit. Not for profit organizations may provide other resources not mentioned above for the betterment and welfare of the community, though this is not required.


   Activities of Not for Profit Organizations  

Not for profit organizations often classify their activities in one of the three ways: fundraising, program, and administrative. The fundraising activities of a not for profit may range from public major events to more private, smaller fundraising opportunities. Not for profit organizations may also solicit direct donations, sell products, or rely on major gifts.



These funds are used to pay for the two remaining types of activities. First, most of the fundraised funds should go to the not for profit's program. This is the mission it was created to serve, and money is spent to help solve the problem that caused the nonprofit to be formed in the first place.



Funds are also used to pay for administrative expenses. For example, some back office functions like a bookkeeper are not directly related to offering program services. However, a bookkeeper is an essential part in maintaining the reporting requirements necessary to remain a not for profit. For this reason, not for profits often must spend at least a small portion of donations on expenses not directly tied to their mission.


   Not for Profit and Taxes  

To achieve tax-exempt status, the organization needs to request 501(c)(3) status from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). To qualify, the organization’s purpose must be one of the following: charitable, religious, educational, scientific, literary, testing for public safety, fostering national or international amateur sports competition, or preventing cruelty to children or animals. 



If desired, a not-for-profit organization can also opt to incorporate. Once registered and running, it has to maintain compliance with the appropriate state agency regulating charitable organizations.



Thanks to their tax-exempt status, not-for-profit organizations are not subject to most forms of taxation, including sales tax and property taxes. In most cases, only donations made to nonprofit 501(c)(3) organizations are tax-deductible. Not-for-profit organizations can be social organizations, sports clubs, etc. without a charitable purpose, so even if they are tax-exempt, donations might not be tax deductible for donors.



For example, if a church is established as a not-for-profit organization, it does not pay property taxes on the house of worship that it owns. Similarly, if a not-for-profit charity accepts clothing donations, sells the clothing, and uses the money for its charitable purposes, it does not pay property tax on the building that it uses as its store.



However, not-for-profit organizations must remit payroll taxes on behalf of their employees. Similarly, the employees and directors who receive income from a not-for-profit organization must report the income to the IRS.


   For-Profit vs. Not for Profit   

Aside from the distinguishing feature that a not-for-profit organization does not distribute profits to its owners, many nonprofits have much in common with for-profit organizations. For example, while some not-for-profit organizations use only volunteer labor, many large or even medium-sized ones are likely to require a staff of paid full-time employees, managers, and directors. Indeed, as not-for-profit enterprises wish to accomplish their objectives in the same way as for-profit enterprises, business tactics and management techniques honed in the for-profit world often work well in not-for-profit organizations, too.



Finally, while for-profit businesses can engage in a huge range of activities, not-for-profit businesses must operate exclusively as a charity or for scientific, religious, or public safety purposes. Additionally, not-for-profit organizations may exist to collect income to dispense to other qualifying charities.






Even tax-exempt not-for-profit organizations are required to remit payroll taxes on behalf of their employees, who also must report income from nonprofits to the IRS.


   Nonprofit vs. Not for Profit  

Both nonprofits and not for profits exist to operate an entity that does not earn a profit for the owners of the entity. Both are often overseen by a board of directors, and all money raised by the entity are spent either on supporting the entity's mission and programmatic goals or used to support the administrative costs of running the entity.



Not for profit organizations vary from nonprofits in that they often may not offer a broad public benefit. Instead, not for profit organizations may exist to serve the best interest for a select few. Consider the example of a private sports club. This club's purpose is not to better the entire community but a select subset of community members. This organization may still be formed in a way to capitalize on favorable IRS legislation; however, they are not formed for the explicit benefit of the public good.



In addition, nonprofits may have a different legal structure. Nonprofits can have a separate legal structure while not for profit organizations can not. Nonprofits often operate to maximize the net proceeds collected (to then be spent on the mission), while not for profit organizations may simply exist to provide a non-financial benefit. Last, not for profit organizations are often run by volunteers, whereas non-profits are more likely to have paid staff.


   Common Problems That Not for Profits Encounter  

In a survey of nonprofits in the United States and Canada released by the Nonprofit Research Collaborative in 2019, staffing was the biggest problem encountered by those surveyed; 18% identified challenges managing transitions in staff and the staff being too small. Salaries, of course, are generally higher in the for-profit world. The next most common problem, at 11%, was with donors: their cultivation, acquisition, and retention, as well as communications with them. Tying for third place at 10% was the state of the economy and the concomitant national mood and the impact of tax laws.



Organizational issues (involving boards, leadership, fundraising, and budgeting) clocked in at 9%, while local issues (especially too many nonprofits competing for funds) and problems with articulating a mission or purpose and creating programs to fulfill it tied at 8%. Other concerns included starting and ending campaigns, changing demographics, and government funding.



One problem not specifically mentioned in the survey (it would fall under the rubric of organizational issues) is what is termed “founder’s syndrome,” according to the Maine Association of Nonprofits. This happens when the founder of a nonprofit organization resists changes necessary to keep the group alive and thriving.



The founder may have assembled a like-minded board when starting the organization, but as time passes and board members change, different ideas about what the group should be doing and how to go about it may arise, especially when external forces present new challenges.



If a founder is trying to preserve their original vision when the organization needs to grow and change, founder’s syndrome has set in. As the board, not the founder, is responsible for running the show, this can lead to the difficult step of replacing the founder when compromise proves impossible.




Can a Not for Profit Organization Make Money?
Yes, in the sense that it can seek donations to fund its operations and may end up with a surplus of money in its coffers at the end of the fiscal year. However, all of that money eventually must be used to fund the organization’s operations; it cannot be distributed to the organization’s owners as profit.




Are All Nonprofits 501(c)(3) Organizations?
No. The 501(c)(3) designation made by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) only goes to charitable organizations. Social groups and sports clubs are two examples of organizations that can be tax exempt but not have 501(c)(3) status. Generally, organizations existing for scientific, religious, or public safety purposes can be tax exempt but not have 501(c)(3) status.




Are Donations to All Not for Profits Tax Deductible?
No. Only donations made to organizations that have a charitable purpose are allowed as itemized tax deductions by the IRS.


   The Bottom Line  

Not for profit organizations exist to better the world; as opposed to nonprofit organizations, they may exist to better not the general public but only a subset of people. Not for profit organizations may still receive favorable tax treatment through the IRS, and, compared to a business, its main intention is to not necessarily to maximize its net income or net assets.
What Is a Not-Held Order?  

A not-held order gives a broker the time and price discretion to seek the best price available. The broker is not held responsible for any potential losses or missed opportunities that result from their best efforts. A held order, in contrast, requires immediate execution.



The not-held order is usually a market or limit order.





Key Takeaways

An investor may place a not-held order in hopes of obtaining a better price than could be obtained with an immediate transaction.The not-held gives the broker time to aim for the best possible fill for the client.Not-held orders may be placed as market orders or limit orders.Not-held orders absolve the broker from any losses that the shareholder may suffer if the broker misses an opportunity while waiting for a better price.


   Understanding the Not-Held Order  

An investor placing a not-held order is trusting that the broker can obtain a better market price than the investor can get by accessing the market directly. The broker has price and time discretion, but may not be held responsible for any losses due to a missed opportunity.



This order is also known as a discretionary or "with discretion" order.



The broker is "not held" liable for failing to execute a trade above or below an attached limit price. For example, a broker may have received a with discretion order to buy 1,000 shares of ABC with an upper limit of $16. The broker might think the market is about to fall and will not buy the stock when it is trading below $16. Instead, the market rallies and the broker can’t execute the order below $16. Since it was a not-held order, the investor has no recourse or grounds to complain.



Not-held orders are most common when trading international equities.



The orders that most investors place most of the time are held orders. That is, they require immediate execution at the current market price.


   When to Use Not-Held Orders  

Not-held orders are not widely used in liquid markets since the volume of activity gives the investor ample opportunity to get in and out of a position with ease.



When a market or security is illiquid or moves erratically, a not-held order may give the investor more peace of mind.



Illiquid Stocks: A not-held order allows a broker to try for a better price than might be achieved when forced to place an immediate order and pay a wide bid-ask spread. For example, if the best bid in XYZ is $0.20 and the lowest offer is $0.30, the broker could initially sit at the top of the bid at $0.21 and incrementally increase the order’s price with the hope of not having to pay the much higher offer price.
Periods of Increased Volatility: An investor may opt for a not-held order during a period of high volatility, such as after an earnings announcement, a broker downgrade, or a macroeconomic release, such as the U.S. jobs report. Brokers use their judgment based on similar events in the past to determine the best time and price to execute the order.


   Types of Not-Held Orders  

Market Not-Held Order: This is a market order that expires at the end of the trading day. An investor might give the broker a market not-held order to buy 1,000 Apple (AAPL) with an instruction to execute the order at the best price available before the market closes.Limit Not-Held Order: An upper or lower limit is attached to the not-held order, but the broker is given discretion in executing it even if the market trades at the limit price. For instance, a broker may receive a limit not-held order to buy 1,000 AAPL with an upper limit price of $200. This means that the investor would, ideally, like to buy AAPL at $200, but would prefer not to pay more than that. The broker, though, may not fill the order at $200 if that price seems too high at the time. The broker is not held responsible if the order does not get executed or gets executed at a price other than what the investor indicated.


   Benefits of Not-Held Orders  

Brokers have the benefit of seeing order flows and trading patterns, which often gives them an edge when determining the best price and time to execute a customer’s order. For example, a broker may notice a recurring spike in volume on the buy-side of the order book that suggests a stock’s price is likely to continue rising. This would result in the broker executing a client’s not-held order sooner rather than later.


   Limitations of Not-Held Orders  

The investor who gives a not-held order to a broker is placing full confidence in that broker to execute the trade at the best possible price. The investor cannot dispute the trade execution, provided that the broker met all regulatory requirements.



For instance, if an investor thinks the broker shouldn't have executed the not-held order before an FOMC interest rate announcement, the investor cannot seek a rebooking.
What Is a Notary?  

A notary is a publicly commissioned official who serves as an impartial witness to the signing of a legal document. Document signings where the services of a notary are generally necessary are real estate deeds, affidavits, wills, trusts, powers of attorney, bills of sale, or other official transactional documents. The main reason a notary is used is to deter fraud.





Key Takeaways

A notary is an impartial witness to the signing or authentication of a legal document.Examples in which notaries are required include real estate deeds, affidavits, wills, trusts, and powers of attorney.Notaries must be at least 18 years old and reside in the state where they are licensed. Thereafter the steps to becoming a notary differ from state to state.The National Notary Association (NNA) is a good resource for education and information about notaries.


   Understanding the Role of a Notary  

A notary—also referred to as a notary public—can be used to create trusted documentation or that a transaction occured and was officially recorded. For a document to be notarized, it must contain a stated commitment. The document must also contain original signatures from the parties involved.



Before signing a document, notaries ask for photo identification from the participating parties. A notary can refuse to authenticate a document if they are uncertain about the identity of the signing parties or if there is evidence of fraud. The document then receives a notarial certificate and the seal of the notary who witnessed the signings.






Notaries cannot refuse to witness a document based on race, nationality, religion, or sex.


   Notary History  

According to the National Notary Association (NNA), notaries were used as far back as 2750 B.C.E. in Egypt and Sumeria. Called scribes by the Egyptians, these writers and witnesses documented much of the history of the ancient world. The Roman Empire used notarii and scribae to witness and document everything from speeches to weather and to create official documents. The first recognized notary was Tiro, a Roman servant who developed a shorthand for recording speeches.



The Chinese also used scribes to document events, teachings, log resource and labor data, and help the state function with detailed accounting.






Notaries accompanied Christopher Columbus on his voyages to assure King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella that all discoveries were valid.



Writer Mark Twain was a notary, while Salvador Dali, Leonardo Da Vinci, and Calvin Coolidge, the 30th president of the United States, were the sons of notaries. Coolidge remains the only president sworn into office by a notary, his father.



Women were not allowed to be notaries until the 1900s but now outnumber male notaries, according to the NNA.


   How to Become a Notary  

The steps to becoming a notary vary from state to state. Broadly, notaries must be at least 18 years old and reside in the state where they are licensed.



Costs to become a notary include training, supplies, a bond, and the oath of office. Notaries cannot give legal advice and can be fined for doing so. They are also not to act in situations where they have a personal interest.



Requirements vary, but in general, most states require you to:



Meet all state requirementsRegister for an approved notary course and attend itPass an examComplete an application, get it notarized and submit it with any required documentationUpon approval, take your oath of office, pay a fee, and buy your notary seal



Additionally, many states do not allow someone to become a notary if they have a prior felony or misdemeanor conviction.


   Where Can I Notarize a Document?  

Many notaries provide their services and create listings or web pages with contact information. Many packaging stores, postal centers, postal services, and copy centers have notaries employed also. Some places you can get a document notarized are:



Post officesBanks and credit unionsReal estate firmsTax and accounting OfficesLibrariesCollegesShipping stores



You can also look online for online notaries in your area. Some states began exploring electronic and remote notary options during the Covid-19 pandemic.Many states have enacted legislation authorizing Remote Online Notarization (RON) following the Covid-19 outbreak and pandemic.



Using RON, you can access the services of a notary online from anywhere as long as your state's requirements are met. Most states place regulatory compliance on the office of the Secretary of State—you can check with your Secretary of State to see if RON is available.




What Does a Notary Do?
A notary is a public official trusted by a state government to witness signatures and verify that transactions occurred or that something documented actually happened.




What Does It Take to Become a Notary?
To become a notary, you need to meet your state's requirements, then go through a learning and application process. You also may be required to take an exam. Once you pass, you're sworn into office as a notary.




How Much Does It Cost to Be a Notary?
The fees to be a notary vary by state. In some states, notaries are required to recertify, adding to the costs. They also must buy their seal.


   The Bottom Line  

Notaries have served an essential function in government and society for thousands of years. From documenting crop yields in the past to verifying documents and signatures over the internet, notaries continue to ensure that information provided can be trusted.



All states and counties have notaries. You can find a notary in many businesses—you might even find one living next door. If you live in a remote area or cannot otherwise find a notary, many states have enacted legislation to make it easier to have your documents notarized through remote technologies.
What Is Notching?  

Notching is the practice by credit rating agencies to give different credit ratings to the particular obligations or debts of a single issuing entity or closely related entities.



Rating distinctions among obligations are made based on differences in their security or priority of claim. With varying degrees of losses in the event of default, obligations are subject to being notched higher or lower. Thus, while company A may have an overall credit rating of "AA," its rating on its junior debt may be "A."





Key Takeaways

Notching is when a credit rating agency bumps up or down the credit rating on an issuer's specific debts or obligations.This is different than a credit agency upgrading or downgrading the company or issuer as a whole.Because certain types of debt—for instance, subordinated debts—are inherently riskier than senior debts, the rating on junior debts can be notched lower.Similarly, those debts from the issuer that are senior and secured by collateral may be notched higher.Debt notches are evaluated by comparing the individual credit ratings of two or more bonds.


   How Notching Works  

Companies are given credit scores by specialist credit rating agencies, which evaluate a firm's creditworthiness and its ability to meet its debt payments and other obligations. However, a company may also issue several types of debts (e.g., secured vs. unsecured) or related types of obligations (such as preferred shares or convertible bonds). As a result, the credit rating on those particular debts or obligations may differ somewhat from the issuing company's overall credit rating due to unique risks or restrictions on those obligations.



Moody's Investors Service ("Moody's) and Standard & Poor's Financial Services ("S&P") are two major credit rating agencies that notch up or notch down instruments within the same corporate family depending on placement in an obligor's capital structure and their level of collateral.



The base from which an instrument is notched in either direction is an obligor's senior unsecured debt (base = 0), or the corporate family rating (CFR). Notching also applies to the structural subordination of debt issued by operating subsidiaries or holding companies, according to S&P. As an example, the debt of a holding company of an enterprise could be rated lower than the debt of the subsidiaries, the entities that directly own the enterprise's assets and cash flows.






Notching is not a precise science and credit rating agencies may use different approaches to determine the credit risk of bond and debt issuers. As a result, it is not uncommon for different credit rating agencies to assign different credit ratings to the same issuer. 


   Moody's Updated Notching Guidance  

In 2017, Moody's published an update to its 2007 notching methodology. This most recent guidance indicated as "applicable in most cases" was as follows:



Senior secured debt: +1 or +2 notches above the base (0)Senior unsecured debt: 0Subordinated debt: -1 or -2Junior subordinated debt: -1 or -2Preferred stock: -2



In a small number of cases, Moody's will notch beyond the -2 to +2 range under one or more of the following circumstances:



An unbalanced capital structure results in a particular obligation comprising a very small or large proportion of total debt.A legal regime is less predictable.There is extra complexity in the legal structure of a corporation.





Tranche Notching

Notching is not just used to evaluate the credit risk of bond and debt issuers. It is also used to evaluate the credit risk of other types of financial instruments, such as structured finance products, such as collateralized debt obligations (CDOs). CDOs are complex securities that are backed by a pool of assets, such as mortgages or corporate bonds. The credit risk of a CDO is determined by evaluating the credit risk of the assets that make up the pool. This process is known as "tranche notching," and it involves assigning different credit ratings to different tranches (or slices) of the CDO based on the level of subordination of the tranches. Tranches that are more highly subordinated (i.e., ranked lower in the repayment hierarchy) are considered to be more risky and are assigned lower credit ratings. Tranches that are more senior (i.e., ranked higher in the repayment hierarchy) are considered to be less risky and are assigned higher credit ratings.


   Example of Notching  

Imagine that ABC Company has issued two corporate bonds: Bond A and Bond B. Bond A is a senior bond, which means that it has a higher priority for repayment in the event of default compared to Bond B. Bond B is a junior bond, which means that it has a lower priority for repayment.



ABC Company's creditworthiness is evaluated by a credit rating agency, which determines that the company has a strong financial profile and is likely to be able to make timely interest and principal payments on both Bond A and Bond B. As a result, the credit rating agency assigns ABC Company an A credit rating and assigns both Bond A and Bond B an A credit rating as well.



However, over time, ABC Company's financial performance begins to deteriorate. It takes on more debt and its profits decline, which raises concerns about its ability to meet its financial obligations. As a result, the credit rating agency conducts a review of ABC Company's creditworthiness and decides to downgrade the company's overall credit rating from A to BBB.



In this case, the credit rating agency would use notching to express the difference in credit risk between Bond A and Bond B. Since Bond A is a senior bond, it is considered to be less risky than Bond B and is assigned a BBB+ credit rating. Bond B, on the other hand, is considered to be more risky and is assigned a BBB- credit rating. The difference in credit risk between Bond A and Bond B is expressed as two notches, with Bond A having a higher credit rating (and a lower notch) than Bond B.















Bond Notches.
Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021




What Is a Notch in Bond Rating?
In bond trading, a notch is a measure of the difference in credit risk between two bonds, usually issued by the same issuer. It is calculated by taking the difference in the credit ratings of the two bonds and expressing it in terms of notches. For example, if one bond has a credit rating of A- and another bond has a credit rating of BBB+, the difference in credit risk between the two bonds would be expressed as one notch.




Why Is Notching Important?
Notching is important because it helps investors to make informed decisions about the creditworthiness of the various bonds and debt instruments issued by the same issuers by using easy to understand ratings, grades, or scores. By understanding the likelihood of default, investors can determine the level of risk they are willing to take on when investing in a particular bond or debt issuer. This is especially important for investors who are considering purchasing high-yield bonds, as these bonds are generally considered to be more risky than investment-grade bonds. Notching can also be used by bond and debt issuers to determine their own creditworthiness, as it can help them to identify any areas where they may need to improve their financial health in order to attract investors.




What Is a Notch Downgrade?
A notch downgrade is a decrease in the credit rating of a particular bond from a debt issuer. It is expressed in terms of notches, with each notch representing a difference in credit risk. For example, if a bond issuer's credit rating is downgraded from A- to BBB+, the downgrade would be expressed as one notch.A notch downgrade can occur when the creditworthiness of the bond or debt issuer deteriorates. This can be due to a variety of factors, including declining financial performance, increased debt levels, or changes in market conditions that affect the issuer's ability to meet its financial obligations. A notch downgrade can have significant implications for the issuer, as it may make it more difficult for the issuer to access funding in the future and may also lead to an increase in the issuer's borrowing costs. It can also have negative consequences for investors in the issuer's bonds, as a downgrade may indicate an increased risk of default and may lead to a decrease in the value of the bonds.




What Is Subordination-Based Notching?
Subordination-based notching is a method of rating the credit risk of bond or debt issuers based on the level of subordination of the issuer's debts. Subordination refers to the ranking of debts in terms of priority for repayment in the event that the issuer becomes bankrupt or is unable to meet its financial obligations. Debts that are ranked higher in the subordination hierarchy are considered to be more senior and are more likely to be repaid in the event of default.Subordination-based notching is used to determine the credit rating of an issuer by taking into account the level of subordination of the issuer's debts. For example, an issuer with highly subordinated debts (i.e., debts that are ranked lower in the subordination hierarchy) may be assigned a lower credit rating than an issuer with more senior debts. This is because the issuer with highly subordinated debts is considered to be at a higher risk of default, as it is less likely to have the financial resources available to meet its obligations. Subordination-based notching is often used in the evaluation of structured finance instruments, such as collateralized debt obligations (CDOs).


   The Bottom Line  

Notching is the process of rating the credit risk of the various bonds from the same debt issuer, such as a company or a government, using discrete rating levels, or notches. So, if a company issues several bonds, not every one may receive the same credit rating based on its relative riskiness, terms, features, subordination, and clauses. It is used to determine the likelihood that the issuer will default on its debt obligations. Notching can be used to determine the credit rating of an issuer, which is a measure of the issuer's ability to make timely interest and principal payments. Notching can also be used to determine the risk premium that investors should demand for taking on the risk of investing in the bond or debt issuer.
What Is a Note?  

A note is a legal document that serves as an IOU from a borrower to a creditor or an investor. Notes have similar features to bonds in which investors receive interest payments for holding the note and are repaid the original amount invested—called the principal—at a future date.



Notes can obligate issuers to repay creditors the principal amount of a loan, in addition to any interest payments, at a predetermined date. Notes have various applications, including informal loan agreements between family members, safe-haven investments, and complicated debt instruments issued by corporations.





Key Takeaways

A note is a legal document representing a loan made from an issuer to a creditor or an investor.Notes entail the payback of the principal amount loaned, as well as any predetermined interest payments.The U.S. government issues Treasury notes (T-notes) to raise money to pay for infrastructure.


   Understanding Notes  

A note is a debt security obligating repayment of a loan, at a predetermined interest rate, within a defined time frame. Notes are similar to bonds but typically have an earlier maturity date than other debt securities, such as bonds. For example, a note might pay an interest rate of 2% per year and mature in one year or less. A bond might offer a higher rate of interest and mature several years from now. A debt security with a longer maturity date typically comes with a higher interest rate—all else being equal—since investors need to be compensated for tying up their money for a longer period.



However, notes can have many other applications. A note can refer to a loan arrangement such as a demand note, which is a loan without a fixed repayment schedule. Payback of demand notes can be called in (or demanded) at any point by the borrower. Typically, demand notes are reserved for informal lending between family and friends or relatively small amounts.



Notes can be used as currency. For example, Euro notes are the legal tender and paper banknotes used in the eurozone. Euro notes come in various denominations, including five, 10, 20, 50, and 100 euros.


   Notes as Investment Vehicles  

Some notes are used for investment purposes, such as a mortgage-backed note, which is an asset-backed security. For example, mortgage loans can be bundled into a fund and sold as an investment—called a mortgage-backed security. Investors are paid interest payments based on the rates on the loans.



Notes used as investments can have add-on features that enhance the return of a typical bond. Structured notes are essentially a bond, but with an added derivative component, which is a financial contract that derives its value from an underlying asset such as an equity index. By combining the equity index element to the bond, investors can get their fixed interest payments from the bond and a possible enhanced return if the equity portion on the security performs well.



It's important to remember that with any note or bond issued by a corporation, the principal amount invested may or may not be guaranteed. However, any guarantee is only as good as the financial viability of the corporation issuing the note.


   Notes with Tax Benefits  

Some notes are purchased by investors for their income and tax benefits. Municipal notes, for example, are issued by state and local governments and can be purchased by investors who want a fixed interest rate. Municipal notes are a way for governments to raise money to pay for infrastructure and construction projects. Typically, municipal notes mature in one year or less and can be exempt from taxes at the state and/or federal levels.


   Notes as Safe-Havens  

Treasury notes, commonly referred to as T-notes, are financial securities issued by the U.S. government. Treasury notes are popular investments for their fixed income but are also viewed as safe-haven investments in times of economic and financial difficulties. T-notes are guaranteed and backed by the U.S. Treasury, meaning investors are guaranteed their principal investment.



T-notes can be used to generate funds to pay down debts, undertake new projects, improve infrastructure, and benefit the overall economy. The notes, which are sold in $100 increments, pay interest in six-month intervals and pay investors the note's full face value upon maturity. Treasury notes are offered with maturity dates of two, three, five, seven, and 10 years. As a result, T-notes generally have longer terms than Treasury bills but shorter terms than Treasury bonds.






Issuers of unsecured notes are not subject to stock market requirements that force them to publicly avail information affecting the price or value of the investment.


   Other Types of Notes  

There are many other various types of notes that are issued by governments and companies, many of which have their own characteristics, risks, and features.


  Unsecured Note  

An unsecured note is a corporate debt instrument without any attached collateral, typically lasting three to 10 years. The interest rate, face value, maturity, and other terms vary from one unsecured note to another. For example, let's say Company A plans to buy Company B for a $20 million price tag. Let's further assume that Company A already has $2 million in cash; therefore, it issues the $18 million balance in unsecured notes to bond investors.



However, since there is no collateral attached to the notes, if the acquisition fails to work out as planned, Company A may default on its payments. As a result, investors may receive little or no compensation if Company A is ultimately liquidated, meaning its assets are sold for cash to pay back investors.



An unsecured note is merely backed by a promise to pay, making it more speculative and riskier than other types of bond investments. Consequently, unsecured notes offer higher interest rates than secured notes or debentures, which are backed by insurance policies, in case the borrower defaults on the loan.


  Promissory Note  

A promissory note is written documentation of money loaned or owed from one party to another. The loan’s terms, repayment schedule, interest rate, and payment information are included in the note. The borrower, or issuer, signs the note and gives it to the lender, or payee, as proof of the repayment agreement.



The term "pay to the order of" is often used in promissory notes, designating the party to whom the loan shall be repaid. The lender may choose to have the payments go to them or to a third party to whom money is owed. For example, let's say Sarah borrows money from Paul in June, then lends money to Scott in July, along with a promissory note. Sarah designates that Scott’s payments go to Paul until Sarah’s loan from Paul is paid in full.


  Convertible Note  

A convertible note is typically used by angel investors funding a business that does not have a clear company valuation. An early-stage investor may choose to avoid placing a value on the company in order to affect the terms under which later investors buy into the business.



Under the termed conditions of a convertible note, which is structured as a loan, the balance automatically converts to equity when an investor later buys shares in the company. For example, an angel investor may invest $100,000 in a company using a convertible note, and an equity investor may invest $1 million for 10% of the company’s shares.



The angel investor’s note converts to one-tenth of the equity investor’s claim. The angel investor may receive additional shares to compensate for the added risk of being an earlier investor.
What Is a Notice of Assessment?  

A notice of assessment (NOA) is an annual statement sent by the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) to taxpayers detailing the amount of income tax they owe. It includes details such as the amount of their tax refund, tax credit, and income tax already paid. It also lists deductions from total income, total nonrefundable federal tax credits, total British Columbia nonrefundable federal tax credits, and other figures.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

For Canadian taxpayers, a notice of assessment (NOA) is a government-issued estimate of taxes owed for a given year.Corrections made to these estimates will also appear on an NOA, and filers have 90 days to formally object or make amendments to any of the information on the document.An NOA may also signal that a business or individual has been identified for a tax audit.


   Understanding Notices of Assessment  

The figures in an NOA are calculated based on the information taxpayers submit on their tax returns. It lists any changes to them, including corrections made to the information they submitted.﻿﻿



An NOA also indicates whether an individual or business is subject to an audit. Tax filers have within 90 days of the date noted on the NOA to make formal objections online or by mail. They would have to provide supporting documentation, but they won’t owe any disputed tax payments until the CRA completes its investigation.﻿﻿






A notice of assessment is an annual statement sent by the Canada Revenue Agency to taxpayers detailing the amount of income tax they owe, as well as the amounts of their tax refund, tax credit, income tax already paid, and more.


   Registered Retirement Savings Plan (RRSP)  

The NOA provides important information about a tax filer’s Registered Retirement Savings Plan (RRSP). It lists the maximum contributions an individual can make toward their RRSP for the following year.﻿﻿ This amount is equal to 18% of the previous year’s earned income or the maximum amount for the current tax year, whichever is less.﻿﻿ 



A tax filer can claim contributions to an RRSP as a deduction from overall taxable income. Taxpayers are not required to take contributions as deductions in the tax year they make them. They can postpone RRSP deductions until the following year if they expect to have a significant increase in income that will push them to a higher tax bracket. These are known as unused contributions. The move would allow them to claim a larger reduction on a bigger tax bill.﻿﻿ 



However, individuals would owe a tax if unused RRSP contributions from prior years and current contributions exceed the RRSP deduction limit shown on their latest NOA by more than $2,000. The tax is 1% per month on the excess amount.﻿﻿



Taxpayers can also make deductions from certain transfers they make into their RRSPs without affecting their deduction limits. The CRA lists these as certain lump-sum amounts from a non-registered pension plan relating to services rendered during a time when a tax filer was a nonresident of Canada, eligible pension income from an estate or a testamentary trust, and amounts received from foreign retirement arrangements, including United States Individual Retirement Accounts.﻿﻿


   Examples of RRSP Contributions  

If someone who earned $50,000 in income made contributions of $1,000 to their RRSP for a given year, that person would be taxed on $49,000 of income. If a person doesn’t meet their maximum contribution limit for a given tax year, that individual can roll over the amount left over into the following year. Say a person’s contribution limit for a given tax year was $15,000, but they had made no contributions toward an RRSP that year. The following year’s limit would be that person’s maximum contribution limit for the year plus $15,000.
What Is a Notice of Default?  

The term notice of default refers to a public notice filed with a court that states that the borrower of a mortgage is in default on a loan. The lender may file a notice of default when a mortgagor falls behind on their mortgage payments. Information on notices of default normally includes the borrower and lender's name and address, the legal address of the property, the nature of the default, as well as other pertinent details. A notice of default is often considered the first step toward foreclosure.





Key Takeaway

A notice of default is a public notice filed with a court that states that a mortgagor is in default.It is typically the final action lenders take before activating the lien and seizing the collateral for foreclosure.The notice must include details such as the borrower and lender's name and address, the property address, and the nature of the default.


   How Notices of Default Work  

A notice of default is a serious action taken by a lender. It notifies a borrower that their delinquent mortgage payments have breached the limit as outlined in their mortgage loan contract. Lenders outline the number of delinquent payments allowed in a mortgage contract before default action is taken. Most contracts generally allow up to 180 days of missed payments and delinquencies before any action is taken to file a notice of default.



A notice of default is typically the final action lenders take before activating the lien and seizing the collateral for foreclosure. A notice of default is usually filed with the state court in which the lien is recorded followed by a hearing to activate the perfected lien recorded with the mortgage closing. Some cases may allow time for the borrower to negotiate by potentially paying delinquent debt or suggesting a settlement.



If the case proceeds to the approval of the perfected property lien, the lender then notifies the borrower that the lien is activated. With an activated lien and a court order for property seizure, the lender can take legal action asking the borrower to vacate the property.



All notices of default contain relevant information pertaining to the borrower, lender, and the property. These details include but aren't limited to:



The name and address of the borrower
The name and address of the lender
The legal address of the property
Full details on the nature of the default
What action is required to cure the default
The deadline and the intentions of the lender if the deadline is passed without a cure


   Special Considerations  

If a borrower has several delinquent payments, they are at risk of default on a mortgage loan. This also poses the risk of lost collateral. When this happens, the lender may file a notice of default. While this notice may lead to foreclosure, that isn't always the case, The lender may simply be taking this step as protocol, and be willing to work with the borrower to bring the account up to date. Filing the notice may also include a negotiation grace period before further action is taken.






While some lenders use notices of default as the final step before foreclosure, others use it as a way to work with borrowers to bring the mortgage up to date.



A notice of default and subsequent foreclosure actions are documented and reported to credit bureaus. Thus, all foreclosure proceedings and actions can have serious repercussions on a borrower’s credit score. This will also reduce the borrower’s ability to obtain a mortgage or any type of debt in the future.



Some lenders may choose to serve the delinquent borrower with a notice of intention rather than a notice of default levy or they may provide warnings to the borrower which gives them time to negotiate.
What Is a Notice Of Deficiency?  

A notice of deficiency is a legal determination by the IRS of a taxpayer’s tax deficiency. It is an official written claim that a taxpayer owes additional income tax (and often interest on that amount, plus additional penalties). It is issued when the IRS proposes a change to a tax return because they found that the information reported on a return does not match their records. A notice of deficiency is also sometimes referred to as a statutory notice, a statutory notice of deficiency, or an IRS 90-day letter. The official name for a notice of deficiency is IRS Notice CP2319A: Notice of Deficiency and Increase in Tax.



Tax laws require that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) issues a notice of deficiency before assessing additional income tax, estate tax, gift tax, and certain excise taxes (unless the taxpayer agrees to the additional assessment). Although the language in the notice of deficiency says that the IRS is proposing a change, the notice of deficiency is a legal determination of tax deficiency that is presumptively correct.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

A notice of deficiency is a legal determination by the IRS of a taxpayer’s tax deficiency; the official name for the form is IRS Notice CP2319A: Notice of Deficiency and Increase in Tax.A notice of deficiency is issued when the IRS proposes a change to a tax return because they found that the information reported on a return does not match their records.A notice of deficiency is usually triggered by tax information received from a third party filer–such as an employer or a financial institution–that does not match the information reported by the taxpayer.


   How a Notice Of Deficiency Works  

A notice of deficiency is usually triggered by tax information received from a third party filer–such as an employer or a financial institution–that does not match the information reported by the taxpayer.﻿﻿ A notice of deficiency is triggered by a taxpayer’s failure to timely respond to, or to successfully appeal, a pre-assessment letter known as a 30-day letter. ﻿﻿



When an examination results in a proposed tax deficiency, the first step the IRS takes towards amending this deficiency is to issue a 30-day letter to the taxpayer. It is known as a 30-day letter because the taxpayer has 30 days to respond before the IRS processes the changes made to the return.



A notice of deficiency explains any adjustments and how the amount of any deficiency was calculated. It explains the taxpayer’s options to either agree to the additional tax liability by signing a Waiver Form 4089﻿﻿ or challenge it in U.S. Tax Court.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿



A notice of deficiency is sometimes referred to as a 90-day letter because it gives the taxpayer 90 days to dispute the tax assessment in the Tax Court. The 90-day period within which a petition may be filed is prescribed by statute and cannot be extended. The 90-day period is counted from the date the notice of deficiency is mailed to the taxpayer’s last known address. The IRS is required by law to include the last day a petition may be filed directly on the notice of deficiency. Until 90 days expire–or a Tax Court decision is final–whichever is later, the IRS is barred from any assessment or collection activity.﻿﻿



It is important to note that a notice of deficiency is not a tax bill. However, if the taxpayer has not signed a Waiver Form 4089 agreeing to the changes﻿﻿ or filed a petition with the Tax Court within the 90-day period, the IRS will assess the tax, penalties, and interest shown on the notice of deficiency and send a bill. ﻿﻿ This is one of the events that precedes and triggers IRS collection efforts.
What Is a Notice of Termination?  

A notice of termination is what an employer uses to notify an employee as to the end of their employment contract. More broadly, it may also refer to the formal notification of the end of a contract between two or more parties. While a notice of termination usually is provided to an employee for reasons unrelated to their job performance—for example, because business conditions necessitate layoffs or downsizing—it may also be given to an employee for poor job performance or misconduct.



In certain cases, however, employers are required to give workers advance notice of mass layoffs or a plant closure, especially if they are a member of a union.



Another term for notice of termination document is "pink slip" or "termination letter."






If your job is terminated but you are under a union contract, your employer is legally bound to give you a notice of termination; otherwise, there is no law that individual companies must provide their "at-will" workers with a notice of termination.


   How a Notice of Termination Works  

In the United States, employers are not required to give notice to a worker prior to their termination as per the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA). All American workers are considered "at-will," which means that an employer can terminate employees for any reason, without establishing just cause, as long as the reason is not illegal (such as gender, religious or racial discrimination). The reasoning is that an employee also has the right to leave a job for any reason at any time.





Key Takeaways

Employers who hire “at-will” workers are not legally bound to give advance notice to an employee who is being fired. Giving employees a termination notice helps a company maintain a positive image, especially if they provide the reasons for the termination. There is a law on the books, the WARN Act, which requires employers (who have 100 workers or more) who are planning mass layoffs or have plans to close a factory or plant, to provide up to 60 days notice to its employees. 



In the U.S., the only notifications legally required to be included in a notice of termination are related to the Consolidated Omnibus Benefits Reconciliation Act (COBRA) and the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act (WARN). A reason for termination need not be stated, though it tends to be a best practice if an employee has been fired for cause.


   How a Notice of Termination Works in Other Countries  

In some countries, an individual who has been employed for a certain period of time must be provided with a notice of termination. For example, in Canada workers who have been employed with a company continuously for three or more months must be given written notice of termination by their employer, along with termination pay or a combination of both.



How long a notice period depends on the length of service. A notice of termination is not due, however, to an employee who is guilty of disobedience, willful misconduct or neglect of duty.


   Special Considerations  

When a party to a contract wants to notify another party (or parties) of their intent to end their relationship, as well as disclose a date for contract expiration, they will send a notice of termination. Simply put, it is a formal declaration to another party that you plan to end a contract. It acts as a public record of such an action and can help resolve disputes should they arise later.



Such a notice will contain the terms that permit the termination of an agreement. A notice of termination (also called a "notice of cancellation of contract" or "contract termination letter") serves as a courtesy to other parties and can help preserve relationships.
What Is a Notice to Creditors?  

A notice to creditors can be a specific contact with a known creditor or a public notice commonly posted in a local newspaper by a trust or estate's executor as part of the probate of the estate of a decedent.



The notice serves as the official notification to creditors and debtors of the probate of a deceased individual’s estate and the announcement may run for weeks depending on state laws. Known creditors must be given specific notice. The published notice captures all other unknown creditors.



The executor or executrix—in some states known as the personal representative—is charged with paying outstanding debts and collecting monies owed to the estate as part of her duties after being appointed by the court.





Key Takeaways

A notice to creditors is a public statement noting the death of an individual to alert potential creditors to the situation.Still published in local newspapers, the notice is filed by the estate's executor and meant to facilitate the probate proceedings.Known creditors must be given a specific notice, while the published notice serves to capture all other unknown creditors.Creditors will have a limited amount of time to respond to the notice, which may also be filed by individuals declaring bankruptcy.


   How a Notice to Creditors Works  

In the United States, when a person dies, there may be an informal probate process of the deceased's estate. The phrase “avoiding probate” refers to the strategy of arranging for the non-probate transfer of assets via trusts, joint accounts, or by other means, such as life insurance.



Some states have an asset threshold allowing small estates to avoid probate, but if an interested party objects, assets exist that require probate, or other issues are evident, a probate case will be opened.



Depending on state laws, once probate is opened, creditors have a limited amount of time from the date they were notified of the testator’s death to present any claims against the estate for money owed to them. Claims that are rejected by the executor can be filed in the court where a probate judge will have the final say on whether or not the claim must be paid.



Even though newspapers have given way to digital and online media, they are still the most commonly used medium with which to provide notice to outstanding creditors.


   Notice in Bankruptcy Proceedings  

A notice to creditors is also filed for bankruptcy proceedings. In the event of personal bankruptcy, the notice is filed before the first meeting of creditors, known as a 341 meeting. Individuals filing Chapter 7 or Chapter 13 bankruptcy must attend this meeting with the bankruptcy trustee and creditors may also attend and ask questions.
What Is Notional Principal Amount?  

The notional principal amount, in an interest rate swap, is the predetermined dollar amounts, or principal, on which the exchanged interest payments are based.





Key Takeaways

Notional principal amounts are used in interest rate swaps.Notional principal amounts are the theoretical value that each party pays interest to the other at specified intervals.In bonds, the notional principal amount is equal to the face value of a bond.


   Understanding Notional Principal Amounts  

The notional principal never changes hands in the transaction, which is why it is considered notional, or theoretical. Neither party pays nor receives the notional principal amount at any time; only interest rate payments change hands.



According to Treasury Regulations, a notional principal amount is "a financial instrument that provides for the payment of amounts by one party to another at specified intervals calculated by reference to a specified index upon a notional principal amount, in exchange for specified consideration or a promise to pay similar amounts."



Notional principal refers to the assumed amount of principal involved in a financial transaction, even though it is functionally separated from the transaction. This can include the underlying principal in a debt security in interest rate swaps, as the rates are actual components in the transaction, but the principal is functionally fictitious. A notional principal amount need not necessarily be a cash amount. It can also be equal to equity holdings or the value of a basket of stocks.



When calculating bond payments, the face value of the bond is considered to be notional in regard to determining the interest due. The payments are a percentage of the face value, even if the face value is not available in a true sense. The face value cannot be withdrawn and may not even exist in a traditional sense until the bond approaches maturity, but it does have an understood value that is required for the performing of relevant calculations.


   Interest Rate Swaps  

An interest rate swap involves two organizations lending funds to each other but with different terms. The repayment schedule may be for different durations or for different interest rates. In cases where the transactions involve the same amount of principal (the amount being lent and received by each party), the principal is notional in nature and does not actually change hands, or may not even functionally exist.



Often, interest rate swaps are used to help shift the risk or return of particular investments up or down, where one organization will have an asset with a variable rate while the other holds an asset with a fixed rate. Accepted as a zero-sum agreement, one party may benefit from the arrangement while the other experiences a loss.


   Example of Notional Principal Amount  

Two companies might enter into an interest rate swap contract as follows: For three years, Company A pays Company B 5% interest per year on a notional principal amount of $10 million. For the same three years, Company B pays Company A the one-year LIBOR rate on the same notional principal amount of $10 million.



This would be considered a plain vanilla interest rate swap because one party pays interest at a fixed rate on the notional principal amount and the other party pays interest at a floating rate on the same notional principal amount.
What Is Notional Value?  

Notional value is a term often used by derivatives traders to refer to the total value of the underlying asset in a contract. It can be the total value of a position, how much value a position controls, or an agreed-upon amount in a contract. Put simply, it is the face value that is used to determine payments on a financial asset. This term is used when describing derivative contracts in the options, futures, forwards, and currency markets.





Key Takeaways


Notional value is a term often used by derivatives traders to refer to the total value of the underlying asset in a contract.
Notional value is the same as face value, used to determine payments on a financial asset.
The notional value of derivatives contracts is much higher than the market value because leverage is used.
Notional value is integral in assessing portfolio risk and can be very useful when determining hedge ratios to offset that risk.
Notional value can be applied to interest rate swaps, total return swaps, equity options, and foreign currency derivatives.













Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding Notional Value  

Notional value is the face or total value of a position in a financial instrument, such as a derivatives trade. It helps distinguish the total value of a trade from the market value or cost of taking the trade.
There is a clear distinction between the two: notional value accounts for the total value of the position, while the market value is the price at which that position can be bought or sold in the marketplace.
Calculating Notional Value
Notional value can be calculated as follows:
















NV


=


CS


×


UP
















where:
















NV


=


Notional Value
















CS


=


Contract Size
















UP


=


Underlying Price







\begin{aligned}&\text{NV}=\text{CS}\times\text{UP}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{NV}=\text{Notional Value}\\&\text{CS}=\text{Contract Size}\\&\text{UP}=\text{Underlying Price}\end{aligned}


​NV=CS×UPwhere:NV=Notional ValueCS=Contract SizeUP=Underlying Price​

The notional value of derivative contracts is much higher than the market value due to leverage (using borrowed money). Leverage allows someone to use a small amount of money to theoretically control a much larger amount. The amount of leverage used can be calculated by dividing notional value by market value.















L


=


NV


÷


MV
















where:
















L


=


Leverage
















NV


=


Notional Value
















MV


=


Market Value







\begin{aligned}&\text{L}=\text{NV}\div\text{MV}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{L}=\text{Leverage}\\&\text{NV}=\text{Notional Value}\\&\text{MV}=\text{Market Value}\end{aligned}


​L=NV÷MVwhere:L=LeverageNV=Notional ValueMV=Market Value​Notional value is integral in assessing portfolio risk, which can be very useful when determining hedge ratios to offset that risk. For example, say a fund has a $1 million long exposure to U.S. equity markets, and the fund manager wants to offset that risk using the E-mini S&P 500 futures contracts. They would have to sell an approximately equivalent amount of S&P 500 futures contracts to hedge their market exposure risk. If the notional value of each E-mini S&P 500 futures contract is $140,000, the market value is $10,000.















HR


=


CER


÷


NVRUA
















HR


=


$


1


,


000


,


000


÷


$


140


,


000


=


7.14
















where:
















HR


=


Hedge Ratio
















CER


=


Cash Exposure Risk
















NVRUA


=


Notional Value of Related Underlying Asset







\begin{aligned}&\text{HR}=\text{CER}\div\text{NVRUA}\\&\text{HR}=\$1,000,000\div\$140,000=7.14\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{HR}=\text{Hedge Ratio}\\&\text{CER}=\text{Cash Exposure Risk}\\&\text{NVRUA}=\text{Notional Value of Related Underlying Asset}\end{aligned}


​HR=CER÷NVRUAHR=$1,000,000÷$140,000=7.14where:HR=Hedge RatioCER=Cash Exposure RiskNVRUA=Notional Value of Related Underlying Asset​
So, the fund manager would sell approximately seven E-mini S&P 500 contracts to effectively hedge their long cash position against market risk. The market value would be $70,000.


   Uses in Swaps, Options, and Foreign Currencies  

While notional value can be used in futures and stocks (total value of the stock position) in the ways discussed above, notional value also applies to interest rate swaps, total return swaps, equity options, and foreign currency derivatives.


  Swaps  

In interest rate swaps, the notional value is the specified value upon which interest rate payments will be exchanged. The notional value in interest rate swaps is used to come up with the amount of interest due. Typically, the notional value on these types of contracts is fixed during the contract's life.



Total return swaps involve a party that pays a floating or fixed rate multiplied by a notional value amount plus the decrease in notional value. This is swapped for payments by another party that pays the appreciation of notional value.


  Equity Options  

Notional value in an option refers to the value that the option controls. For example, ABC trades for $20 with a particular ABC call option costing $1.50. One equity option controls 100 underlying shares. A trader purchases the option for $1.50 × 100 = $150.



The notional value of the option is $20 × 100 = $2,000. Buying the stock option contract would potentially give the trader control over 100 shares of stock for $150 compared with if they purchased the stocks outright for $2,000.






The notional value of an equity options contract is the value of the shares controlled rather than the cost of the transaction.


  Foreign Currency Exchange and Foreign Currency Derivatives  

Foreign exchange (FX) derivatives, like forwards and options, have two potential notional values. However, for typical over-the-counter (OTC) trades in FX derivatives, the notional value will be in line with the common quoting convention of the currency pair (primary currency/secondary currency).



For example, if the trade is in GBP/USD (GBP as the primary currency), then the amount of, say, £10,000,000 will commonly be the notional amount of the trade. But if the trade is in USD/JPY, the notional value would be $10,000,000, using USD as the primary currency. If the trade were in AUD/NZD, the notional amount would be in AUD, and so on.



Depending on the circumstances, the initiating counterparty may seek to use the secondary currency as the notional amount instead. For example, an American fund manager wants to buy USD 10 million worth of British stock, priced in GBP, when GBP/USD is currently trading at 1.3000. In this case, the notional amount would be $10 million, or £7.692 million. It’s mostly a matter of convenience for the two counterparties to decide on when initiating a trade.


   Example of Notional Value  

A contract has a unique, standardized size that can be based on factors such as weight, volume, or multiplier. For example, a single COMEX Gold futures contract unit (GC) is 100 troy ounces, and an E-mini S&P 500 Index futures contract has a $50 multiplier. The notional value of the former is 100 times the market price of gold, while the notional value of the latter is 50 times the market price of the S&P 500 Index.If someone buys an E-mini S&P 500 contract at 2,800, then that single futures contract is worth $140,000 ($50 × 2,800). Therefore, $140,000 is the notional value of that underlying futures contract. However, the person buying this contract isn’t required to put up $140,000 when taking the trade.



Rather, they only need to put up an amount called the initial margin (market value), which is usually a fraction of the notional amount. The leverage used would be the notional amount divided by the price of buying the contract. If the price (initial margin) for one contract was $10,000, then the trader was able to use (140,000 ÷ 10,000) 14 times leverage.




Why Is Notional Value Important?
The notional value is the amount of an underlying asset that investment managers might seek to hedge against. In contrast, the market value will fluctuate over time based on market movements—which the investor might presumably seek to hedge—while the notional amount remains the same.




What Is the Difference Between Notional and Market Value?
Notional value refers to the value of the underlying asset—say, $5,000 worth of stock bought on the open market. It’s also known as the face value of a holding. Market value is what the current position is worth in the open market.




Is Notional Value the Same as Face Value?
Yes. It is the notional value or face value that investors may seek to hedge against, as it represents the full value of the underlying asset.




What Value Should an Investor Target to Hedge Against an Asset Exposure?
Investors should focus on the notional, or face, value to hedge against exposure to an asset. For instance, say a portfolio manager has $10 million invested in 10-year U.S. government bonds. The manager likely would want to use options, and the leverage they provide, to cover the entire notional value of the investment—in this case, $10 million. There will be a cost associated with the hedge (the cost of the option contracts), but it is typically a small fraction of the notional value of the asset.




What Is the Effective Notional Amount of an Investment?
The effective notional amount is the face value minus the cost of any hedges that have been purchased against it. For example, an investor seeks to hedge against a long $10,000 stock position in XYZ by buying an out-of-the-money put, which costs $2.50 per 100 shares, or $250 in premium, to cover the full $10,000 investment. Incorporating the cost of the hedge, the effective notional amount then becomes $10,000 minus $250, or an effective notional amount of $9,750.


   The Bottom Line  

Notional value, or face value, is the value of an underlying asset in a derivatives trade. So, if an investor seeks to hedge against a long position in ABC stock via options, they may wish to buy a put to protect against downside movements. The amount of the put will be based on the notional value of the stock the investor seeks to hedge.



Notional value stays the same as long as it’s fully hedged, whereas market value is subject to market movements, with no downside protection as in the case above. Notional value serves as the baseline for measuring an investment and whatever hedges may be deployed to protect the underlying investment.
What Is Novation?  

Novation is the replacement of one of the parties in an agreement between two parties, with the consent of all three parties involved. To novate is to replace an old obligation with a new one.



For example, a supplier who wants to relinquish a business customer might find another source for the customer. If all three agree, the contract can be torn up and replaced with a new contract that differs only in the name of the supplier. The old supplier relinquishes all rights and obligations of the contract to the new supplier.





Key Takeaways

To novate is to replace an old obligation with a new one.In contract law, a novation replaces one of the parties in a two-party agreement with a third party, with the agreement of all three parties.In a novate, the original contract is void. The party that drops out has given up its benefits and obligations.In the financial markets, using a clearinghouse to vet a transaction between two parties is known as a novation.Novation is different than an assignment, where the original party to the agreement retains ultimate responsibility. Therefore, the original contract remains in place.


   How Novation Works  

In legal language, novation is a transfer of both the "benefits and the burdens" of a contract to another party. Contract benefits may be anything. For example, the benefit could be payments for services. The burdens are the obligations taken on to earn the payment—in this example, the services. One party to the contract is willing to forgo the benefits and relinquish the duties.



Canceling a contract can be messy, expensive, and bad for an entity's reputation. Arranging for another party to fulfill the contract on the same terms, with the agreement of all parties, is better business.



Novations are often seen in the construction industry, where subcontractors may be juggling several jobs at once. Contractors may transfer certain jobs to other contractors with the client's consent.



Novations are most frequently used when a business is sold, or a corporation is taken over. The new owner may want to retain the business's contractual obligations, while the other parties want to continue their agreements without interruption. Novations smooth the transition.


   Types of Novations  

There are three types of novations:



Standard: This novation occurs when two parties agree that new terms must be added to their contract, resulting in a new one.Expromissio: Three parties must be involved in this novation; a transferor, a counterparty, and a transferee. All three must agree to the new terms and make a new contract.Delegation: One of the parties in a contract passes their responsibilities to a new party, legally binding that party to the terms of the contract.


   Novation vs. Assignment  

A novation is an alternative to the procedure known as an assignment.



In an assignment, one person or business transfers rights or property to another person or business. But the assignment passes along only the benefits, while any obligations remain with the original contract party. Novations pass along both benefits and potential liabilities to the new party.



For example, a sub-lease is an assignment. The original rental contract remains in place. The landlord can hold the primary leaseholder responsible for damage or non-payment by the sub-letter.



Novation gives rights and the obligations to the new party, and the old one walks away. The original contract is nullified.



In property law, novation occurs when a tenant signs a lease over to another party, which assumes both the responsibility for the rent and the liability for any subsequent damages to the property, as indicated in the original lease.



Generally, an assignment and a novation require the approval of all three parties involved.






A sub-lease agreement is usually an assignment, not a novation. The primary leaseholder remains responsible for non-payment or damage.


   Novation Uses  

Because a novation replaces a contract, it can be used in any business, industry, or market where contracts are used.


  Financial Markets  

In financial markets, novations are generally used in credit default swaps, options, or futures when contracts are transferred to a derivatives market clearinghouse. A bilateral transaction is completed through the clearinghouse, which functions as an intermediary.



The sellers transfer the rights to and obligations of their securities to the clearinghouse. The clearinghouse, in turn, sells the securities to the buyers. Both the transferor (the seller) and transferee (the buyer) must agree to the terms of the novation, and the remaining party (the clearinghouse) must consent by a specific deadline. If the remaining party doesn't consent, the transferor and transferee must book a new trade and go through the process again.


  Real Estate  

Contracts are a part of real estate transactions, so novation is a valuable tool in the industry. If buyers and sellers enter into a contract, novation allows them to change it when issues arise during due diligence, inspection, or closing.



Commercial and residential rental contracts can be changed using novation if tenants or renters experience changes that affect their needs or ability to make payments.


  Government Contracting  

Federal, state, and local governments find it cheaper and beneficial for the economy to contract specific tasks rather than create an official workforce. Contracts are critical components for private or public companies who win a bid to do work for governments. If the contractor suddenly can't deliver on the contract or other issues prevent it from completing its task, the contractor can ask the government to recognize another party to complete the project.






A novation is not a unilateral contract mechanism. All concerned parties may negotiate the terms until a consensus is reached.


  Banking  

Banks use novation to transfer loans or other debts to different lenders. This typically involves canceling the contract and creating a new one with the exact terms and conditions of the old one.


   Example of Novation  

Novation can occur between any two parties. Consider the following example—Maria signed a contract with Chris to buy a cryptocurrency for $200. Chris has a contract with Uni for the same type of cryptocurrency for $200. These debt obligations may be simplified through a novation. By agreement of all three parties, a novation agreement is drawn, with a new contract in which Chris transfers the debt and its obligations to Maria. Maria pays Uni $200 in crypto. Chris receives (and pays) nothing.



Novations also allow for revisions of payment terms as long as the parties involved agree. For example, say Uni decided not to accept crypto but wanted cash instead. If Maria agrees, a novation occurs, and new payment terms are entered on a contract.




What Is a Novation?
In novation, one party in a two-party agreement gives up all rights and obligations outlined in a contract to a third party. As a result, the original contract is canceled.




What Is The Meaning of Novation Agreement?
In novation, the rights and obligations of one party to a two-party contract are transferred to a third party, with the agreement of all three parties.




Is Novation a New Contract?
Yes, because the old contract is invalidated or "extinguished" when the new contract is signed.


   The Bottom Line  

In a novation, when all parties agree, one party in a two-party agreement gives up all rights and obligations outlined in a contract to a third party. As a result, the original contract is canceled.



Novation differs from an assignment, where one party gives up all rights outlined in the contract but remains responsible for fulfilling its terms. The original contract remains in place.
What Is a Null Hypothesis?  

A null hypothesis is a type of statistical hypothesis that proposes that no statistical significance exists in a set of given observations. Hypothesis testing is used to assess the credibility of a hypothesis by using sample data. Sometimes referred to simply as the "null," it is represented as H0.



The null hypothesis, also known as the conjecture, is used in quantitative analysis to test theories about markets, investing strategies, or economies to decide if an idea is true or false.





Key Takeaways

A null hypothesis is a type of conjecture in statistics that proposes that there is no difference between certain characteristics of a population or data-generating process.The alternative hypothesis proposes that there is a difference.Hypothesis testing provides a method to reject a null hypothesis within a certain confidence level.If you can reject the null hypothesis, it provides support for the alternative hypothesis.Null hypothesis testing is the basis of the principle of falsification in science.












Investopedia / Alex Dos Diaz


   How a Null Hypothesis Works  

A null hypothesis is a type of conjecture in statistics that proposes that there is no difference between certain characteristics of a population or data-generating process. For example, a gambler may be interested in whether a game of chance is fair. If it is fair, then the expected earnings per play come to zero for both players. If the game is not fair, then the expected earnings are positive for one player and negative for the other. To test whether the game is fair, the gambler collects earnings data from many repetitions of the game, calculates the average earnings from these data, then tests the null hypothesis that the expected earnings are not different from zero.



If the average earnings from the sample data are sufficiently far from zero, then the gambler will reject the null hypothesis and conclude the alternative hypothesis—namely, that the expected earnings per play are different from zero. If the average earnings from the sample data are near zero, then the gambler will not reject the null hypothesis, concluding instead that the difference between the average from the data and zero is explainable by chance alone.



The null hypothesis assumes that any kind of difference between the chosen characteristics that you see in a set of data is due to chance. For example, if the expected earnings for the gambling game are truly equal to zero, then any difference between the average earnings in the data and zero is due to chance.



Analysts look to reject the null hypothesis because doing so is a strong conclusion. This requires strong evidence in the form of an observed difference that is too large to be explained solely by chance. Failing to reject the null hypothesis—that the results are explainable by chance alone—is a weak conclusion because it allows that factors other than chance may be at work but may not be strong enough for the statistical test to detect them.






A null hypothesis can only be rejected, not proven.


   The Alternative Hypothesis  

An important point to note is that we are testing the null hypothesis because there is an element of doubt about its validity. Whatever information that is against the stated null hypothesis is captured in the alternative (alternate) hypothesis (H1).



For the above examples, the alternative hypothesis would be:



Students score an average that is not equal to seven.The mean annual return of the mutual fund is not equal to 8% per year.



In other words, the alternative hypothesis is a direct contradiction of the null hypothesis.


   Examples of a Null Hypothesis  

Here is a simple example: A school principal claims that students in her school score an average of seven out of 10 in exams. The null hypothesis is that the population mean is 7.0. To test this null hypothesis, we record marks of, say, 30 students (sample) from the entire student population of the school (say 300) and calculate the mean of that sample.



We can then compare the (calculated) sample mean to the (hypothesized) population mean of 7.0 and attempt to reject the null hypothesis. (The null hypothesis here—that the population mean is 7.0—cannot be proved using the sample data. It can only be rejected.)



Take another example: The annual return of a particular mutual fund is claimed to be 8%. Assume that a mutual fund has been in existence for 20 years. The null hypothesis is that the mean return is 8% for the mutual fund. We take a random sample of annual returns of the mutual fund for, say, five years (sample) and calculate the sample mean. We then compare the (calculated) sample mean to the (claimed) population mean (8%) to test the null hypothesis.



For the above examples, null hypotheses are:



Example A: Students in the school score an average of seven out of 10 in exams.Example B: Mean annual return of the mutual fund is 8% per year.



For the purposes of determining whether to reject the null hypothesis, the null hypothesis (abbreviated H0) is assumed, for the sake of argument, to be true. Then the likely range of possible values of the calculated statistic (e.g., the average score on 30 students’ tests) is determined under this presumption (e.g., the range of plausible averages might range from 6.2 to 7.8 if the population mean is 7.0). Then, if the sample average is outside of this range, the null hypothesis is rejected. Otherwise, the difference is said to be “explainable by chance alone,” being within the range that is determined by chance alone.


   How Null Hypothesis Testing Is Used in Investments  

As an example related to financial markets, assume Alice sees that her investment strategy produces higher average returns than simply buying and holding a stock. The null hypothesis states that there is no difference between the two average returns, and Alice is inclined to believe this until she can conclude contradictory results.



Refuting the null hypothesis would require showing statistical significance, which can be found by a variety of tests. The alternative hypothesis would state that the investment strategy has a higher average return than a traditional buy-and-hold strategy.



One tool that can determine the statistical significance of the results is the p-value. A p-value represents the probability that a difference as large or larger than the observed difference between the two average returns could occur solely by chance.



A p-value that is less than or equal to 0.05 often indicates whether there is evidence against the null hypothesis. If Alice conducts one of these tests, such as a test using the normal model, resulting in a significant difference between her returns and the buy-and-hold returns (the p-value is less than or equal to 0.05), she can then reject the null hypothesis and conclude the alternative hypothesis.




How Is the Null Hypothesis Identified?
The analyst or researcher establishes a null hypothesis based on the research question or problem that they are trying to answer. Depending on the question, the null may be identified differently. For example, if the question is simply whether an effect exists (e.g., does X influence Y?) the null hypothesis could be H0: X = 0. If the question is instead, is X the same as Y, the H0 would be X = Y. If it is that the effect of X on Y is positive, H0 would be X > 0. If the resulting analysis shows an effect that is statistically significantly different from zero, the null can be rejected.




How Is Null Hypothesis Used in Finance?
In finance, a null hypothesis is used in quantitative analysis. A null hypothesis tests the premise of an investing strategy, the markets, or an economy to determine if it is true or false. For instance, an analyst may want to see if two stocks, ABC and XYZ, are closely correlated. The null hypothesis would be ABC ≠ XYZ.




How Are Statistical Hypotheses Tested?
Statistical hypotheses are tested by a four-step process. The first step is for the analyst to state the two hypotheses so that only one can be right. The next step is to formulate an analysis plan, which outlines how the data will be evaluated. The third step is to carry out the plan and physically analyze the sample data. The fourth and final step is to analyze the results and either reject the null hypothesis or claim that the observed differences are explainable by chance alone.




What Is an Alternative Hypothesis?
An alternative hypothesis is a direct contradiction of a null hypothesis. This means that if one of the two hypotheses is true, the other is false.
What Is Numeraire?  

Numeraire is an economic term of French origin, which acts as a benchmark in comparing the value of similar products or financial instruments. The word numeraire translates as "money," "coinage," or "face value."





Key Takeaways

Numeraire is an economic term of French origin, which acts as a benchmark in comparing the value of similar products or financial instruments.A numeraire is usually applied to a single good, which becomes the base value for the entire index or market.The U.S. dollar remains the numeraire for most commodity prices.


   Understanding Numeraire  

Numeraire is an economic term that represents a unit in which prices are measured. A numeraire is usually applied to a single good, which becomes the base value for the entire index or market. Having a numeraire, or base value, allows for the comparison of the value of goods against one another. In essence, the numeraire acts as a set standard of value across an exchange.



An example of a numeraire arises when we look at how currencies were valued under the Bretton Woods system during the mid-20th century. The U.S. dollar (USD) was priced at one-thirty-fifth (1/35th) the price of an ounce of gold. All other currencies were then priced as either a multiple or a fraction of the dollar. In this situation, the USD acted as the de facto benchmark, or numeraire, because it was fixed to the price of gold.



Today, the U.S. dollar remains the numeraire for most commodity prices. Denominating commodity prices in U.S. dollars standardizes the price as the USD is the most-traded and liquid currency in the world. For example, companies that engage in oil transactions can easily convert payments or receipts in a timely manner since the price of oil is denominated in USD. 



Also, by setting oil prices in USD, it allows a country to compare the value of oil prices in its own currency. For example, if a country that is a net importer of oil has a currency that is weakening against the U.S. dollar, it will be paying more for its oil (in local currency terms) than it did in the past.
What Is Numismatics?  

Numismatics is the study of the physical embodiment of various payment media (i.e. currencies). The study of numismatics as it applies to coins is often in the research of the production and use of the coins to determine their rarity.





Key Takeaways

Numismatics is the study of coins and other currency units and is usually associated with the appraisal and collection of rare coins.Numismatists study the physical properties, production technology, and historical context of specimens of currency.Rare and collectible coins may trade at well above their nominal face value or commodity melt value and are often withdrawn from circulation and viewed as investments rather than actual money. Numerous clubs, societies, and other organizations have been established to support the study of numismatics. The qualification for becoming a numismatist in the U.S. include successfully completing specialized courses and passing a 200-question exam.


   Understanding Numismatics  

Numismatics differs from historical and economic studies of money. Numismatists study the physical attributes of the payment media rather than the use and function in an economy. The term numismatics is often used interchangeably with the coin collection, though it connotes more intensive study than just simply collecting coins. It could be said that all numismatists are coin collectors, but not all coin collectors are numismatists. It is widely believed that numismatics began during the early European Renaissance, as part of an effort to re-discover all things classical.



The first English usage of the word “numismatics” was in 1829, stemming from the word adjective numismatic, which translates to "of coins”, and stemmed from the French word numismatiques, which itself derived from the Latin word numismatis.



Numismatists study the physical technology and historical context of coinage and money. Coins or other tokens that are rare or unique or that have some special history that can be documented are considered most interesting for study and valuable as collectibles. Specimens that show errors from their production process of striking the coins or printing the notes are especially notable.


   Currency Value  

Because of their properties and value as collectibles, rare units of currency can trade at well above their face value or the commodity value of their physical substance. For example, some 20th century U.S. silver quarters, with a face value of 25 cents and a silver melt value of a few dollars, can trade for tens of thousands of dollars apiece. 



Rather than spend these as money at their face value, collectors withdraw them from circulation to use as collectibles or investments. This is similar to the operation of what economists call “Gresham’s Law”, which states that under legal tender laws, bad (less valuable) money drives good (more valuable) money out of circulation in the market. In the case of rare and collectible coins or other monetary tokens, Gresham’s Law operates to an even greater extreme; the coins are not only withdrawn for circulation but actually cease to be money in an economic sense. 


   Numismatic Organizations  

There are numerous societies dedicated to the study, research, and advancement of numismatic sciences. For example, The American Numismatic Society, founded in New York City in 1858, was created to foster public appreciation of coins, medals, and currencies, and has since cultivated more than 800,000 objects dating from 650 BCE, and boasts a numismatic library, with some 100,000 books and artifacts. Other numismatic organizations include:



Ancient Coins Collectors Guild
Archaeological Institute of America
The Canadian Numismatic Association
The Czech Numismatic Society
International Numismatic Commission/Commission Internationale de Numismatique
The Israel Numismatic Society
Oriental Numismatic Society
The Professional Numismatists Guild
The Royal Numismatic Society
The Numismatic Association of Australia
The Royal Numismatic Society of New Zealand


   History of Numismatics  

Numismatics refers to the study and analysis of how people use money, as well as the collection of various types of money, coins, and other forms of consideration. The history of numismatics dates back centuries. However, coin collecting likely began at the time currency was invented.



Before the 19th century, coin collecting was an individual hobby—one most often enjoyed by nobles, the religious elite, and rulers. During the Roman Empire, emperors like Caesar Augustus collected coins from various places to use as leverage in trade negotiations and to gift to guests.






Guillaume Budé's De Asse et Partibus, written in the 16th century, was the first book on coins and the first to mention numismatics.



During the Renaissance era, there was a coin-collecting explosion, with Europeans fascinated with the materials and collections of prior civilizations. Of great interest were the coins with engraved images of animals, mythical gods and goddesses, and rulers. Italian scholar and poet, Francesco Petrarca, or Petrarch, is regarded as the first Renaissance collector of coins and as the catalyst to the numismatic boom of the 14th century.



Over time, numismatics increasingly became popular. In the 1800s, coin-collecting organizations, such as the New York-based American Numismatics Society, formed across the globe.



With the advent of the Internet, coin collecting has gained traction, attracting a broader audience of enthusiasts. Potential and skilled numismatics have access to endless information, tools, and numismatic communities.


   Fields of Study  

Because there are many types of currency, coins, and notes, the field of numismatics has been segmented into various subfields. Each subfield focuses on a specific type of numismatic collectible. Some of the most common are notaphily, exonumia, and scripophily.



Notaphily is the study and collection of paper money. Notaphily is a combination of the Latin word "nota", meaning "paper money", and the Greek word phily, meaning "love". Notaphilists collect paper money, including banknotes.



Exonumia is the study and collection of coins, including tokens, medals, and other like objects. Exonumia is a combination of the Greek word exo, meaning "out of", and "nummus", meaning "coin." These items are used in place of currency or used to commemorate events and accomplishments. Exonumia is largely focused on commemorative military medals, awarded for contributions in war and military expeditions.



Scripophily is the study of securities, such as stocks and bond certificates. Scripophily combines the Greek word for love and the English word, "scrip", for ownership. Scripophilists generally collect these instruments for their beauty, rarity, and historical significance. Because the issuance of stock certificates is largely an antiquated practice, this hobby is much harder to engage in than the others subfields.


   How to Become a Numismatist  

A numismatist, also known as a coin grader, is a professional who collects, analysis, and assesses the quality of collectible coins, currency, and other like objects. In the United States, prospective numismatists must join the American Numismatic Association (ANA), complete prescribed courses, and pass an exam.



The numismatist program consists of six courses, each focusing on different topics. Upon completion of the courses, the candidate must pass a 200 question exam. Once the requirements are fulfilled, the candidate receives a diploma confirming their proficiency in the field of numismatics.



Additional training may be needed to solidify the knowledge and training. The ANA and other professional organizations provide additional tools and resources.


   Numismatic Fun Facts  

Florence, Italy, was the first world city to mint its own gold coins, in the year 1252.Although collecting old coins is a global hobby practiced by the masses, in ancient times, it was deemed a royal hobby, solely enjoyed by kings and queens.The United States Secret Service, established in 1865, was originally created to fight counterfeit money, during a time when one-third of federally issued paper money was thought to be fake. It wasn't until 1902 that the Secret Service shifted its responsibility to protecting the president, following the assassination of President William McKinley.




What Is Numismatic Gold?
Numismatic gold refers to collectible gold coins that hold more value than the spot or current market price of gold. The increased value is largely due to rarity, age, and other factors.




What Does Numismatic Value Mean?
Numismatic value is the value a seller receives for the sale of a collectible coin. This value is determined by the coin's quality, rarity, and demand.




Who Has the Biggest Coin Collection?
The Smithsonian Collection is revered as the biggest coin collection in the United States and one of the largest in the world, with more than 1.6 million objects in its collection.



Correction—March 10, 2023: A previous version of this article incorrectly stated the quantity of objects in the Smithsonian's coin collection. It has 1.6 million objects, not 1.6 objects.
What Is an N.V.?  

The term N.V. refers to an acronym for the Dutch phrase Naamloze Vennootschap. An N.V. is a public limited liability company or an open corporation that sells shares to the public in order to generate income. The acronym appears after the company name, the same way American and British company names precede the words Inc. or PLC. Corporations that wish to set up an N.V. must meet certain thresholds, including minimum capital and registration requirements. The N.V. structure is commonly used in Dutch or Dutch-influenced nations, including the Netherlands, Belgium, and Aruba.





Key Takeaways

N.V. is an acronym for Naamloze Vennootschap, a public limited liability company in the Netherlands and other Dutch-influenced nations.An N.V. issues shares to shareholders who have the power to make decisions about the company. Companies that wish to adopt this corporate structure must meet certain requirements, including a minimum startup capital threshold of €45,000Establishing an N.V. allows shareholders to remain anonymous and alleviates directors of personal liability. Rules and regulations about setting up N.V. corporatios vary based on the country in which they operate. 


   How an N.V. Works  

Every country has different regulations that outline the process involved with setting up a corporation. This includes rules about registration, taxation, and corporate structures. There are certain procedures that companies must abide by in order to go public, regardless of the country in which they do business.



As noted above, an N.V. or Naamloze Vennootschap is a type of company in the Netherlands. It is also a common corporate structure in other Dutch-influenced countries, such as Aruba, Belgium, Suriname, the Dutch West Indies, Indonesia, Curacao, and St. Maarten. The procedures to set up and operate an N.V. vary by country.



This type of corporation generally operates the same way an incorporated company does in the U.S. or a public limited company does in the United Kingdom. The company issues stock to individuals and entities who are able to make decisions about the company's future, including appointing and changing those who sit on the board of directors (BoD). Shareholders may remain anonymous under the structure, as the term Naamloze Vennootschap literally translates to the term "nameless venture."



A minimum of €45,000 in startup capital is required to establish an N.V. in the Netherlands. Notary services are also needed. This professional must draft a notarial deed with the articles of association, which highlights the purpose of the corporation and the responsibilities of those involved. The company and the names of the directors are then registered at the Netherlands Chamber of Commerce in the Dutch Commercial Register.



Here are a few other requirements an N.V. must follow in the country:



Corporate tax rates and tax rules apply, including the use of corporate tax deductions. Directors pay taxes on their salaries and dividend taxes on the shares they own. Payroll taxes apply to any workers under the N.V.
Directors are not personally liable for the corporation or its debts. Shareholders are only held liable for amounts up to their shares.
The company must register as an employer with Dutch authorities before it can hire any employees.






Along with startup capital and notary costs, companies are also responsible for accounting, registration, bookkeeping, and annual administration costs.


   Special Considerations  

Businesses can operate before they are registered under the N.V. category in the Netherlands. But its directors are personally liable until registration is complete.



Shares of Dutch naamloze vennootschap entities may also be traded on stock exchanges as long as they meet certain requirements. For instance, the company must:



Be at least five years oldHave equity of at least €5 millionHave shares with a total value of more than €5 millionHave shown a profit in at least three of the previous five years 



Shareholders must meet and vote on whether to cease operations as an N.V. If they decide to do so, all debts must be paid off and all dividends must be distributed to shareholders. Once this is done, the N.V. can officially be shuttered.


  N.V. Structures in Other Countries  

Note that the information listed above applies to those in the Netherlands. As mentioned above, the requirements to operate an N.V. generally vary based on the country where they operate. For instance:



In Belgium, the main purpose of an N.V. is to raise capital. Although only one founder is required, at least two shareholders must be registered. 
Aruban law requires companies to obtain a business license and to be registered with the Trade Registry at the Aruba Chamber. Shareholders do not have to be residents of Aruba. 
Structures in Indonesia are called Perseroan Terbatas (PT). Formats include open, closed, domestic, individual, foreign, and general public PTs. Owners must obtain licenses, deeds of establishment, and registration certificates. 





1,090

The total number of public limited companies in the Netherlands as of the first quarter of 2022.


   N.V. vs. B.V.  

An N.V. is just one type of structure for companies in different countries. Another option is the B.V. or besloten vennootschap in the Netherlands. This structure is a private limited company and is generally smaller than an N.V.



The corporation tends to be liable for its debts, so no onus falls on its directors. Ownership is also divided into shares, which gives shareholders the power to make decisions about the company. Although it is common for smaller entities to have a single director, there is no limit to the number of directors a B.V. can have, which means there can be multiple directors.



To establish a B.V., it must:



Seek the services of a notary to incorporate the companyDeposit capital of at least €0.01 or cash in kindRegister with the KVK Commercial Register and the federal tax authority


   Advantages and Disadvantages of an N.V.  

Let's take a look at some of the key benefits and drawbacks of setting up an N.V. Keep in mind that this refers to corporate structures in the Netherlands—unless otherwise indicated.


  Advantages  

Some of the key benefits of registering and operating an N.V. in the Netherlands include:



Taking advantage of corporate tax rates and corporate tax deductions.Providing shareholders with anonymity, as shareholder names are not required. Shares are registered until fully paid up so no outlay of cash is required.Directors aren't personally liable for the corporation's debts. 



Here are some of the key drawbacks of registering and operating an N.V. in the Netherlands:



A higher amount of capital is required to register an N.V. compared to a B.V.High capital and share valuation thresholds for listing an N.V. on a stock exchangeCan be easily acquired since shares aren't registered.





Pros

Corporate tax rates and tax deductions apply
Anonymity for shareholders
No outlay of cash is required
No personal liability for directors



Cons

Higher amount of startup capital is required compared to B.V.
High capital and share valuation thresholds to go public
Can be easily acquired





   Real-Life Example of an N.V.  

One of the largest Naamloze Vennootschaps in the world is Exor N.V. The company's roots trace back to the end of the 19th century but it wasn't until 1927 that it was officially founded by Giovanni Agnelli as Fabbrica Italiana Automobili Torino or FIAT.



It is now a holding company with a market capitalization of about $18.2 billion as of Jan. 20, 2022. It makes investments in a variety of sectors, including reinsurance, automobiles, agriculture, as well as professional sports. Its business segments include Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, PartnerRe, Ferrari, CNH Industrial, Juventus, and The Economist, among other enterprises.



The company remains largely controlled by the Italian Agnelli family today.




What Are the Differences Between an N.V. and B.V?
There are several things that set an N.V. apart from a B.V., namely their structures, sizes, and minimum requirements. An N.V. is a public limited company while a B.V. is a private limited company. An N.V. is reserved for larger entities and they require a greater minimum startup capital requirement of at least €45,000 compared to €0.01 for a B.V.




What Does N.V. Stand For?
N.V. stands for Naamloze Vennootschap, which is a public limited company in the Netherlands and other Dutch-influenced countries. The term Naamloze Vennootschap translates to nameless venture.




What Are the Characteristics of an N.V.?
All corporations that fall under the N.V. category are legal entities that must be registered with authorities, including those responsible for taxation. This kind of company issues shares to shareholders for the purpose of raising capital. Shareholders are able to remain anonymous and have the power to make decisions about the company.
What Is NYSE Arca?  

NYSE Arca is an electronic securities exchange in the U.S. on which exchange-traded products (ETPs) and equities are listed. The exchange specializes in ETP listings, which include exchange-traded funds (ETFs), exchange-traded notes (ETNs), and exchange-traded vehicles (ETVs).



In addition to placing typical orders, NYSE Arca allows investors and traders to participate in opening and closing auctions in ETFs and place midpoint orders that sit between the bid and ask price.





Key Takeaways

NYSE Arca is an electronic stock and exchange-traded product (ETP) order matching platform.NYSE Arca was formed from the 2006 merger of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and Archipelago (Arca).NYSE Arca boasts the largest volume of ETF trading among all other exchanges in the world.NYSE Arca Options also allows for order matching and execution of listed options orders.Today, both NYSE and NYSE Arca are owned by the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE).


   Understanding NYSE Arca  

NYSE Arca is the world’s leading ETF exchange in terms of volume and listings. As of December 2021, the exchange held a commanding 16.3% of the ETF market share in the United States. It claimed to have 2,890 individual ETFs listed with $7.14 trillion in total assets under management (AUM). NYSE Arca also offers the narrowest bid-ask spreads and quotes the most time at the best prices across all U.S. ECNs.





Top NYSE Arca ETFs

The top 5 ETFs traded on the platform by annual cash flow include the Invesco Optimum Yield Diversified Commodity Strategy No K-1 (PDBC), JPMorgan Equity Premium Income (JEPI), First Trust Global Tactical Commodity Strategy Fund (FTGC), SPDR Blackstone Senior Loan (SRLN), and JPMorgan Ultr-Short Municpal Income (JMST).



Much like other electronic communications networks (ECNs), NYSE Arca implements a liquidity fee/rebate program to improve overall market depth. For example, market makers (MMs) are charged a fee to remove liquidity and provided with a rebate for adding it. Fees and rebates typically hover around $0.003 per share.















NYSE Arca Comparisons.


   NYSE Arca Membership  

NYSE Arca offers three levels of exchange membership for financial firms that want to engage in market-making practices on the ECN. Standard market-making requires that members actively maintain a two-sided market at all times in the names that they make markets in. Lead market makers (LMMs) are the primary designated market maker in a given name and are held to more stringent standards and margin requirements.



The third status, ETP Holder, are financial institutions that do not wish to make markets but do want to use the exchange for order routing of exchange-traded products for their own books or on behalf of their brokerage clients.



As of April 2022, NYSE Arca membership consists of around 150 member firms.


   NYSE Arca Options  

In addition to offering a wide breadth of exchange-traded products and other equities, the platform also matches orders and allows for crosses of listed options in conjunction with NYSE American (formerly AMEX) and the open-outcry trading floor of the Pacific Stock Exchange (PCX) in San Francisco, CA.



NYSE Arca Options runs a model similar to its equities and ETP using a liquidity-focused market maker/taker model.


   NYSE Arca and Cryptocurrency Listed Funds  

In late 2017, NYSE Arca submitted an application to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to list two ETFs that track bitcoin futures contracts traded on the Cboe Options Exchange and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME)—the ProShares Bitcoin ETF and the ProShares Short Bitcoin ETF.



While the SEC has traditionally been reluctant to approve bitcoin ETFs due to the cryptocurrency’s speculative and unregulated nature, in October 2021, trading began on the very first bitcoin ETF, the ProShares Bitcoin Strategy ETF (BITO).



The SEC may have been more receptive to this particular crypto ETF due to the fact that the fund does not invest directly in bitcoin and instead tracks CME bitcoin futures—the contracts that speculate on the future price of bitcoin. Many applications for crypto and bitcoin ETFs are still pending approval by the SEC. However, with the price of bitcoin reaching an all-time high of $66,000 after news broke of the ProShares ETF, many fund managers are vying for the SEC's approval.


   NYSE Arca History  

NYSE Arca was formed in 2006 after the NYSE acquired Archipelago, a leading electronic exchange network. Created in 1996, Archipelago was one of the first ECNs to facilitate electronic trading on major U.S. exchanges, such as the Nasdaq and American Stock Exchange (AMEX), through the Archipelago Exchange (ArcaEx). ECNs allow for automated trading, passive order matching, after-hours trading, and instantaneous order execution.



By the mid-2000s, Archipelago's fast execution speeds and liquidity pools attracted widespread usage from institutional trading firms. Critics of the merger suggested it would end floor trading that has been in place since the NYSE’s inception in 1817. However, large-cap stocks continue to get traded on the NYSE using the open outcry method.






In 2007, NYSE completed a merger with Euronext, the largest European stock exchange, which led to the creation of NYSE Euronext. This entity was later acquired by Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), the current parent of the NYSE Arca.


   NYSE Arca FAQs  
  What Is the Difference Between the NYSE and the NYSE Arca?  

The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) is a physical and electronic stock exchange, while NYSE Arca is an electronic communications network (ECN) used for matching orders.


  Which Stocks Are on NYSE Arca?  

NYSE Arca lists more than 8,000 stocks and exchange-traded products. This means that virtually every individual stock and ETF traded on a U.S. stock exchange will also be available to trade on NYSE Arca.


  Who Owns NYSE Arca?  

NYSE Arca was formed when the NYSE acquired the Archipelago ECN in 2006. While both NYSE and NYSE Arca are now owned by the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), they remain separate and distinct subsidiaries.
What Is the NYSE Composite Index?  

The NYSE Composite Index measures the performance of all common stocks listed on the New York Stock Exchange, including American Depositary Receipts issued by foreign companies, Real Estate Investment Trusts, and tracking stocks. The weights of the index constituents are calculated on the basis of their free-float market capitalization. The index itself is calculated on the basis of price return and total return, which includes dividends.



The breadth of the NYSE Composite Index (NYA) makes it a far better indicator of market performance than narrow indexes that have far fewer components.





Key Takeaways

The NYSE Composite Index is a trackable index that reflects the performance of all the stocks listed on the New York Stock Exchange.The NYSE Composite Index has a perception of quality due to strict listing requirements and global diversity due to the breadth of its holdings.The NYSE lists more than 2,400 companies, of which international companies constitute about one-third of total market capitalization.


   Understanding the NYSE Composite Index  

The NYSE Composite Index includes all NYSE-listed stocks, including foreign stocks, American Depositary Receipts, real estate investment trusts, and tracking stocks. The index excludes closed-end funds, ETFs, limited partnerships, and derivatives.



The two biggest benefits to investors of the NYSE Composite Index are (a) its quality, as all constituents must meet the stringent listing requirements of the exchange, and (b) its global diversification, with international companies accounting for about one-third of market capitalization.






The NYSE Composite Index is seen as a better stand-in for the broader stock market than many of its narrower counterparts, due to the number of constituents it has and the global diversity of its holdings.


   How the NYSE Composite Index Works  

The New York Stock Exchange launched the composite index in 1966. It was relaunched in 2003 using a new methodology that is more in line with index methodology applied by popular broad-based US Indexes.﻿﻿



ICE Data Services is the index sponsor and administrator.﻿﻿ Securities Industry Automation Corp maintained and calculated the index until 2003, when it was relaunched with the help of Dow Jones Indexes.



Under the current methodology, the composite index no longer considers a variety of security classes eligible for inclusion: closed-end funds, ETFs, preferred stocks, derivatives, shares of beneficial interest, trust units, and limited partnerships.﻿﻿



The last trading price of the included securities is applied to calculate the composite index. Maintenance includes regular monitoring and adjustments made for companies that are added or deleted from the index. Certain actions by companies, such as stock splits and stock dividends, may call for simple changes to be made in the composite index to account for common shares outstanding as well as stock prices for the included companies. An index divisor adjustment might be required for other types of activity, including the issuance of shares, which lead to changes in the aggregate free-float adjusted market capitalization of the composite index.﻿﻿
