What Is an S Corporation (S Corp)?  

An S corp or S corporation is a business structure that is permitted under the tax code to pass its taxable income, credits, deductions, and losses directly to its shareholders. That gives it certain advantages over the more common C corp, The S corp is available only to small businesses with 100 or fewer shareholders, and is an alternative to the limited liability company (LLC).



Both S corps and LLCs are known as "pass-through entities" because they pay no corporate taxes but instead pay their shareholders, who are responsible for the taxes due.





Key Takeaways

An S corporation or S corp, also known as an S subchapter, is one type of legal business structure common among small business. A limited liability company (LLC) is another.Requirements of an S corp give a corporation with 100 shareholders or less the benefit of incorporation while being taxed as a partnership. Both S corps and LLCs are pass-through entities, meaning that they don’t pay corporate taxes, and both offer limited liability protection for their owners/principals. However, LLCs are more flexible.S corporation shareholders must be individuals, specific trusts and estates, or certain tax-exempt organizations. LLCs aren’t subject to the same Internal Revenue Service (IRS) rules governing the number and type of members, who are typically sole proprietors or small groups of professionals.


   Understanding an S Corporation (S Corp)  

S corporations get their name from Subchapter S of the Internal Revenue Code, under which they’ve elected to be taxed. The key characteristic of a corporation filed under Subchapter S: It may pass business income, losses, deductions, and credits directly to shareholders, without paying any federal corporate tax—making it something known as a pass-through entity. This gives it some special tax benefits under 2017’s Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. However, it is liable on the corporate level for taxes on specific built-in gains and passive income.



Aside from its tax status, an S corp is similar to any other corporation, or C corporation as they’re officially known. It’s a for-profit company, incorporated under and governed by the same state corporation laws. It offers similar liability protection, ownership, and management advantages as a C corporation. It must also observe internal practices and formalities: Have a board of directors, write corporate bylaws, conduct shareholders’ meetings, and keep minutes of significant company meetings.



The main difference between an S corp and a C corp is how each is taxed: Profits from a C corp are taxed to the corporation when earned, then taxed to the shareholders when distributed as dividends, creating a double tax. An S corp may pass income directly to shareholders without having to pay federal corporate taxes.


  IRS Requirements for an S Corp  

To qualify for S corporation status, a business has to meet certain Internal Revenue Service (IRS) requirements. It has to be incorporated domestically (within the United States), have only one class of stock, and not have more than 100 shareholders. In addition, those shareholders must meet certain eligibility requirements, which means that they must be individuals, specific trusts and estates, or certain tax-exempt organizations [501(c)(3)]. Partnerships, corporations, and nonresident aliens cannot qualify as eligible shareholders.






S corp shareholders report income, gains, and losses from the corporation on their individual tax returns, and they pay taxes at their ordinary income tax rates. Since the money comes to them free of corporate tax, they avoid double taxation on any income or earnings from the corporation.


  How to Set up an S Corp  

To create an S corporation, a business must first be incorporated.



It then must file Form 2553 with the IRS. Known officially as Election by a Small Business Corporation, the form states that the IRS will accept the S corp status only if the business meets all the qualifications for the status, “all shareholders have signed the consent statement, an officer has signed below, and the exact name and address of the corporation (entity) and other required form information have been provided.”


   Advantages and Disadvantages of S Corporations  
  Advantages of Registering as an S Corp  

The big advantage is the tax benefit: not having to pay federal taxes at the entity level. Saving money on corporate taxes is beneficial, especially when a business is in its early years.
S corp status can lower the personal income tax tab for the business owners as well. By characterizing money they receive from the business as salary or dividends, S corp owners often lower their liability for self-employment tax. The S corp status generates deductions for business expenses and wages paid to their employees. There are also tax benefits for pass-through entities that apply to S corp owners.
S corp shareholders can be company employees, earn salaries, and receive corporate dividends that are tax free if the distribution does not exceed their stock basis. If dividends exceed a shareholder’s stock basis, the excess is taxed as capital gains—but these are taxed at a lower rate than ordinary income.
Other advantages include being able to transfer interests or adjust property basis without facing adverse tax consequences or having to comply with complex accounting rules.
S corporation status may help establish credibility with potential customers, employees, suppliers, and investors by showing the owner’s formal commitment to the company.


  Disadvantages of Registering as an S Corp  

Because S corporations can disguise salaries as corporate distributions to avoid paying payroll taxes, the IRS scrutinizes how S corps pay their employees. An S corporation must pay reasonable salaries to shareholder-employees for services rendered before any distributions are made.
When it comes to making those distributions to stakeholders, the S corp must allocate profits and losses based strictly on the percentage of ownership or number of shares that each individual holds.
On rare occasions, the IRS may terminate an S corp’s Subchapter S status if an S corp either doesn’t properly allocate profits and losses or makes any other noncompliance moves, such as mistakes in an election, consent, notification, stock ownership, or filing requirement. However, a quick rectification of noncompliance errors can usually avert any adverse consequences.
The business of setting up an S corp requires time and money. The business owner must submit articles of incorporation with the Secretary of State in the state where their company is based. The corporation must obtain a registered agent for the business and pay other fees associated with incorporating itself.
In many states, owners pay annual report fees, a franchise tax, and other miscellaneous fees. However, the charges are typically inexpensive and may be deducted as a cost of doing business. Also, all investors receive dividend and distribution rights, regardless of whether the investors have voting rights.
The limits on the number and nature of shareholders might prove onerous for a business that’s growing rapidly and wants to attract venture capital or institutional investors.





Pros

Tax benefits: no or lesser corporate and self-employment tax for owner, no double taxation for shareholders
Protections of incorporation: limited liability, transfer of interests
Prestige, credibility



Cons

Costs of incorporation
Complex compliance rules
Potentially growth-inhibiting qualifications to maintain status





   S Corp vs. LLC  

A limited liability company (LLC) is another type of legal business entity. Like the S corp, it’s a common go-to structure for small businesses.



LLCs and S corps share other characteristics as well. Both are pass-through entities, meaning that they don’t pay corporate taxes, and both offer limited liability protection for their owners/principals, meaning that the owners’ personal assets can’t be touched by business creditors, nor can they be held personally responsible in lawsuits filed against the company. As a pass-through entity, LLC owners also have tax benefits under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, just as S corp owners do.



However, LLCs are more flexible than S corps. They aren’t subject to the IRS regulations concerning the number and type of shareholders/owners (called “members”) or to other federal or state rules regarding governance, procedure, and distribution of funds. They can allocate their profits and losses in whatever proportions the owners desire.



Easier to establish than S corps, LLCs typically are formed by sole proprietors or small groups of professionals, like attorneys, doctors, or accountants. However, their financing options are more limited—generally, to bank loans, as opposed to equity investors. This can limit their potential for growth.


   U.S. Income Tax Return for an S Corporation  

Although they are largely exempt from corporate taxes, S corporations must still report their earnings to the federal government and file tax returns.



Form 1120-S is essentially an S corp’s tax return. Often accompanied by a Schedule K-1, which delineates the percentage of company shares owned by each individual shareholder, Form 1120-S reports the income, losses, dividends, and other distributions that the corporation has passed onto its shareholders.



Unlike C corps, which must file quarterly, S corps only file once a year, like individual taxpayers. Form 1120-S is simpler than tax forms for C corporations, too. The version for 2022 ran five pages.



As long as a company elects S corporation status (and the IRS has accepted that election), it must file Form 1120-S. The form is due by the 15th day of the third month after the end of its fiscal year—generally, March 15 for companies that follow a calendar year.






Like individuals, S corporations can request a six-month extension to file their tax returns. To do so, they must file Form 7004: Application for Automatic Extension of Time to File Certain Business Income Tax, Information, and Other Returns by their return’s regular due date.




Why Would You Choose an S Corporation (S Corp)?
S corporations can be the best of both worlds for a small business, combining the benefits of corporations with the tax advantages of partnerships.Specifically, S corporations offer the limited liability protection of the corporate structure—meaning that an owner’s personal assets can’t be accessed by business creditors or legal claims against the company. But like partnerships, they don’t pay corporate taxes on any earnings and income that they generate. They can also help owners avoid self-employment tax, if their compensation is structured as a salary or a stock dividend.




What Does S Corporation Stand for?
An S corporation is named for Subchapter S of Chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC). It is taxed under this provision of the IRC. S corps are also known as S subchapters.




How Does an S Corp Work?
In many ways, an S corp works as any corporation does. Operating under its home state’s corporation statutes, it establishes a board of directors and corporate officers, bylaws, and a management structure. It issues shares of company stock. Its owners cannot be held personally or financially liable for claims by creditors or against the company.S corps are distinguished by the fact that they are not federally taxed on most of the earnings that they generate and distribute, leaving more money to pass to shareholders (who do pay taxes on the funds, at their ordinary income rates). The funds must be allocated strictly based on the shareholders’ equity stake or number of shares.S corps must restrict their number of shareholders to 100 or less, and these must all be individuals, nonprofits, or trusts. These stockholders, along with the corporation itself, must be U.S.-based.Come tax time, S corps must distribute the Schedule K-1 form to shareholders, indicating their annual profits or losses from the company, and file Form 1120-S with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).




Which Is Better, a Limited Liability Company (LLC) or an S Corp?
Whether a limited liability company (LLC) or an S corp is better depends on the size and nature of the business and its aspirations for growth.An LLC tends to be preferable for sole proprietors or enterprises with just a few partners, due to its flexibility and ease of establishment. If a business is larger—or aspires to be—then an S corp might work better. S corps have more financing options: Unlike LLCs, they are allowed to offer equity stakes to investors in return for capital, for example. And if their operations are complex, they would benefit from establishing the formal structures, compliance procedures, and other protocols required of corporations.




What Is the Difference Between an S Corp and a C Corporation (C Corp)?
One key difference between S corps and C corporations (C corps) can be expressed in one word: taxes. In a nutshell, C corps pay them and S corps don’t (mostly).C corps pay corporate taxes on their earnings, the way individuals pay income taxes. (In the U.S., corporations are currently taxed at a flat rate of 21%.) Any dividends or other profits are then distributed to shareholders with after-tax funds. S corps, by contrast, are exempt from federal tax on most earnings—there are a few exceptions on certain capital gains and passive income—so they can distribute more gains to stockholders.In return for this tax benefit, S corps face certain IRS-mandated restrictions. They and their shareholders must be domestically based. They can have no more than 100 shareholders, whose ranks are limited to individuals, nonprofits, trusts, and estates—no institutional investors, in other words. And they can issue only one class of stock.C corps do not have to comply with any of these restrictions. Generally (though not always), an S corp is smaller than a C corp.


   The Bottom Line  

S corporations are a common type of legal entity recommended for small businesses. They carry the tax advantages of partnerships while providing the limited liability protections of corporations. Sort of a “corporate lite” structure, they are easy to establish and simpler to maintain than regular C corporations.



S corps require many of the protocols and incur many of the costs associated with regular corporations—starting with the fees and formalities associated with incorporation. They are definitely more expensive to establish and time consuming to maintain than LLCs, another popular small-business structure.



Though advantageous for fast-growing firms, they are also subject to certain restrictions on their size and shareholders by the IRS, which could eventually inhibit their expansion. The good news is that it’s relatively easy for an S corp to change to C corp status, should business conditions prove favorable to do so.
What Is the S&P 500 Index?  

The S&P 500 Index, or Standard & Poor's 500 Index, is a market-capitalization-weighted index of 500 leading publicly traded companies in the U.S. The index actually has 503 components because three of them have two share classes listed.



It is not an exact list of the top 500 U.S. companies by market cap because there are other criteria that the index includes. Still, the S&P 500 index is regarded as one of the best gauges of prominent American equities' performance, and by extension, that of the stock market overall.





Key Takeaways

The S&P 500 Index features 500 leading U.S. publicly traded companies, with a primary emphasis on market capitalization.The S&P 500 Index was launched in 1957 by the credit rating agency Standard and Poor's.The S&P is a float-weighted index, meaning the market capitalizations of the companies in the index are adjusted by the number of shares available for public trading.Because of its depth and diversity, the S&P 500 is widely considered one of the best gauges of large U.S. stocks, and even the entire equities market.You can't directly invest in the S&P 500 because it's an index, but you can invest in one of the many funds that use it as a benchmark, tracking its composition and performance.


   Weighting Formula and Calculation of the S&P 500  

The S&P 500 uses a market-cap weighting method, giving a higher percentage allocation to companies with the largest market capitalizations.








Company Weighting in S & P


=



Company market cap


Total of all market caps




\text{Company Weighting in S \& P}= \frac{\text{Company market cap}}{\text{Total of all market caps}}


Company Weighting in S & P=Total of all market capsCompany market cap​



Determining the weighting of each component of the S&P 500 begins with adding up the total market cap for the index by adding together the market cap of every company in the index.



To review, the market cap of a company is calculated by taking the current stock price and multiplying it by the company's outstanding shares. Fortunately, the total market cap for the S&P 500 as well as the market caps of individual companies are published frequently on financial websites, saving investors the need to calculate them.



The weighting of each company in the index is calculated by taking the company's market cap and dividing it by the total market cap of the index.


  Other S&P Indices  

The S&P 500 is a part of the S&P Global 1200 family of indices. Other indices included are the S&P MidCap 400, which represents the mid-cap range of companies, and the S&P SmallCap 600, which represents small-cap companies. The S&P 500, S&P MidCap 400, and S&P SmallCap 600 combine to cover 90% of all U.S. capitalization in an index known as the S&P Composite 1500.


   S&P 500 Index Construction  

The S&P only uses free-floating shares when calculating market cap, meaning the shares that the public can trade. The S&P adjusts each company's market cap to compensate for new share issues or company mergers. The value of the index is calculated by totaling the adjusted market caps of each company and dividing the result by a divisor. The divisor is proprietary information of the S&P and is not released to the public.



However, you can calculate a company's weighting in the index, which can provide investors with valuable information. If a stock rises or falls, you can get a sense as to whether it might have an impact on the overall index. For example, a company with a 10% weighting will have a greater impact on the value of the index than a company with a 2% weighting.



The S&P 500 is one of the most widely quoted American indexes because it represents the largest publicly traded corporations in the U.S. The S&P 500 focuses on the U.S. market's large-cap sector and is also a float-weighted index (a type of capitalization weighting), meaning company market caps are adjusted by the number of shares available for public trading.






The S&P 500's most recent rebalancing was announced on March 10, 2023, and took effect before markets opened on March 15, 2023. SVB Financial Group was removed from the S&P 500 Index due to the failure of its bank, Silicon Valley Bank. The Federal Deposit Corporation (FDIC) took the group into receivership, making it ineligible for inclusion into the index. It was replaced with Insulet Corp. Similarly, on the same date, Signature Bank was taken into FDIC Receivership and was removed from the index and replaced with Bunge Ltd.


   S&P 500 Competitors  
  S&P 500 vs. Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA)  

Another common U.S. stock market benchmark is the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA). The S&P 500 is often the institutional investor's preferred index given its depth and breadth, while the DJIA has historically been associated with significant equities from the retail investor's point of view. Institutional investors perceive the S&P 500 as more representative of U.S. equity markets because it comprises more stocks across all sectors (500 versus the Dow's 30).



Furthermore, the S&P 500 uses a market-cap weighting method, giving a higher percentage allocation to companies with the largest market caps, while the DJIA is a price-weighted index that gives companies with higher stock prices a higher index weighting. The market-cap-weighted structure tends to be more common than the price-weighted across U.S. indexes.


  S&P 500 vs. Nasdaq  

Nasdaq is a global electronic marketplace for trading securities. There are several equity market indexes that include stocks traded on Nasdaq. Note that a given stock included in the S&P 500 Index may also be in one or more of the various Nasdaq indexes.



Among the most-watched Nasdaq stock indices are the:



Nasdaq 100 Index, which includes 100 of the largest, most actively traded common equities listed on Nasdaq
Nasdaq Composite Index, which the media often simply refers to as the Nasdaq (and which includes more than 2,500 common stocks that trade on Nasdaq)
Nasdaq Global Equity Index (NQGI), which includes international stocks
PHLX Semiconductor Sector Index (SOX), which is the leading barometer of stocks related to the semiconductor industry
OMX Stockholm 30 Index (OMXS30), which includes 30 actively traded stocks on the Stockholm Stock Exchange.


  S&P 500 vs. Russell Indexes  

The S&P 500 is a member of a set of indexes created by Standard & Poor's. The Standard & Poor's set of indexes is like the Russell index family in that both are market-cap-weighted indexes unless stated otherwise (as in the case of equal-weighted indexes, for example).



However, there are two large differences between the construction of the S&P and Russell families of indexes. First, Standard & Poor's chooses constituent companies via a committee, while Russell indexes use a formula to choose stocks to include. Second, there is no name overlap within S&P style indices (growth versus value), while Russell indexes will include the same company in both the value and growth style indexes.


  S&P 500 vs. Vanguard 500 Fund  

The Vanguard 500 Index Fund seeks to track the price and yield performance of the S&P 500 Index by investing its total net assets in the stocks comprising the index and holding each component with approximately the same weight as the S&P index. In this way, the fund barely deviates from the S&P, which it is designed to mimic.






The S&P 500 is an index, so it can't be traded directly. Those who want to invest in the companies that comprise the S&P must invest in a mutual fund or exchange-traded fund (ETF) that tracks the index, such as the Vanguard 500 ETF (VOO).


   Limitations of the S&P 500 Index  

One of the limitations of the S&P and other market-cap-weighted indexes arises when stocks in the index become overvalued, meaning they rise higher than their fundamentals warrant. If a stock has a heavy weighting in the index while being overvalued, the stock typically inflates the overall value or price of the index.



A company's rising market cap isn't necessarily indicative of a company's fundamentals so much as it reflects the stock's increase in value relative to shares outstanding. As a result, equal-weighted indexes have become increasingly popular whereby each company's stock price movements have an equal impact on the index.


   Example of the S&P 500 Market Cap Weighting  

In order to understand how the underlying stocks affect the S&P index, the individual market weights must be calculated by dividing the market cap of each company by the total market cap of the index. Below is an example of Apple's weighting in the index:



Apple (AAPL) reported 15.94 billion shares outstanding in its February 2023 annual filing for the quarter ending Dec. 31, 2022, and had a stock price of $183.96 at the end of the trading day on June 21, 2023.
Apple's market cap is $2.89 trillion as of June 21, 2023.
The S&P 500 total market cap is approximately $36.79 trillion as of May 31, 2023, which is the sum of the market caps for all of the stocks in the index.
Apple's weighting in the index was approximately 7.85%, or $2.89 trillion divided by $36.79 trillion.



Overall, the larger the market weight of a company, the more impact each 1% change in a stock's price will have on the index. Note that S&P does not currently provide the total list of all 503 components on its website, outside of the top 10.








Why Is It Called Standard and Poor's?
The first S&P Index was launched in 1923 as a joint project by the Standard Statistical Bureau and Poor's Publishing. The original index covered 233 companies in 26 different industries. The two companies merged in 1941 to become Standard and Poor's.




Which Companies Qualify for the S&P 500?
In order to be included in the S&P 500 Index, a company must be publicly traded and based in the United States. It also needs to meet certain requirements for liquidity and market capitalization, have a public float of at least 10% of its shares, and have positive earnings over the trailing four quarters.




How Do You Invest in the S&P 500?
The simplest way to invest in the S&P 500 Index (or any other stock market index) is to buy shares of an index fund that targets that index. These funds invest in a cross-section of the companies represented on the index, meaning that the fund's performance should mirror the performance of the index itself.


   The Bottom Line  

The S&P 500 Index is one of the most widely-used indexes for the U.S. stock market. These 500 companies represent the largest and most liquid companies in the U.S., from technology and software companies to banks and manufacturers. Although the index is created by a private company, the S&P 500 is now a popular yardstick for the performance of the market economy at large.
What Is the S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrats Index?  

The S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrats Index is a list of companies from the Standard & Poor's 500 Index (the S&P 500) that have a track record of raising their dividends for at least 25 consecutive years. Each company is equally weighted within the index.





Key Takeaways

The S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrats Index is a list of companies, mainly well-known large-cap, blue-chip companies, in the S&P 500 with a track record of increasing dividends for at least 25 consecutive years.The S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrats Index includes stocks with a float-adjusted market capitalization of at least $3 billion and an average daily trading volume of at least $5 million.A company can be dropped from the S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrats Index if it does not increase its dividend or if it is removed from the broader S&P 500 Index.


   Understanding the S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrats Index  

The S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrats Index tracks the performance of well-known, mainly large-cap, blue-chip companies. Standard & Poor's will remove companies from the index when they fail to increase dividend payments from the previous year. The index is rebalanced quarterly in January, April, July, and October.



The S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrats includes stocks with a float-adjusted market capitalization of at least $3 billion and an average daily trading volume of at least $5 million, in addition to consistently increasing dividend payments. The index requires a minimum of 40 companies and currently has 66 constituents as of July 31, 2023.



The strength of the dividend aristocrats lies in their ability to continually increase dividend payments to shareholders. When compared to the S&P 500 itself, the Aristocrats index has not outperformed the S&P 500, in either 1-year, 3-year, or 5-year annualized returns, as of Aug. 28, 2023.



One criticism of companies on the dividend aristocrats list is they sometimes use share buybacks to facilitate dividend increases. The problem is a true dividend aristocrat should increase payouts to shareholders from year to year, and if the company is overpaying for its shares, it may not be acting in shareholders’ best interests, even if dividends are increasing.


   S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrats Constituents  

Dividend aristocrats come from various industries and sectors and are of varying ages; though of course, they have to have been in business for a quarter-century, at least. Some companies have booked dividend growth for decades, such as Emerson Electric Co. (EMR), which sells electronic products and engineering services to industrial clients.



Other companies, like Roper Technologies (ROP), a designer of software and other products, and A.O. Smith (AOS), which makes water heating and purification equipment, became eligible in 2018.






In Jan. 2023, Nordson Corp, CH Robinson Worldwide Inc, and J. M. Smucker Co were added to the index.



While the Dividend Aristocrats Index tends to feature well-known firms, being a blue-chip stock doesn't guarantee inclusion. A company can be dropped from the index if it does not increase its dividend for one year or if it is removed from the broader S&P 500 Index.  The 2008 recession, in particular, caused the removal of many big-name companies from the list like Bank of America (BAC), General Electric (GE), and Pfizer (PFE).


  Top S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrats  

As of July 31, 2023, nearly half of the S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrat companies fall into one of two sectors: industrials (24.1%) or consumer staples (22.8%). Materials (12.5%), financials (11%), and healthcare (10.4%) are other significant sectors. Here are the 10 leading individual companies as of July 31, 2023.










Top 10 S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrats Constituents by Index Weight 




CONSTITUENT
SYMBOL
SECTOR


Pentair PLC
PNR
Industrials


Stanley Black & Decker Inc
SWK
Industrials


Albemarle Corp
ALB
Materials


Caterpillar Inc
CAT
Industrials


Sherwin-Williams Co
SHW
Materials


Nordson Corp
NDSN
Industrials


Automatic Data Processing Inc
ADP
Industrials


Brown & Brown Inc
BRO
Financials


Intl Business Machines Corp
IBM
Information Technology


Essex Property Trust
ESS
Real Estate



Source: S&P Dow Jones Indices


   Investing in the S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrats  

Exchange-traded funds (ETF) are a popular way of gaining exposure to the list of dividend aristocrats. One popular fund that directly follows the index is the ProShares S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrats ETF (NOBL).



Other funds that track dividend stocks but don't directly follow the index include the iShares Select Dividend ETF (DVY), the SPDR S&P Global Dividend ETF (WDIV), and the iShares Core High Dividend ETF (HDV). Even though they're not trying to track the index, each fund tends to include some of the "aristocrats," since the universe of steadily rising dividend issuers isn't all that diverse.




How Do I Invest in the S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrats?
The best way to invest in the S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrats index is by investing in a fund that tracks the index, such as one of the many SPDR Aristocrats ETFs.




What Is ProShares S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrats?
ProShares S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrats is an exchange-traded fund (ETF) issued by ProShares that seeks to replicate the S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrats Index. It allows individuals seeking returns in the index to be able to invest in it without having to outright purchase the separate shares of each company in the index.




Does the S&P 500 Pay Dividends?
As the S&P 500 is an index, you cannot invest directly in it. You can, however, invest in funds that track the index, such as the SPDR S&P 500 ETF. When you invest in these funds, they pay out the dividends to you.


   The Bottom Line  

For dividend investors, investing in funds that track the S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrat Index could be a good strategy, as the index is made up of companies that have consistently been raising dividends for at least 25 years. Dividends add a strong income component value to stocks.
What Is a Safe Deposit Box?  

A safe deposit box (or safety deposit box) is an individually secured container—usually a metal box—that stays in the safe or vault of a federally insured bank or credit union. Safe deposit boxes are used to keep valuables, important documents, and sentimental keepsakes protected. Customers rely on the security of the building and vault to safeguard their contents.





Key Takeaways:

Safe deposit boxes are designed to withstand natural disasters such as fires, floods, hurricanes, and tornadoes.The only copy of an important document should never be stored in a safe deposit box.Safe deposit boxes are especially useful for people who are uncomfortable storing things in a digital environment.It is wise to have a co-lessor for a safe deposit box. 


   How Safe Deposit Boxes Work  

When you rent a safe deposit box, the bank gives you a key to use, in tandem with a second “guard key” held by a bank employee, to access the box. If your bank uses a keyless system, you will scan your finger or hand instead. Either way, you will have to provide some type of identification—and your key, if it’s not a keyless system—every time you visit the bank to access the box.



An individual can rent a box in their name only, or they can add other people to the lease. Co-lessors on a safe deposit box will have equal access and rights to the contents of the box. For example, people who have an addiction, financial, marriage, and/or judgment issues may not be ideal candidates. 



Some institutions allow access to be set up so that both (or all) lessors must be present to open the safe deposit box. Experts recommend designating someone with power of attorney who can access the safe deposit box.



Safe deposit boxes are a good place to keep your hard-to-replace documents—such as contracts and business papers, military discharge papers, and physical stock and bond certificates—along with small collectibles and family heirlooms. Keep in mind that the largest safe deposit boxes are usually just 10 inches by 10 inches and two feet deep. Good things to store in your safe deposit box are important items that you won’t need frequent access to, including:



Personal papers, such as original birth certificates, adoption papers, marriage licenses, and citizenship papers.
Copies—but not the only copies—of wills and powers of attorney.
Military records and discharge papers (e.g., DD 214s).
School transcripts and diplomas.
Sensitive documents you would not want roommates, children, relatives, and visitors to stumble across.
The deed to your house, along with any car titles.
Paper stock and bond certificates (including U.S. savings bonds), if you have any (most are issued electronically these days).
An inventory of your home’s contents in case you need to file a claim with your homeowner’s insurance policy.
Important business papers and records.
Important contracts.
Hard drives and flash drives with backups and important data.
Financially and/or sentimentally valuable jewelry, collectibles (such as coin or stamp collections), and family keepsakes.
Other documents or small items that would be difficult or impossible to replace.






Safe deposit boxes can’t be accessed 24/7, so it’s best not to put anything in them that might be needed in a hurry.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Safe Deposit Box  

Safe deposit boxes are undoubtedly more secure than most people’s homes. Bank vaults, of course, are harder to break into and are located in secure areas with alarms, video cameras, and top-notch locks. They’re also reinforced to withstand fire, floods, hurricanes, tornadoes, and other natural disasters. 



Although safe deposit boxes are designed to withstand natural disasters, it’s a good idea to put anything that could be damaged by water in a waterproof container, such as a zippered plastic bag, to add another layer of protection. 



It’s best to store items in a safe deposit box that won’t be needed in an emergency. Passports, medical directives, the only copies of wills, and powers of attorney, among other documents, are better kept in a secure spot, such as a fireproof home safe. You’re better off keeping the following items out of your safe deposit box:



PassportsOnly copies of living wills, advanced medical directives, and durable powers of attorneyValuables you have not insuredCashAnything illegal



It's also unwise to store cash or similar investments in a safe deposit box. Since these won't be earning interest, you would actually be losing money due to the bank's leasing fees. To get the most out of your money, you consider looking for the best high-yield savings accounts.



The contents of a safe deposit box are not insured in the same way as a bank or credit union deposits. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insures cash deposits up to a certain limit but, due to the fact that there is no way to verify the contents of a safe deposit box, banks will not insure their contents. Also, if heirs are not told about the location of the drawer, upon non-payment the box is considered abandoned, and its contents are turned over to the state’s unclaimed-property offices for auction.




Pros and Cons

Pro

Offers safe storage of important documents and other valuables.
Provides enhanced security with guards, cameras, and alarm systems that may not be available at home.



Con

Unlike bank accounts, the contents are not ensured.
Safes can only be accessed during the bank's business hours.
Contents can still be lost due to fire, flood, or other disasters.





   Special Considerations  

Safe deposit boxes have been offered by banks for some 150 years—with various other types of safekeeping offered long before that. However, fewer people today are renting safe deposit boxes, opting instead for digital storage and home safes. 



This can make it easier to find an available box—or more difficult if your bank no longer offers them. Betty Riess, a Bank of America spokeswoman, said demand for boxes has dropped “significantly,” especially among younger customers who are more likely to rely on digital storage. According to Riess, fewer than half of her company’s safe deposit boxes are rented.



Some banks now offer the boxes for free depending on the type of account and your balance.




How Much Does a Safe Deposit Box Cost?
The cost of a safe deposit box will depend on the size of the box, the bank, the city it is located in, and of course, availability. Rough estimates place the average cost of a box at a commercial U.S. bank between $20 and $350 per year.




Can a Bank Open Your Safe Deposit Box?
Unlike customer bank accounts, safe deposit boxes are not explicitly regulated or insured by federal banking law. Your bank may be able to force your box open in response to a court order, search warrant, account delinquency, or bank closure. Your safe deposit agreement, or state law, may specify certain circumstances and procedures that the bank must follow when it opens a box without the customer present.




What Should You Not Keep in a Safe Deposit Box?
While safe deposit boxes are a good place to store sentimental valuables and important documents, they should not be used for anything that is irreplacable, or that you might need in a hurry. Living wills, advance medical directives, and durable powers of attorney are a poor choice for a safe deposit box if they are the only copies. Cash is also a bad choice, since you can earn interest by putting it in a savings account.


   The Bottom Line  

Safe deposit boxes are an additional service offered at some banks. For an annual fee, customers can rent a box to store their valuables and important documents in the bank's vault. But this protection is not absolute: unlike regular bank accounts, safe deposit boxes are not insured or protected by federal regulations.
What Is a Safe Harbor?  

A safe harbor is a legal provision to sidestep or eliminate legal or regulatory liability in certain situations, provided that certain conditions are met.



The phrase safe harbor also has uses in the finance, real estate, and legal industries. The term safe harbor may also be used to refer to a "shark repellent" tactic used by companies who want to avert a hostile takeover; the company may purposefully acquire a heavily-regulated company to make themselves look less attractive to the entity that is considering taking them over.



Safe harbors are also accounting methods that avoid legal or tax regulations, or one that allows for a simpler method of determining a tax consequence than the methods described by the precise language of the tax code.





Key Takeaways

A safe harbor is a legal provision to reduce or eliminate legal or regulatory liability in certain situations as long as certain conditions are met. The term also refers to tactics used by companies who want to avert a hostile takeover.Safe harbor can also refer to an accounting method that avoids legal or tax regulations.


   Understanding Safe Harbors  

A safe harbor may refer to a strategy used by companies that are trying to thwart a hostile takeover. In many cases, a company will make special amendments to its charter or bylaws that become active only when a takeover attempt is announced or presented to shareholders with the goal of making the takeover less attractive or profitable to the acquiring firm.



Safe harbor provisions, as they relate to regulatory liability, appear in a number of laws or contracts. For example, under the regulatory guidelines of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), safe harbor provisions protect management from liability for making financial projections and forecasts in good faith.



Similarly, individuals with websites can use a safe harbor provision to protect themselves from copyright infringement cases based on comments left on their websites.


   Types of Safe Harbors  
  Safe Harbor 401(k) Plans  

Safe harbor 401(k) plans feature simple, alternative methods for meeting non-discrimination requirements. Created by the 1996 Small Business Job Protection Act, these retirement accounts were created in response to the fact that many businesses were not setting up 401(k) plans for their employees because the non-discrimination policies were too difficult to understand. These 401(k) plans give the employer safe harbor from compliance concerns by providing them with a simplified product.


  Safe Harbor Accounting Method to Simplify Tax Returns  

Typically, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) requires taxpayers to treat remodels as capitalized improvements, the value of which generally must be claimed slowly over a long period of time.



However, restaurants and retailers often remodel their facilities on a regular basis to help their businesses look fresh and engaging. As a result, the IRS allowed some restaurateurs and retailers the ability to claim these expenses as repair costs, which can then all be deducted as business expenses in the year they were incurred.






Safe harbor accounting methods to reduce taxes is not intended to avoid taxes, only to minimize them within the bounds of the law.



Because of this, tax filers had to review a long list of requirements to determine into which category their expenses fall, and the process was confusing. To eliminate confusion, the IRS created a safe harbor accounting method for eligible retail and restaurant businesses.



Essentially, these businesses can now choose if their remodeling costs fall into the repair or capitalized improvement categories. Due to this safe harbor, businesses don't have to worry about accidentally making the wrong selection and later being penalized for it.


   Example of a Safe Harbor  

To illustrate a safe harbor accounting method that helps a tax filer sidestep a tax regulation, assume a firm is losing money and cannot thus claim an investment credit. It transfers the credit to a company that is profitable and can claim the credit. The profitable company leases the asset back to the unprofitable company and passes on the tax savings.
What Is a Safe Haven?  

A safe haven is a type of investment that is expected to retain or increase in value during times of market turbulence. Investors seek out safe havens in order to limit their exposure to losses in the event of market downturns.



However, assets that are deemed safe havens can vary depending on the specific nature of the down market. So investors should perform ample due diligence to pinpoint the right safe haven for their needs.





Key Takeaways

Safe haven investments offer protection against market downswings.Precious metals, currencies, and stocks from particular sectors have been identified as safe havens in the past.Safe havens in one period of market volatility may react differently in another, so there is no consistent safe haven approach other than portfolio diversity.


   Understanding Safe Havens  

A safe haven investment can diversify an investor’s portfolio and may be beneficial in times of market volatility. Often, when the market rises or falls, it is for a short period of time. However, there are times, such as during an economic recession, when the downturn of the market is prolonged. When the market is in turmoil, the market value of many investments can fall steeply.



When such systemic events occur, some investors look to buy safe-haven assets that are uncorrelated or negatively correlated to the general market during times of distress. While most assets are falling in value, safe havens either retain or increase in value.


   Examples of Safe Havens  

A number of investment securities are considered to be safe havens.


  Gold  

For years, gold has been considered a store of value. As a physical commodity, it cannot be printed like money, and its value is not impacted by interest rate decisions made by a government.



Because gold has historically maintained its value over time, it serves as a form of insurance against adverse economic events. When an adverse event occurs that lingers for a while, investors may decide to pile their funds into gold, which drives up its price.



Also, when there is a threat of inflation, the value of gold increases since it is priced in U.S. dollars. Other commodities, such as silver, copper, sugar, corn, and livestock, are negatively correlated with stocks and bonds and can also serve as safe havens for investors.


  Treasury Bills  

Treasure bills (T-bills) are debt securities that are backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government and, hence, are considered safe havens even in tumultuous economic climates. T-bills are also seen as risk-free, as any principal invested is repaid by the government when the bill matures. Investors, therefore, tend to run to these securities during times of perceived economic chaos.


  Defensive Stocks  

Regardless of the state of the market, consumers are still going to purchase food, health products, and basic home supplies. Therefore, companies operating in the defensive sector will typically retain their values during times of uncertainty, as investors increase their demand for these shares. Examples of defensive stocks include utility, healthcare, biotechnology, and consumer goods companies.


  Cash  

Arguably, cash is considered the only true safe haven during periods of a market downturn. However, cash offers no real return or yield and is negatively impacted by inflation.


  Currencies  

Some currencies are considered safe havens. In volatile markets, investors and currency traders may seek to convert holdings of cash into these currencies for protection.



The Swiss franc is considered a safe-haven currency. Given the stability of the Swiss government and its financial system, the Swiss franc usually faces a strong upward pressure stemming from increased foreign demand. Switzerland has a large, safe, and stable banking industry, a low-volatility capital market, virtually no unemployment, a high standard of living, and positive trade balance figures.



Switzerland's independence from the European Union also makes it somewhat immune to any negative political and economic events that occur in the region. Incidentally, Switzerland is also a tax haven for the wealthy, who take advantage of the country’s high-security and anonymous banking features to evade taxes and hide potentially ill-gotten funds.



In addition to the Swiss franc—and depending on the particular challenge the market is facing—the Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar (USD) are also considered safe-haven assets. Often the U.S. dollar is a default safe haven for companies facing any domestic currency uncertainty due to the fact that it is the world's reserve currency and the denomination for many international business deals.



In a year as tough on equities and bonds as 2022, Morgan Stanley noted that the U.S. dollar played its safe-haven role as expected and helped to diversify portfolios as a result of its negative correlation with global equities. In fact, the investment banking firm pointed out that the safe-haven dollar's power to diversify had even increased as the 120-day correlation between the USD and U.S. stocks reached its lowest point since April 2012.






Real estate such as a home and Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) can also make good safe-haven investments.


   Special Considerations  

The assets listed above are not guaranteed to maintain their values during periods of market volatility. Furthermore, what constitutes a safe haven changes over time. For example, if an entire economic sector is performing poorly, but one company within that sector is performing well, its stock could be considered a safe haven.



Investors should carry out due diligence when looking to invest in safe havens. An asset that is considered a safe haven in a downturn may not necessarily be a good investment when the stock markets are rising.




Are Safe Havens Good for My Portfolio?
They can be one of the ways that you can diversify your portfolio to protect against risk. Safe havens offer stable returns during unstable times. Though their low risk comes with lower potential returns, they can provide stability when high risk investments stumble.




How Does Inflation Impact Safe Havens?
Inflation erodes the purchasing power of investments, even safe havens. Of particular concern would be a rising inflation rate concurrent with a drop in investment account value. Even though safe havens may not drop as much as some other investments, they still suffer from inflation's power to eat away at value.




Is a Safe Haven Worth It?
It depends on what you want in an investment. A safe haven is a lower risk (lower return) investment that can help diversify a portfolio and offset to some degree the greater risk of investments that offer the potential for higher returns. Having both types of investments makes sense for many investors.


   The Bottom Line  

Safe haven investments can be a smart choice for many investors. However, it's important to understand that while safe havens can offer stability and even increasing value during market downturns, they can also provide less of a return during periods of market strength, due to their lower risk.
What Is a Sale?  

A sale is a transaction between two or more parties that involves the exchange of tangible or intangible goods, services, or assets for money. In some cases, assets other than cash are paid to a seller.



In the financial markets, a sale can also refer to an agreement that a buyer and seller make regarding a financial security, its price, and specific arrangements for its delivery.



Regardless of the context, a sale is essentially a contract between a seller of a particular good or service and a buyer who is willing to pay for that good or service.





Key Takeaways

A sale is a transaction between two or more parties in which goods or services are exchanged for money or other assets.In the financial markets, a sale is an agreement between a buyer and seller involving the price of a security and its delivery for agreed-upon compensation.An item or service transferred by one party to another without an exchange of payment is not considered to be a sale, but rather a gift or a donation.Sales occur 24 hours a day, across the globe, in all kinds of industries and are a major part of the essential structure of commerce.A sale can also refer to the reduction in the price of a product or service in an attempt to attract buyers.












Investopedia / Yurle Villegas


   How a Sale Works  

A sale occurs when a seller of goods or services transfers ownership of, and title to, a good or service to a buyer in exchange for a specific amount of money or other specified assets. To complete a sale, both the buyer and the seller must agree to the specific terms of the transaction. These terms can include the price of the good to be sold, the quantity of the good, the method of delivery, and time of delivery.



Importantly, the good or service that is being offered must be available to exchange. The seller must have the legal authority to transfer the item or service to the buyer.



If one party transfers a good or service to another without receiving compensation in return, the transaction is more likely to be treated as a gift or a donation, particularly from an income tax perspective.



Every day, millions of people take part in countless sales transactions across the globe. This creates a constant flow of assets and forms the backbone of the world's economies.


   Types of Sales  

The sale of goods and services within a retail market is a common form of sales transaction. This type of sale might involve a neighborhood business such as a grocery store or a laundromat. It may take place at a big box store or movie theater.
Sales of investment products by financial services institutions are considered to involve more complex exchanges of value. They can take place online or at a bricks-and-mortar location.
A sale can also occur between individuals. For instance, at a yard sale.
Another example of a more complicated sales transaction involving items of great value is the purchase of a vehicle from a car dealership.
Sales can also be transacted between businesses. For example, a raw materials provider might sell available materials to a business that uses those raw materials to produce consumer goods.






To complete a sale, both the buyer and seller must be deemed competent. The good or service in question must be legally available to buy and the seller must have the authority to transfer the item to the buyer. Both parties must agree on the terms of the sale.


   Ways to Pay  

When people ask the question "What is a sale?" their inquiry may involve the ways to pay. In general, there are three main ways to make the payment of money required in a sales transaction.



An individual or business can take actual cash from a buyer at the time of a sales transaction. They then provide the product or service to the customer.Buyers may be able to pay on credit. That means the buyer pays sometime after the sale is made. Usually in such cases, the product is still presented to the buyer at the time of the transaction.Buyers may pay for a good or service in advance, before they've received the actual product or service. A magazine subscription is an example of paying in advance for a product or service.


   Example of a Sale  

When an individual purchases their first home, a sale occurs when the closing documents are signed, money exchanges hands, and the new owner gets the key.



However, there are various aspects to such a sale that lead up to that final, legal exchange of money for property, and beyond. These include the would-be buyer's initial contact with a realtor and meeting with a representative at a lending institution to obtain financing in the form of a mortgage.



Additional sales can extend from an initial sale process. For example, once a home loan is made to the buyer, the lending institution may then sell that loan to another individual as an investment. What's more, an investment manager could conduct sales by trading bundles of mortgages, called mortgage-backed securities, and other kinds of debt financing.




What Are the Basic Elements of a Sale?
The elements of a sale might involve the request by a consumer to buy an item of interest from a seller. The seller could provide information about the product to the buyer, including price, quality, any warranty, a return policy. The buyer and seller could then agree on the terms of the sale. At that point, the seller would indicate the total amount of money required for the purchase. The buyer would provide payment and then take possession of the item.




When Is a Sale Complete?
Normally, a sale is considered complete when the agreed-upon payment for an item is provided by a buyer and accepted by a seller, and the item is presented to the buyer.




Can a Sale Involve Something Other Than an Exchange of Goods?
Yes, a sale can also refer to the reduction in the price of particular goods or services by a seller in order to make those goods or services more attractive financially to potential buyers.


   The Bottom Line  

The Merriam-Webster dictionary defines a sale as the transfer of ownership of, and title to, property from one person to another for a price.



Millions of sales take place every day. The many types of sales transactions made support the financial health of consumers and businesses. Sales drive the well-being of economies and nations all over the world. They are the bedrock of successful commerce.
What Is a Sales and Purchase Agreement (SPA)?  

A sales and purchase agreement (SPA) is a binding legal contract between two parties that obligates a transaction to occur between a buyer and seller. SPAs are typically used for real estate transactions, but they are found in other areas of business. The agreement finalizes the terms and conditions of the sale, and it is the culmination of negotiations between the buyer and the seller.





Key Takeaways

A sales and purchase agreement (SPA) is a binding legal contract that obligates a buyer to buy and a seller to sell a product or service.SPAs are often used in real estate deals or when two parties are transacting a large item or a large number of items.A SPA details important information including the asset, sales price, and payment terms of the sale.A SPA also outlines due diligence periods, conditions that must be met before the sale, and what remediation is available if the product is damaged before the sale.A SPA may include language around confidentiality, contingent sales, and broker commissions.


   Understanding a Sales and Purchase Agreement (SPA)  

Before a transaction can occur, the buyer and the seller negotiate the price of the item to be sold and the conditions for the transaction. The SPA is a framework for the negotiation process. The SPA is often used in cases of a large purchase, such as a piece of real estate, or frequent purchases over a period.



Once signed, the SPA is a legally-binding document between the parties. Typically, the SPA will be prepared and overseen by an independent third-party to facilitate the transactions closing. The agreement also records when the final sale is to occur.


   Contents of a SPA  

Depending on the size of the transaction, there may be a substantial amount of content within a single SPA. Here are some examples of what you may see in a SPA.


  Asset Identification  

A SPA outlines the specific asset that is being sold. In the case of real property, the physical location (i.e. address, parcel numbers) are identified. This section is less robust for the sale of duplicative goods that can easily be interchanged.


  Purchase Price and Conditions  

A SPA defined the exchange price of the transaction. In addition, the agreement outlines what portion of the sale price is due as an upfront deposit as well as how that deposit will be made. This section of the agreement also outlines how the remaining balance (total purchase price less deposit) will be paid.





SPA or PSA?

A 'sale and purchase agreement' may also be referred to as 'purchase and sale agreement'. In this context, a SPA is the exact same as a PSA.


  Due Dilligence  

For the sale of larger assets, there is often a section within the SPA requiring the purchaser to acknowledge their due diligence within the process. The PSA may outline additional due diligence periods that may correspond to additional deposits or upfront payments.



This section also likely includes indemnification statements and the purchaser's acknowledgment of the condition of the assets. The purchaser also usually certifies their right to terminate the deal under certain circumstances. Last, this section may include clarification on who within the purchaser's team has the authority to make representations on behalf of the company.


  Covenants/Conditions Prior to Close  

A SPA generally outlines the next steps in the transactions. These conditions of the sale must occur in order for the sale to be legally binding; any inaction or fail to follow these conditions is considered a breach of contract. Under these circumstances, the purchaser may have the right to terminate the sale (if such rights are identified in the section prior).



Many of these covenants surround risk mitigation and protection of the asset. This section often outlines what a seller must do if there is any unforeseen litigation impacting the transaction. It also outlines what insurance requirements should cover the asset through sale, what warranties will continue to exist, and certifies the exclusivity of the asset being sold.


  Damages/Remedies  

There may be circumstances in which communication is needed to explain what each party will do if the asset being sold is damaged prior to sale or during transit. This section often defines different levels of damage such as minor damage and major damage. Then, the contract outlines various remedies for each level of damage.


  Other Sections  

If applicable, there may be other sections to a SPA. Real estate transactions will often include title and survey information regarding the property. Specific covenants and conditions may include language involving existing tenants or current conditions of the space.



A SPA often outlines applicable broker commissions. Including the dollar amount to be paid, a SPA also details who is responsible for paying commissions as well as the process and timing of issuing those payments.





SPA Length

A SPA can be a single page or it can span hundreds of pages with dozens of supporting exhibits. The purpose of a SPA is to outline at relevant terms and conditions. If there aren't many, the document may be short; if there are many, expect lots of reading.



For transactions that require confidentiality, a SPA outlines the conditions of the deal. This includes the stipulations around public or press releases, use of promotional materials referencing the sale, and remedies in the event one party breaches this aspect of the contract.



If the sale is contingent on other transactions, a SPA will outline the effects of termination in any sale should the other deal fall through. For example, imagine a real estate developer attempting to purchase two properties side-by-side with the intention of demolishing both to create one building. The developer may include language in one SPA holding the deal contingent on the execution of the other SPA.


   Examples of SPAs in the Marketplace  

One of the most common SPAs occurs during real estate transactions. As part of the negotiation process, a final sales price is agreed upon by both parties. Additionally, other items relevant to the transaction, such as a closing date or contingencies, are also included.



SPAs are used by large, publicly traded companies in their supply chains. A SPA may be used when obtaining a large number of materials from a supplier or in the case of a large-scale single purchase. For example, a company may enter into a SPA with a supplier to purchase a defined quantity of goods for a specific price.



A SPA may also function as a contract for revolving purchases such as a monthly delivery of raw materials, inventory, or other tangible goods. The purchase/selling price can be set in advance, even if the delivery is set at a later date or spread out over time. SPAs are set up to help suppliers and purchasers forecast demand and costs, and they become more critical as the transaction size increases.



In another example, a SPA is often required during a transaction in which one business is acquiring another. Because the SPA specifies the exact nature of what is being bought and sold, the agreement may allow a business to sell its tangible assets to a buyer without selling the naming rights associated with the business.




What Is a Sales and Purchase Agreement?
A sales and purchase agreement is a legally binding agreement obligating a buyer and a seller to terms of a transaction. The SPA outlines all of the terms and conditions of the exchange and must be signed by both parties.




Do I Need a Sales and Purchase Agreement?
In the exchange of goods, a SPA protects both the buyer and seller. While a SPA is technically not required, it is often a very good idea to have terms and conditions outlined in a legal document prior to the transaction occurring. You will often have no legal recourse in a failed transaction without a contract in place.




Are SPAs Legally Binding?
Yes, SPAs are legally binding. Often the last document furnished as part of the purchase or sale of an asset, it is signed by authorized representatives from both parties when both sides are prepared to execute the deal.
What Is a Sales Lead?  

A sales lead is a person or business who may eventually become a client. Sales lead also refers to the data that identifies an entity as a potential buyer of a product or service. Businesses gain access to sales leads through advertising, trade shows, direct mailings, third parties, and other marketing efforts. A sales lead is not really a sales "prospect" per se because a business would need to examine and qualify the potential new client further to determine their intent and interest.





Key Takeaways

A sales lead refers to a person or business entity that is currently not a client but may eventually become one.Sales leads can also be the data that identifies someone as a potential buyer of a service or product.Several factors determine the quality of the sales lead, such as the accuracy of the contact information, the incentive used to motivate the prospect, and whether the prospect was aware of the sales opportunity at the time they responded.Companies use a variety of marketing methods to generate sales leads, such as direct response marketing, advertising, sales calls, email marketing, and social media.


   How a Sales Lead Works  

The sales process begins when a sales professional generates, qualifies, and places the sales lead data into a company's sales pipeline. Salesmen use the lead's contact information to send sales-pitch emails, direct marketing materials, and to make outbound sales calls.



Several factors determine the quality of sales leads, such as:



Whether the individual or business had the incentive to offer contact informationThe accuracy of the data providedThe validity of the sales lead



A sales lead's validity depends on whether the targeted person was aware of the sales opportunity when they responded.


   The Age of Internet Sales Leads  

As of 2023, 91.8% of Americans regularly access the internet. Because of this high level of access, the Internet provides ample opportunities to obtain sales leads. However, acquiring sales leads is a strategic process that requires skill and effort.



Businesses gain quality sales leads by using the internet to inform themselves about consumers' unmet needs or problems and then offer solutions to them. For example, technology sector businesses may provide e-books, hold webinars, and broadcast podcasts to enlighten consumers about using a product or software. Sales professionals could hold interactive online sessions and publish question-and-answer (Q&A) materials for a similar purpose.






The internet allows sales professionals to extend their reach globally. However, many internet users are wary of providing their personal information online. Increasingly, consumers are demanding that the information they submit online is kept private.


   Social Media Marketing  

Social media marketing is a type of digital marketing that uses popular social media platforms—such as Facebook, X (formerly Twitter), Pinterest, and Instagram—to reach potential customers and share a company's message. Effective social media marketing campaigns try to engage social media users by encouraging comments, likes, and sharing of the company's messages and posts.



Some social media campaigns are primarily to develop brand awareness of a company's products or services. Others develop sales leads by encouraging viewers to signup or provide their contact details in exchange for a free product, discount, or download.



The "freebie" that the company entices the viewer with is called a lead magnet. Lead magnets can take many forms. Popular ones include trial subscriptions, free consultations, special reports, tip sheets, white papers, and sample products. The marketer will then use the provided contact information to send the prospect additional messages that will entice the person to make an actual purchase.


   Alternative Ways to Find Sales Leads  

The type of business you have, and the customers you are trying to reach, will impact how you look for and acquire sales leads.



Traditional in-person networking tends to be quite effective. Industry trade shows and networking events provide a wealth of sales leads for businesses, as does your local chamber of commerce. Disseminating information about products or services through advertising in local media also is useful.



Social responsibility can foster sales leads as well. By being socially responsible, businesses that give also receive. When a company or its employees donate time, effort, or supplies to local public service and nonprofit organizations, they don't just get to feel good about helping others. They also put their company's name in front of many viewers, sometimes through media coverage, which can generate numerous contacts including sales leads.




What Is a Sales Qualified Lead?
A qualified lead, or sometimes a sales-qualified lead, is a potential customer who has moved through the sales pipeline. Their information has been acquired as a sales lead, and they have demonstrated enough interest that the sales team can work to turn them into an active customer.




How Do Businesses Protect Against Losing Leads's Private Information?
As companies store more data from sales leads and customers, the impact of a privacy breach becomes more serious. Businesses can spend significant money dealing with the fallout of a data breach. Some companies concerned about potential losses they could suffer from privacy breaches of their customers' confidential information will opt to buy cyber and privacy insurance.




How Long Does It Take for Sales Leads to Turn Into Customers?
How long it takes to turn leads into active customers will depend on your business model, type of products or services, ideal customer, and the cost of a purchase. It will be easier, for example, to turn a lead into a customer for a $5 product than for a $500 product because most consumers take longer to make big purchasing decisions. Leads may need to be exposed to your brand or product seven or more times before they are ready to become an active customer.


   The Bottom Line  

A sales lead is a person or business entity that may become a client or customer but isn't one now. It can also refer to the data that a company holds which identifies potential buyers. Companies use many methods to acquire leads, including advertising, direct response marketing, email marketing, social media, and cold calls.



The quality of a sales lead is determined by the accuracy of the contact information you have for them, the incentive used to motivate them to become a prospective buyer, and whether they are aware of the sales opportunity. A qualified sales lead is one that is ready to be passed to the sales team and converted into a customer.
What Is a Sales Tax?  

A sales tax is a consumption tax imposed by the government on the sale of goods and services. A conventional sales tax is levied at the point of sale, collected by the retailer, and passed on to the government.



A business may be liable for sales taxes in a given jurisdiction if it has a presence there, which can be a brick-and-mortar location, an employee, or an affiliate, depending on the laws in that jurisdiction. 





Key Takeaways

A sales tax is a consumption tax on the sale of goods and services. A sales tax is usually charged as a percentage of the retail cost at the point of purchase.Local and municipal governments may charge their own sales tax, which is added to the state sales tax. Four U.S. states do not have any sales taxes, while a fifth—Alaska—has no statewide sales tax. Outside the United States, many countries impose a value-added tax rather than a sales tax. 


   Understanding Sales Tax  

Conventional or retail sales taxes are only charged to the end user of a good or service. Because the majority of goods in modern economies pass through a number of stages of manufacturing, often handled by different entities, a significant amount of documentation is necessary to prove who is ultimately liable for sales tax.



Suppose a sheep farmer sells wool to a company that manufactures yarn. To avoid paying the sales tax, the yarn maker must obtain a resale certificate from the government saying that they are not the end user. The yarn maker then sells the product to a garment maker, who must also obtain a resale certificate. Finally, the garment maker sells fuzzy socks to a retail store, which will charge the customer sales tax as part of the price.



Different jurisdictions charge different sales taxes, and states, counties, and municipalities may levy their own sales taxes. Sales taxes are closely related to use taxes, which apply to items from outside their jurisdiction.



These are generally set at the same rate as sales taxes but are difficult to enforce, except when applied to large purchases of tangible goods. An example would be a Georgia resident who purchases a car in Florida; they would be required to pay the local sales tax as though they had bought it at home.


   Nexus  

A nexus is generally defined as a physical presence, but this "presence" is not limited to having an office or a warehouse. Whether a business owes sales taxes to a particular government depends on the way that government defines a nexus.



Having an employee in a state can constitute a nexus, as can having an affiliate, such as a partner website that directs traffic to your business' page in exchange for a share of profits. This scenario is an example of the tensions between ecommerce and sales taxes. For example, New York has passed "Amazon laws" requiring internet retailers such as Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) to pay sales taxes despite their lack of physical presence in the state.






There are four U.S. states with no sales taxes: Delaware, New Hampshire, Montana, and Oregon. Alaska also has no statewide sales tax but allows city and county governments to charge a local sales tax.


   Excise Taxes  

In general, sales taxes take a percentage of the price of goods sold. A state might have a 4% sales tax, a county 2%, and a city 1.5%, so that residents of that city pay 7.5% in total.



Certain items are often exempt, such as food. Others are exempt below a certain threshold, such as clothing purchases of less than $200.



Conversely, some products carry special taxes, known as excise taxes. "Sin taxes" are a form of excise tax, such as the local excise tax of $1.50 New York City charges per pack of 20 cigarettes on top of the State excise tax of $4.35 per pack of 20 cigarettes.





Sales Tax vs. VAT

A Sales Tax is different from a Value-Added Tax in that the sales tax is only collected once. A VAT is collected throughout the production process.


   Value-Added Tax  

The U.S. is one of the few developed countries where conventional sales taxes are still used. Outside of the U.S., many countries have adopted value-added tax (VAT) schemes. These charge a percentage of the value added at every level of production of a good.



In the example above, the yarn maker would pay a percentage of the difference between what they charge for yarn and what they pay for wool. Similarly, the garment maker would pay the same percentage on the difference between what they charge for socks and what they pay for yarn. This is a tax on each company's gross margins, rather than on the end user.



The main objective of the VAT is to eliminate tax on tax (i.e., double taxation) which cascades from the manufacturing level to the consumption level.



The U.S. system with no VAT implies that tax is paid on the value of goods and margin at every stage of the production process. This would translate to a higher amount of total taxes paid, which is carried down to the end consumer in the form of higher costs for goods and services.




What Is the Sales Tax in California?
California has a statewide sales tax of 7.25%. In addition, some municipalities may impose local sales taxes.




What States Have the Lowest Sales Tax?
The states with the lowest average sales taxes are Hawai'i (4.44%), Wyoming (5.36%), and Alaska (1.76%). In addition, four states (Delaware, New Hampshire, Oregon, and Montana) do not allow any sales tax to be charged at all.




What States Have the Highest Sales Tax?
Louisiana has the highest sales tax, with a statewide average tax of 9.55% according to the AARP. This includes both state and (average) local taxes. Tennessee, Arkansas, and Washington also have high average sales taxes of above 9%.


   The Bottom Line  

A sales tax is a percentage-based tax on finished products at the point of sale. Sales taxes are common in the United States, where each level of government may charge an additional percentage of gross sales. They are less common outside the U.S., where many countries use a value-added tax instead.
What Is Salvage Value?  

Salvage value is the estimated book value of an asset after depreciation is complete, based on what a company expects to receive in exchange for the asset at the end of its useful life. As such, an asset’s estimated salvage value is an important component in the calculation of a depreciation schedule. 





Key Takeaways

Salvage value is the book value of an asset after all depreciation has been fully expensed.The salvage value of an asset is based on what a company expects to receive in exchange for selling or parting out the asset at the end of its useful life.Companies may depreciate their assets fully to $0 because the salvage value is so minimal.Salvage value will influence the total depreciable amount a company uses in its depreciation schedule.A company may calculate salvage value by taking a percentage of the cost, working with an appraiser, or relying on historical data.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding Salvage Value  

An estimated salvage value can be determined for any asset that a company will be depreciating on its books over time. Every company will have its own standards for estimating salvage value. Some companies may choose to always depreciate an asset to $0 because its salvage value is so minimal. In general, the salvage value is important because it will be the carrying value of the asset on a company’s books after depreciation has been fully expensed. It is based on the value a company expects to receive from the sale of the asset at the end of its useful life. In some cases, salvage value may just be a value the company believes it can obtain by selling a depreciated, inoperable asset for parts.


  Depreciation and Salvage Value Assumptions  

Companies take into consideration the matching principle when making assumptions for asset depreciation and salvage value. The matching principle is an accrual accounting concept that requires a company to recognize expense in the same period as the related revenues are earned. If a company expects that an asset will contribute to revenue for a long period of time, it will have a long, useful life.



If a company is not sure of an asset’s useful life, it may estimate a lower number of years and a higher salvage value to carry the asset on its books after full depreciation or sell the asset at its salvage value. If a company wants to front load depreciation expenses, it can use an accelerated depreciation method that deducts more depreciation expenses upfront. Many companies use a salvage value of $0 because they believe that an asset’s utilization has fully matched its expense recognition with revenues over its useful life.






A company can change its expected salvage value at any time. It just needs to prospectively change the estimated amount to book to depreciate each month.


   Depreciation Methods  

There are several assumptions required for developing depreciation schedules. There are five primary methods of depreciation financial accountants can choose from: straight-line, declining balance, double-declining balance, sum-of-years digits, and units of production. The declining balance, double-declining balance, and sum of years digits methods are accelerated depreciation methods with higher depreciation expense upfront in earlier years.



Each of these methods requires consideration for salvage value. An asset's depreciable amount is its total accumulated depreciation after all depreciation expense has been recorded, which is also the result of historical cost minus salvage value. The carrying value of an asset as it is being depreciated is its historical cost minus accumulated depreciation to date.


  Straight-Line Depreciation  

Straight line depreciation is generally the most basic depreciation method. It includes equal depreciation expenses each year throughout the entire useful life until the entire asset is depreciated to its salvage value.



Assume, for example, that a company buys a machine at a cost of $5,000. The company decides on a salvage value of $1,000 and a useful life of five years. Based on these assumptions, the annual depreciation using the straight-line method is: ($5,000 cost - $1,000 salvage value) / 5 years, or $800 per year. This results in a depreciation percentage of 20% ($800/$4,000).


  Declining Balance  

The declining balance method is an accelerated depreciation method. This method depreciates the machine at its straight line depreciation percentage times its remaining depreciable amount each year. Because an asset's carrying value is higher in earlier years, the same percentage causes a larger depreciation expense amount in earlier years, declining each year.



Using the example above, the machine costs $5,000, has a salvage value of $1,000, a 5-year life, and is depreciated at 20% each year, so the expense is $800 in the first year ($4,000 depreciable amount * 20%), $640 in the second year (($4,000 - $800) * 20%), and so on.


  Double-Declining Balance  

The double-declining balance (DDB) method uses a depreciation rate that is twice the rate of straight-line depreciation. In the machine example, the depreciation percentage is 20%. Therefore, the DDB method would record depreciation expenses at (20% x 2) or 40% of the remaining depreciable amount per year.



Both declining balance and DDB require a company to set an initial salvage value to determine the depreciable amount.


  Sum-of-Years Digits  

This method creates a fraction for depreciation calculations. Using the example above, if the useful life is five years the denominator is 5+4+3+2+1=15. The numerator is the number of years left in the asset's useful life. The depreciation expense fraction for each of the five years is then 5/15, 4/15, 3/15, 2/15, and 1/15. Each fraction is multiplied times the total depreciable amount.











Sum of Years




15=5+4+3+2+1
 
 
 


Year 1
4000
5/15
1333.33


Year 2
4000
4/15
1066.67


Year 3
4000
3/15
800.00


Year 4
4000
2/15
533.33


Year 5
4000
1/15
266.67


 
 
 
4000





  Units of Production  

This method requires an estimate for the total units an asset will produce over its useful life. Depreciation expense is then calculated per year based on the number of units produced. This method also calculates depreciation expenses based on the depreciable amount.


   Formula and Calculation of Salvage Value  

There are several ways a company can estimate the salvage value of an asset. First, it may use the percentage of the original cost method. This method assumes that the salvage value is a percentage of the asset's original cost. To calculate the salvage value using this method, multiply the asset's original cost by the salvage value percentage.



Percentage of Cost Method: Original Cost * Anticipated Salvage Value Percentage



Companies can also get an appraisal of the asset by reaching out to an independent, third-party appraiser. This method involves obtaining an independent report of the asset's value at the end of its useful life. This may also be done by using industry-specific data to estimate the asset's value.



Companies can also use comparable data with existing assets they owned, especially if these assets are normally used during the course of business. For example, consider a delivery company that frequently turns over its delivery trucks. That company may have the best sense of data based on their prior use of trucks.






Salvage value is almost never exactly known in advance. Unless there is a contract in place for the sale of the asset at a future date, it's usually an estimated amount.


   Salvage Value vs. Other Values  

Salvage value is the estimated value of an asset at the end of its useful life. It represents the amount that a company could sell the asset for after it has been fully depreciated. On the other hand, book value is the value of an asset as it appears on a company's balance sheet. It is calculated by subtracting accumulated depreciation from the asset's original cost. The balance sheet reports the book value, not the salvage value.



Salvage value is also similar to but still different from residual value. In some contexts, residual value refers to the estimated value of the asset at the end of the lease or loan term, which is used to determine the final payment or buyout price. In other contexts, residual value is the value of the asset at the end of its life less costs to dispose of the asset. In many cases, salvage value may only reflect the value of the asset at the end of its life without consideration of selling costs.



Last, salvage value is most comparable to scrap value. There may be a little nuisance as scrap value may assume the good is not being sold but instead being converted to a raw material. For example, a company may decide it wants to just scrap a company fleet vehicle for $1,000. This $1,000 may also be considered the salvage value, though scrap value is slightly more descriptive of how the company may dispose of the asset.


   Example of Salvage Value  

Imagine a situation where a company acquires a fleet of company vehicles. The company pays $250,000 for eight commuter vans it will use to deliver goods across town. If the company estimates that the entire fleet would be worthless at the end of its useful life, the salve value would be $0, and the company would depreciate the full $250,000.



Let's say the company assumes each vehicle will have a salvage value of $5,000. This means that of the $250,000 the company paid, the company expects to recover $40,000 at the end of the useful life.



To appropriately depreciate these assets, the company would depreciate the net of the cost and salvage value over the useful life of the assets. The total amount to be depreciated would be $210,000 ($250,000 less $40,000). If the assets have a useful life of seven years, the company would depreciate the assets by $30,000 each year.




How Is Salvage Value Calculated?
Salvage value can be calculated by in a few different ways. First, companies can take a percentage of the original cost as the salvage value. Second, companies can rely on an independent appraiser to assess the value. Third, companies can use historical data and comparables to determine a value.




Is Salvage Value the Selling Price?
Yes, salvage value can be considered the selling price that a company can expect to receive for an asset the end of its life. In other cases, that asset may be scrapped or turned into raw materials. However, those materials may be sold. Therefore, the salvage value is simply the financial proceeds a company may expect to receive for an asset when its disposed of, though it may not factor in selling or disposal costs.




What Is Salvage Value vs. Book Value?
Book value is the historical cost of an asset less the accumulated depreciation booked for that asset to date. This amount is carried on a company's financial statement under noncurrent assets. On the other hand, salvage value is an appraised estimate used to factor how much depreciation to calculate. It's a guess on how much the company can get for the asset at the end of its life, and this value, though helpful to determine components of a financial statement, isn't actually reported on a company's financial statement.


   The Bottom Line  

Salvage value is the amount a company can expect to receive for an asset at the end of the asset's useful life. A company uses salvage value to estimate and calculate depreciate as salvage value is deducted from the asset's original cost. A company can also use salvage value to anticipate cashflow and expected future proceeds.
What Is Sampling?  

Sampling is a process in statistical analysis where researchers take a predetermined number of observations from a larger population. Sampling allows researchers to conduct studies about a large group by using a small portion of the population. The method of sampling depends on the type of analysis being performed, but it may include simple random sampling or systematic sampling. Sampling is commonly done in statistics, psychology, and the financial industry.





Key Takeaways

Sampling allows researchers to use a small group from a larger population to make observations and determinations.Types of sampling include random sampling, block sampling, judgment sampling, and systematic sampling.Researchers should be aware of sampling errors, which may be the result of random sampling or bias.Companies use sampling as a marketing tool to identify the needs and wants of their target market.Certified public accountants use sampling during audits to determine the accuracy and completeness of account balances.












Investopedia / Crea Taylor


   How Sampling Works  

It can be difficult for researchers to conduct accurate studies on large populations. In some cases, it can be impossible to study every individual in the group. That's why they often choose a small portion to represent the entire group. This is called a sample. Samples allow researchers to use characteristics of the small group to make estimates of the larger population.



The chosen sample should be a fair representation of the entire population. When taking a sample from a larger population, it is important to consider how the sample is chosen. To get a representative sample, it must be drawn randomly and encompass the whole population. For example, a lottery system could be used to determine the average age of students in a university by sampling 10% of the student body.



Sampling is commonly used when studying large portions of the population for economic purposes. For instance, the monthly employment report involves the use of sampling, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) reports:



The Current Employment Statistics by using 122,000 businesses and government agenciesThe Current Population Survey with a sample of 60,000 different households across the country



Researchers should be aware of sampling errors. This occurs when the sample that is selected doesn't represent the entire population. This means that the results taken from the sample deviate from the larger population. Sampling error may occur randomly or because there is some form of bias. For instance, some members of the sample group may choose not to participate, or they differ in some way from other participants.






Sampling isn't an exact science, so the results should be taken as generalizations. As such, don't make conclusions about the broader population based on the sample group.


   Types of Audit Sampling  

As noted above, there are several different types of sampling that researchers can use. These include random, judgment, block, and systemic sampling. These are discussed in more detail below.


  Random Sampling  

With random sampling, every item within a population has an equal probability of being chosen. It is the furthest removed from any potential bias because there is no human judgement involved in selecting the sample.



For example, a random sample may include choosing the names of 25 employees out of a hat in a company of 250 employees. The population is all 250 employees, and the sample is random because each employee has an equal chance of being chosen.


  Judgment Sampling  

Auditor judgment may be used to select the sample from the full population. An auditor may only be concerned about transactions of a material nature. For example, assume the auditor sets the threshold for materiality for accounts payable transactions at $10,000. If the client provides a complete list of 15 transactions over $10,000, the auditor may just choose to review all transactions due to the small population size.



The auditor may alternatively identify all general ledger accounts with a variance greater than 10% from the prior period. In this case, the auditor is limiting the population from which the sample selection is being derived. Unfortunately, human judgment used in sampling always comes with the potential for bias, whether explicit or implicit.


  Block Sampling  

Block sampling takes a consecutive series of items within the population to use as the sample. For example, a list of all sales transactions in an accounting period could be sorted in various ways, including by date or by dollar amount.



An auditor may request that the company's accountant provide the list in one format or the other in order to select a sample from a specific segment of the list. This method requires very little modification on the auditor's part, but it is likely that a block of transactions will not be representative of the full population.


  Systematic Sampling  

Systematic sampling begins at a random starting point within the population and uses a fixed, periodic interval to select items for a sample. The sampling interval is calculated as the population size divided by the sample size. Despite the sample population being selected in advance, systematic sampling is still considered random if the periodic interval is determined beforehand and the starting point is random.



Assume that an auditor reviews the internal controls related to a company's cash account and wants to test the company policy that stipulates that checks exceeding $10,000 must be signed by two people. The population consists of every company check exceeding $10,000 during the fiscal year, which, in this example, was 300. The auditor uses probability statistics and determines that the sample size should be 20% of the population or 60 checks. The sampling interval is 5 or 300 checks ÷ 60 sample checks.



Therefore, the auditor selects every fifth check for testing. Assuming no errors are found in the sampling test work, the statistical analysis gives the auditor a 95% confidence rate that the check procedure was performed correctly. The auditor tests the sample of 60 checks and finds no errors, so he concludes that the internal control over cash is working properly.


   Example of Sampling  
  Market Sampling  

Businesses aim to sell their products and/or services to target markets. Before presenting products to the market, companies generally identify the needs and wants of their target audience. To do so, they may employ sampling of the target market population to gain a better understanding of those needs to later create a product and/or service that meets those needs. In this case, gathering the opinions of the sample helps to identify the needs of the whole.


  Audit Sampling  

During a financial audit, a certified public accountant (CPA) may use sampling to determine the accuracy and completeness of account balances in their client's financial statements. This is called audit sampling. Audit sampling is necessary when the population (the account transaction information) is large.




What Is Sampling Error?
Sampling error is what happens when the sample collected for review doesn't represent the entire population being studied. This jeopardizes the accuracy and validity of the study being conducted. For instance, sampling error occurs if researchers include professors in the sample when they're trying to determine how students feel about the university experience. Sampling error may be random or the result of some type of bias.




What Is Cluster Sampling?
Cluster sampling is a form of probability sampling. When researchers conduct cluster sampling, they divide the population into smaller groups. They then select individuals randomly from these groups to form their samples and conduct their studies. This kind of sampling is used when both the overall population and sample size is too large to handle.




What's the Difference Between Probability and Non-Probability Sampling?
Probability sampling gives researchers the chance to come to stronger conclusions about the entire population that is being studied. It involves the use of random sampling, which means that all of the participants in the group are equally likely to get a chance to be chosen as a representative sample of the entire population. The result is often unbiased.Non-probability sampling, on the other hand, allows researchers to easily collect information. This type of sampling is generally biased as it is unknown which participants will be chosen as a sample.


   The Bottom Line  

Statisticians often resort to sampling in order to conduct research when they're dealing with large populations. Sampling is a technique that involves taking a small number of participants from a much bigger group. This is often found when data needs to be collected about the population, including statistical analysis, population surveys, and economic studies.
What Is a Sampling Distribution?  

A sampling distribution is a concept used in statistics. It is a probability distribution of a statistic obtained from a larger number of samples drawn from a specific population. The sampling distribution of a given population is the distribution of frequencies of a range of different outcomes that could possibly occur for a statistic of a population. This allows entities like governments and businesses to make more well-informed decisions based on the information they gather. There are a few methods of sampling distribution used by researchers, including the sampling distribution of a mean.






A sampling distribution is a probability distribution of a statistic that is obtained through repeated sampling of a specific population.It describes a range of possible outcomes for a statistic, such as the mean or mode of some variable, of a population.The majority of data analyzed by researchers are actually samples, not populations.






   How Sampling Distributions Work  

Data allows statisticians, researchers, marketers, analysts, and academics to make important conclusions about specific topics and information. It can help businesses make decisions about their future and boost their performance, or it can help governments plan for services needed by a group of people.



A lot of data drawn and used are actually samples rather than populations. A sample is a subset of a population. Put simply, a sample is a smaller part of a larger group. As such, this smaller portion is meant to be representative of the population as a whole.



Sampling distributions (or the distribution of data) are statistical metrics that determine whether an event or certain outcome will take place. This distribution depends on a few different factors, including the sample size, the sampling process involved, and the population as a whole. There are a few steps involved with sampling distribution. These include:



Choosing a random sample from the overall population
Determine a certain statistic from that group, which could be the standard deviation, median, or mean
Establishing a frequency distribution of each sample
Mapping out the distribution on a graph



Once the information is gathered, plotted, and analyzed, researchers can make inferences and conclusions. This can help them make decisions about what to expect in the future. For instance, governments may be able to invest in infrastructure projects based on the needs of a certain community or a company may decide to proceed with a new business venture if the sampling distribution suggests a positive outcome.






Each sample has its own sample mean, and the distribution of the sample means is known as the sample distribution.


   Special Considerations  

The number of observations in a population, the number of observations in a sample, and the procedure used to draw the sample sets determine the variability of a sampling distribution. The standard deviation of a sampling distribution is called the standard error.



While the mean of a sampling distribution is equal to the mean of the population, the standard error depends on the standard deviation of the population, the size of the population, and the size of the sample.



Knowing how spread apart the mean of each of the sample sets are from each other and from the population mean will give an indication of how close the sample mean is to the population mean. The standard error of the sampling distribution decreases as the sample size increases.


   Determining a Sampling Distribution  

Let's say a medical researcher wants to compare the average weight of all babies born in North America from 1995 to 2005 to those from South America within the same time period. Since they cannot draw the data for the entire population within a reasonable amount of time, they would only use 100 babies in each continent to make a conclusion. The data used is the sample and the average weight calculated is the sample mean.



Now suppose they take repeated random samples from the general population and compute the sample mean for each sample group instead. So, for North America, they pull data for 100 newborn weights recorded in the U.S., Canada, and Mexico as follows:



Four 100 samples from select hospitals in the U.S.Five 70 samples from CanadaThree 150 records from Mexico



The researcher ends up with a total of 1,200 weights of newborn babies grouped in 12 sets. They also collect sample data of 100 birth weights from each of the 12 countries in South America.



The average weight computed for each sample set is the sampling distribution of the mean. Not just the mean can be calculated from a sample. Other statistics, such as the standard deviation, variance, proportion, and range can be calculated from sample data. The standard deviation and variance measure the variability of the sampling distribution.


   Types of Sampling Distributions  

Here is a brief description of the types of sampling distributions:



Sampling Distribution of the Mean: This method shows a normal distribution where the middle is the mean of the sampling distribution. As such, it represents the mean of the overall population. In order to get to this point, the researcher must figure out the mean of each sample group and map out the individual data.Sampling Distribution of Proportion: This method involves choosing a sample set from the overall population to get the proportion of the sample. The mean of the proportions ends up becoming the proportions of the larger group. T-Distribution: This type of sampling distribution is common in cases of small sample sizes. It may also be used when there is very little information about the entire population. T-distributions are used to make estimates about the mean and other statistical points.






In statistics, a population is the entire pool from which a statistical sample is drawn. A population may refer to an entire group of people, objects, events, hospital visits, or measurements. A population can thus be said to be an aggregate observation of subjects grouped together by a common feature.


   Plotting Sampling Distributions  

A population or one sample set of numbers will have a normal distribution. However, because a sampling distribution includes multiple sets of observations, it will not necessarily have a bell-curved shape.



Following our example, the population average weight of babies in North America and in South America has a normal distribution because some babies will be underweight (below the mean) or overweight (above the mean), with most babies falling in between (around the mean). If the average weight of newborns in North America is seven pounds, the sample mean weight in each of the 12 sets of sample observations recorded for North America will be close to seven pounds as well.



But if you graph each of the averages calculated in each of the 1,200 sample groups, the resulting shape may result in a uniform distribution, but it is difficult to predict with certainty what the actual shape will turn out to be. The more samples the researcher uses from the population of over a million weight figures, the more the graph will start forming a normal distribution.




Why Is Sampling Used to Gather Population Data?
Sampling is a way to gather and analyze information about a larger group. It is done because researchers aren't able to study entire populations due to the sheer volume of subjects involved. As such, not everyone in the larger group can be included as it may take too long to study and analyze the data. It allows entities like governments and businesses to make important decisions about the future, whether that means investing in an infrastructure project, social service program, or new product.




Why Are Sampling Distributions Used?
Sampling distributions are used in statistics and research. They highlight the chance or probability of an event that may take place. This is based on a set of data that is gathered from a small group within a larger population.




What Is a Mean?
A mean is a metric used in statistics and research. It is the average for at least two numbers. The mean may be determined by adding up all the numbers and dividing the result by the number of numbers in that set. This is known as the arithmetic mean. You can determine the geometric mean by multiplying the values of a data set and taking the root of the sum equal to the number of values within that data set.


   The Bottom Line  

Researchers aren't able to make conclusions about very large groups because of the number of subjects involved. That's why they use sampling. Sampling allows them to take a small group from a large population and analyze data. Once that data is collected, researchers can plot out sampling distributions, which allow them to determine whether an event may take place within a certain population. This may include business growth or population trends, which can help businesses, governments, and other entities make better decisions for the future.
What Is a Sampling Error?  

A sampling error is a statistical error that occurs when an analyst does not select a sample that represents the entire population of data. As a result, the results found in the sample do not represent the results that would be obtained from the entire population.



Sampling is an analysis performed by selecting a number of observations from a larger population. The method of selection can produce both sampling errors and non-sampling errors.





Key Takeaways

A sampling error occurs when the sample used in the study is not representative of the whole population. Sampling is an analysis performed by selecting a number of observations from a larger population.Even randomized samples will have some degree of sampling error because a sample is only an approximation of the population from which it is drawn.The prevalence of sampling errors can be reduced by increasing the sample size.In general, sampling errors can be placed into four categories: population-specific error, selection error, sample frame error, or non-response error.


   Understanding Sampling Errors  

A sampling error is a deviation in the sampled value versus the true population value. Sampling errors occur because the sample is not representative of the population or is biased in some way. Even randomized samples will have some degree of sampling error because a sample is only an approximation of the population from which it is drawn.


   Calculating Sampling Error  

The sampling error formula is used to calculate the overall sampling error in statistical analysis. The sampling error is calculated by dividing the standard deviation of the population by the square root of the size of the sample and then multiplying the resultant with the Z-score value, which is based on the confidence interval.















Sampling Error


=


Z


×



σ



n


















where:
















Z


=


Z


 score value based on the

















 confidence interval (approx


=


1.96


)
















σ


=


Population standard deviation
















n


=


Size of the sample







\begin{aligned}&\text{Sampling Error}=Z\times\frac{\sigma}{\sqrt{n}}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&Z=Z\text{ score value based on the}\\&\qquad\ \text{confidence interval (approx}=1.96)\\&\sigma=\text{Population standard deviation}\\&n=\text{Size of the sample}\end{aligned}


​Sampling Error=Z×n​σ​where:Z=Z score value based on the confidence interval (approx=1.96)σ=Population standard deviationn=Size of the sample​


   Types of Sampling Errors  

There are different categories of sampling errors.


  Population-Specific Error  

A population-specific error occurs when a researcher doesn't understand who to survey.


  Selection Error  

Selection error occurs when the survey is self-selected, or when only those participants who are interested in the survey respond to the questions. Researchers can attempt to overcome selection error by finding ways to encourage participation.


  Sample Frame Error  

A sample frame error occurs when a sample is selected from the wrong population data.


  Non-response Error  

A non-response error occurs when a useful response is not obtained from the surveys because researchers were unable to contact potential respondents (or potential respondents refused to respond).


   Eliminating Sampling Errors  

The prevalence of sampling errors can be reduced by increasing the sample size. As the sample size increases, the sample gets closer to the actual population, which decreases the potential for deviations from the actual population. Consider that the average of a sample of 10 varies more than the average of a sample of 100. Steps can also be taken to ensure that the sample adequately represents the entire population.



Researchers might attempt to reduce sampling errors by replicating their study. This could be accomplished by taking the same measurements repeatedly, using more than one subject or multiple groups, or by undertaking multiple studies.



Random sampling is an additional way to minimize the occurrence of sampling errors. Random sampling establishes a systematic approach to selecting a sample. For example, rather than choosing participants to be interviewed haphazardly, a researcher might choose those whose names appear first, 10th, 20th, 30th, 40th, and so on, on the list.


   Examples of Sampling Errors  

Assume that XYZ Company provides a subscription-based service that allows consumers to pay a monthly fee to stream videos and other types of programming via an Internet connection.



The firm wants to survey homeowners who watch at least 10 hours of programming via the Internet per week and that pay for an existing video streaming service. XYZ wants to determine what percentage of the population is interested in a lower-priced subscription service. If XYZ does not think carefully about the sampling process, several types of sampling errors may occur.



A population specification error would occur if XYZ Company does not understand the specific types of consumers who should be included in the sample. For example, if XYZ creates a population of people between the ages of 15 and 25 years old, many of those consumers do not make the purchasing decision about a video streaming service because they may not work full-time. On the other hand, if XYZ put together a sample of working adults who make purchase decisions, the consumers in this group may not watch 10 hours of video programming each week.



Selection error also causes distortions in the results of a sample. A common example is a survey that only relies on a small portion of people who immediately respond. If XYZ makes an effort to follow up with consumers who don’t initially respond, the results of the survey may change. Furthermore, if XYZ excludes consumers who don’t respond right away, the sample results may not reflect the preferences of the entire population.


   Sampling Error vs. Non-sampling Error  

There are different types of errors that can occur when gathering statistical data. Sampling errors are the seemingly random differences between the characteristics of a sample population and those of the general population. Sampling errors arise because sample sizes are inevitably limited. (It is impossible to sample an entire population in a survey or a census.)






A sampling error can result even when no mistakes of any kind are made; sampling errors occur because no sample will ever perfectly match the data in the universe from which the sample is taken. 



Company XYZ will also want to avoid non-sampling errors. Non-sampling errors are errors that result during data collection and cause the data to differ from the true values. Non-sampling errors are caused by human error, such as a mistake made in the survey process.



If one group of consumers only watches five hours of video programming a week and is included in the survey, that decision is a non-sampling error. Asking questions that are biased is another type of error.




What Is Sampling Error vs. Sampling Bias?
In statistics, sampling means selecting the group that you will actually collect data from in your research.Sampling bias is the expectation, which is known in advance, that a sample won't be representative of the true population. For instance, if the sample ends up having proportionally more women or young people than the overall population.Sampling errors are statistical errors that arise when a sample does not represent the whole population once analyses have been undertaken.




Why Is Sampling Error Important?
Being aware of the presence of sampling errors is important because it can be an indicator of the level of confidence that can be placed in the results. Sampling error is also important in the context of a discussion about how much research results can vary.




How Do You Find the Sampling Error?
In survey research, sampling errors occur because all samples are representative samples: a smaller group that stands in for the whole of your research population. It's impossible to survey the entire group of people you'd like to reach.It’s not usually possible to quantify the degree of sampling error in a study since it's impossible to collect the relevant data from the entire population you are studying. This is why researchers collect representative samples (and representative samples are the reason why there are sampling errors).




What Is Sampling Error vs. Standard Error?
Sampling error is derived from the standard error (SE) by multiplying it by a Z-score value to produce a confidence interval.The standard error is computed by dividing the standard deviation by the square root of the sample size.


   The Bottom Line  

Sampling error occurs when a sample drawn from a population deviates somewhat from that true population. Large sampling errors can lead to incorrect estimates or inferences made about the population based on statistical analysis of that sample.



In general, sampling errors can be placed into four categories: population-specific error, selection error, sample frame error, or non-response error. A population-specific error occurs when the researcher does not understand who they should survey. A selection error occurs when respondents self-select their participation in the study. (This results in only those that are interested in responding, which skews the results.) A sample frame error occurs when the wrong sub-population is used to select a sample. Finally, a non-response error occurs when potential respondents are not successfully contacted or refuse to respond.
What Is a Samurai Bond?  

A Samurai bond is a yen-denominated bond issued in Tokyo by a non-Japanese company and subject to Japanese regulations.



Other types of yen-denominated bonds are called Euroyens and issued in countries other than Japan, typically in London.





Key Takeaways

Samurai bonds are issued in Japan by foreign companies, denominated in yen, and subject to Japanese regulations.Companies might issue bonds in yen to capitalize on low Japanese interest rates, or to gain exposure to Japanese markets and investors.Risks associated with raising capital in Japanese yen can often be mitigated with cross-currency swaps and currency forwards.Shogun bonds, like Samurai bonds, are bonds issued in Japan by foreign firms, but unlike Samurai bonds are denominated in non-yen currencies.


   How a Samurai Bond Works  

A company may choose to enter a foreign market if it believes that it would get attractive interest rates in this market or if it has a need for foreign currency. When a company decides to tap into a foreign market, it can do so by issuing foreign bonds, which are bonds denominated in the currency of the intended market. 



Simply put, a foreign bond is issued in a domestic market by a foreign issuer in the currency of the domestic country. Foreign bonds are mainly used to provide corporate or sovereign issuers with access to another capital market outside their domestic market to raise capital.



A foreign issuer who wants access to the Japanese debt market would issue a bond referred to as a Samurai bond. Samurai bonds give issuers the ability to access investment capital available in Japan. The proceeds from the issuance of Samurai bonds can be used by non-Japanese companies to break into the Japanese market, or it can be converted into the issuing company's local currency to be used on existing operations. 



Issuers may simultaneously convert proceeds from the issue into another currency in order to take advantage of lower costs that may result from investor preferences that differ across segmented markets or from temporary market conditions that differentially affect the swaps and bond markets. Samurai bonds can also be used to hedge against foreign exchange rate risk. Issuing companies that operate in an unstable domestic economy might opt to issue bonds in the Japanese market which is largely defined by its stability.






The benefit of Samurai bonds to investors in Japan is that they are not exposed to currency risks of purchasing bonds in another currency.


   Benefits of a Samurai Bond  

Samurai bonds are denominated in Japanese yen. Thus, Samurai bonds give a company or government an opportunity to expand into the Japanese market without the currency risks normally associated with a foreign investment since the bonds are issued in yen. 



The bonds are subject to Japanese bond regulations, attracting investors from Japan and providing capital to foreign issuers. Since investors bear no currency risk from holding these bonds, Samurai bonds are attractive investment opportunities for Japanese investors.


   Example of a Samurai Bond  

In 2017, to accelerate Indonesia’s infrastructure development program, the Indonesian government issued three-, five-, and seven-year Samurai bonds worth 40 billion yen, 50 billion yen, and 10 billion yen, respectively.



U.S. issuers make up about a third of outstanding Samurai issuers, as of 2017. U.S. issuers cannot deduct their interest costs for newly issued bonds, and investors are subject to a 30% withholding tax on their coupon payments.


   Samurai Bonds vs. Shogun Bonds  

The Samurai bond is not to be confused with the Shogun bond, which is issued in Japan by a non-Japanese issuing entity but denominated in a currency other than the yen.






Other foreign bonds include Kangaroo bonds, Maple bonds, Matador bonds, Yankee bonds, and Bulldog bonds.
What Is the Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) Act of 2002?  

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 is a law the U.S. Congress passed on July 30 of that year to help protect investors from fraudulent financial reporting by corporations. Also known as the SOX Act of 2002, it mandated strict reforms to existing securities regulations and imposed tough new penalties on lawbreakers.



The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 came in response to financial scandals in the early 2000s involving publicly traded companies such as Enron Corporation, Tyco International plc, and WorldCom. The high-profile frauds shook investor confidence in the trustworthiness of corporate financial statements and led many to demand an overhaul of decades-old regulatory standards.





Key Takeaways

The Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) Act of 2002 came in response to highly publicized corporate financial scandals earlier that decade.The act created strict new rules for accountants, auditors, and corporate officers and imposed more stringent recordkeeping requirements.The act also added new criminal penalties for violating securities laws.



The act took its name from its two sponsors—Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-Md.) and Rep. Michael G. Oxley (R-Ohio).












Investopedia / Matthew Collins


   Understanding the Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) Act  

The rules and enforcement policies outlined in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 amended or supplemented existing laws dealing with security regulation, including the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and other laws enforced by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The new law set out reforms and additions in four principal areas:



Corporate responsibilityIncreased criminal punishmentAccounting regulationNew protections


   Major Provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) Act of 2002  

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 is a complex and lengthy piece of legislation. Three of its key provisions are commonly referred to by their section numbers: Section 302, Section 404, and Section 802.﻿﻿






Because of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, corporate officers who knowingly certify false financial statements can go to prison.



Section 302 of the SOX Act of 2002 mandates that senior corporate officers personally certify in writing that the company's financial statements comply with SEC disclosure requirements and "fairly present in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of the issuer" at the time of the financial report. Officers who sign off on financial statements that they know to be inaccurate are subject to criminal penalties, including prison terms.



Section 404 of the SOX Act of 2002 requires that management and auditors establish internal controls and reporting methods to ensure the adequacy of those controls. Some critics of the law have complained that the requirements in Section 404 can have a negative impact on publicly traded companies because it's often expensive to establish and maintain the necessary internal controls.



Section 802 of the SOX Act of 2002 contains the three rules that affect recordkeeping. The first deals with destruction and falsification of records. The second strictly defines the retention period for storing records. The third rule outlines the specific business records that companies need to store, which includes electronic communications.



Besides the financial side of a business, such as audits, accuracy, and controls, the SOX Act of 2002 also outlines requirements for information technology (IT) departments regarding electronic records. The act does not specify a set of business practices in this regard but instead defines which company records need to be kept on file and for how long. The standards outlined in the SOX Act of 2002 do not specify how a business should store its records, just that it's the company IT department's responsibility to store them.
What Is a Savings Account?  










Investopedia / Joules Garcia



A savings account is an interest-bearing deposit account held at a bank or other financial institution. Though these accounts typically pay only a modest interest rate, their safety and reliability make them a good option for parking cash that you want available for short-term needs.



Savings accounts may have some limitations on how often you can withdraw funds, but generally offer exceptional flexibility that’s ideal for building an emergency fund, saving for a short-term goal like buying a car or going on vacation, or simply sweeping surplus cash you don’t need in your checking account so it can earn a little interest.





Key Takeaways

Because savings accounts pay interest while keeping your funds easily accessible, they’re a good option for emergency or short-term cash.In exchange for the ease and liquidity that savings accounts offer, you’ll earn a lower rate than that paid by more restrictive savings instruments and investments.The amount you can withdraw from a savings account is generally unlimited.The interest you earn on a savings account is considered taxable income.


   How Savings Accounts Work  

Savings and other deposit accounts are important sources of funds that financial institutions use for loans. For that reason, you can find savings accounts at virtually every bank or credit union, whether they are traditional brick-and-mortar institutions or operate exclusively online. In addition, you can find savings accounts at some investment and brokerage firms.



Savings account interest rates vary. With the exception of promotions promising a fixed rate until a certain date, banks and credit unions might change their rates at any time. Typically, the more competitive the rate, the more likely it is to fluctuate.



Changes in the federal funds rate can trigger institutions to adjust their deposit rates. Some institutions offer high-yield savings accounts with significantly higher interest rates for larger minimum deposits, which may be worth investigating.






If you're ready to shop for a new savings account, check out Investopedia's list of the best high-yield savings accounts.



Some conventional savings accounts require a minimum balance to avoid monthly fees or earn the highest published rate, while others have no balance requirement. Know the rules of your particular account to ensure you avoid diluting your earnings with fees.



Money can be transferred in or out of your savings account online, at a branch or ATM, by electronic transfer, or direct deposit. Transfers can usually be arranged by phone, as well. 



Some banks limit withdrawals to six per month. The Federal Reserve set that limit as a requirement for savings accounts, but then withdraw it in April 2020. Exceed six withdrawals with some bank, and the bank may charge a fee, close your account, or convert it to a checking account. The amount that can be withdrawn is limited only to how much is in the account.



Just as with the interest earned on a money market, certificate of deposit, or checking account, the interest earned on savings accounts is taxable income.



The financial institution where you hold your account will send a 1099-INT form at tax time whenever you earn more than $10 in interest income. The tax you’ll pay will depend on your marginal tax rate.





Pros

Fast and easy to set up, and to move money to and from.
Can be conveniently linked to your primary checking account.
Up to your full balance can be withdrawn at any time.
Up to $250,000 is federally insured against bank failure.



Cons

Pays less interest than you can earn with certificates of deposit, Treasury bills, or investments.
Easy access can make withdrawals tempting.
Some savings accounts require minimum balances.





   Pros of Savings Accounts Explained  

Fast and easy to set up and move money: Holding a savings account at the same institution as your primary checking account can offer several convenience and efficiency benefits. Because transfers between accounts at the same institution are usually instantaneous, deposits or withdrawals to your savings account from your checking account will take effect right away.



Can be conveniently linked to your primary checking account: This makes it easy to transfer excess cash from your checking account and have it immediately earn interest—or transfer money the other way if you need to cover a large checking transaction. Because of the interest, it makes sense to keep any unneeded funds in a savings account instead of in your checking account, where it will likely earn little or nothing.



Up to your full balance can be withdrawn at any time: Your access to funds in a savings account will remain extremely liquid, unlike certificates of deposit, which impose a hefty penalty if you withdraw your funds too soon.



Up to $250,000 is federally insured against bank failure: Federal protection against bank failures provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC) will keep your money safer than it would be under your mattress or in your sock drawer.


   Cons of Saving Accounts Explained  

Pays less interest than many other instruments or investments: The trade-off for a savings account’s easy access and reliable safety is that it won’t pay as much as other savings instruments. You can earn a higher return with certificates of deposit or Treasury bills, or by investing in stocks and bonds, if your time horizon is long enough.



Easy access can make withdrawals tempting: The ready availability of funds may tempt you to spend what you’ve saved.



Some savings accounts require minimum balances: Certain savings accounts request a minimum balance to avoid monthly fees or earn the highest published rate.


   How to Maximize Earnings From a Savings Account  

Although most major banks offer low interest rates on their savings accounts, many banks and credit unions provide much higher returns. In particular, online banks offer some of the highest savings account rates. Because they don’t have physical branches—or have very few—they spend less on overhead and can often offer higher, more competitive deposit rates as a result.



The key is to shop around, starting with the bank where you hold your checking account. Even if that institution doesn’t offer a competitive savings account rate, it will give you a frame of reference for how much more you can earn by moving your savings or opening an additional account elsewhere.



As you shop for the best rates, however, beware of account features that can curtail your earnings, or even drain them. Some promotional savings accounts will only offer the attractive rate they’re advertising for a short period of time.



Others will cap the balance that can earn the promotional rate, with dollar amounts above that maximum earning a paltry rate. Even worse is a savings account with fees that cut into the interest you earn each month.


   How to Open a Savings Account  

To set up a savings account, visit one of the bank or credit union’s branches, or establish the account online, for those institutions that offer it. You’ll need to provide your name, address, and telephone number, as well as photo identification. Also, because the account earns taxable interest, you’ll be required to provide your Social Security number (SSN).



Some institutions will require you to make an initial minimum deposit at the time you open the account. Others will allow you to open the account first and fund it later.






You can make your initial deposit in a savings account with a transfer from an account at that institution, an external transfer, a mailed-in or mobile deposit check, or a deposit in person at a branch.


   How Much to Keep in Your Savings Account  

The amount you keep in your savings account will depend on your goals for the funds, or your use of the account. If you’ve set up the savings account to sweep excess funds from your checking account, your balance is likely to vary regularly.



In contrast, if you are building up to a savings goal, your balance will likely start low and increase steadily over time.



If you’ve instead established your savings account as an emergency fund, financial advisors typically recommend holding enough savings to cover at least three to six months’ living expenses, giving you a financial cushion in case you lose your job, face a medical issue, or encounter another money-draining emergency.



However, some analysts recommend keeping only some of that emergency fund in a simple savings account, while moving the rest of it to an account or instrument that earns a higher return.



In any case, note that deposits at banks are covered by FDIC insurance and, at credit unions, by NCUA insurance. Both of these protect each individual account holder at the institution for up to $250,000 in deposit balances, should the institution fail. For most consumers, this more than covers what they have on deposit.



But if you are holding more than $250,000 in deposit accounts, you’ll want to split your balance across more than one account holder or institution.




How Do You Open a Savings Account?
You can open a savings account by visiting a bank branch with your government-issued ID and any cash or checks you wish to deposit. You will also be asked for your address, contact information, and a Social Security number or taxpayer identification number (TIN). You may have to open a checking account as well as a savings account, and there may be a minimum deposit threshold. It is also possible to open a savings account with an online bank.




What Savings Account Will Earn You the Most Money?
Savings account rates change often, so it is worth taking the time to compare the offerings from different banks and credit unions. As of April 2023, the best savings rates ranged from about 4.5% to 5.0%.




How Do You Close a Savings Account?
Most banks allow three ways to close an account. You can either visit the bank in person, submit a written cancellation request form, or close the account over the phone. In each case, you may be asked to provide identifying information.


   The Bottom Line  

Savings accounts offer one of the simplest ways to earn interest on the money you have. They offer higher interest rates than a regular checking account, while still making it easy to spend and withdraw money. However, savings account rates are much lower than other investments, and they don't keep pace with inflation.
What Was the Savings and Loan (S&L) Crisis?  

The Savings and Loan (S&L) Crisis was a slow-moving financial disaster. The crisis came to a head and resulted in the failure of nearly a third of the 3,234 savings and loan associations in the United States between 1986 and 1995.



The problem began during the era's volatile interest rate climate, stagflation, and slow growth of the 1970s and ended with a total cost of $160 billion; $132 billion of which was borne by taxpayers. Key to the S&L crisis was a mismatch of regulations to market conditions, speculation, moral hazard brought about by the combination of taxpayer guarantees along with deregulation, as well as outright corruption and fraud, and the implementation of greatly slackened and broadened lending standards that led desperate banks to take far too much risk balanced by far too little capital on hand.





Key Takeaways

The savings and loan crisis was the build-up and extended deflation of a real-estate lending bubble in the United States from the early 1980s to the early 1990s.The S&L crisis culminated in the collapse of hundreds of savings & loan institutions and the insolvency of the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation, which cost taxpayers many billions of dollars and contributed to the recession of 1990–91.The roots of the S&L crisis lay in excessive lending, speculation, and risk-taking driven by the moral hazard created by deregulation and taxpayer bailout guarantees. Some S&Ls led to outright fraud among insiders and some of these S&Ls knew of—and allowed—such fraudulent transactions to happen.As a result of the S&L crisis, Congress passed the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (FIRREA), which amounted to a vast revamp of S&L industry regulations.


   Understanding the Savings and Loan Crisis  

Restrictions placed on S&Ls at their creation via the Federal Home Loan Bank Act of 1932—such as caps on interest rates on deposits and loans—greatly limited the ability of S&Ls to compete with other lenders as the economy slowed and inflation took hold. For instance, as savers piled money into newly created money market funds in the early 1980s, S&Ls could not compete with traditional banks due to their lending restrictions.



Add in a recession—sparked by high-interest rates set by the Fed in an effort to end double-digit inflation—the S&Ls were left with little more than an ever-dwindling portfolio of low-interest mortgage loans. Their revenue stream had become severely tightened.



By 1982, the fortunes of S&Ls had turned. They were losing as much as $4.1 billion per year after having turned a healthy profit in 1980.


   How the Crisis Unfolded  

In 1982, in response to the poor prospects for S&Ls under current economic conditions, President Ronald Reagan signed Garn-St. Germain Depository Institutions Act, which eliminated loan-to-value ratios and interest rate caps for S&Ls, and also allowed them to hold 30% of their assets in consumer loans and 40% in commercial loans. No longer were S&Ls governed by Regulation Q, which led to a tightening of the spread between the cost of money and the rate of return on assets.



With reward uncoupled from risk, zombie thrifts began paying higher and higher rates to attract funds. S&Ls also began investing in riskier commercial real estate and even riskier junk bonds. This strategy of investing in riskier and riskier projects and instruments assumed that they would pay off in higher returns. Of course, if those returns didn’t materialize, it would be taxpayers [through the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation (FSLIC)]—not the banks or S&Ls officials—who would be left holding the bag. That's exactly what eventually happened.



This combination of deregulated lending and capital requirements along with a taxpayer-funded guarantee backstop created an enormous moral hazard in the S&L industry. S&Ls were allowed to take greater risks and incentivized to do so excessively. The result was rapid growth in the industry along with ballooning speculative risk.



At first, the measures seemed to have done the trick, at least for some S&Ls. By 1985, S&L assets had shot up by nearly 50%; far faster growth than banks. S&L growth was especially robust in Texas. Some state legislators allowed S&Ls to double down by allowing them to invest in speculative real estate. Still, over one in five S&Ls were not profitable, as of 1985.



Meantime, although pressure was mounting on the FSLIC's coffers, even failing S&Ls were allowed to keep lending. By 1987, the FSLIC had become insolvent. Rather than allowing it and S&Ls to fail as they were destined to do, the federal government recapitalized the FSLIC, exposing taxpayers to even greater risk. For a while longer, the S&Ls were allowed to continue to pile on risk.


   S&L Fraud  

The "Wild West" attitude among some S&Ls led to outright fraud among insiders. One common fraud saw two partners conspire with an appraiser to buy land using S&L loans and flip it to extract huge profits. Partner 1 would buy a parcel at its appraised market value. The duo would then conspire with an appraiser to have it reappraised at a far higher price. The parcel would then be sold to Partner 2 using a loan from an S&L, which was then defaulted on. Both partners and the appraiser would share the profits. Some S&Ls knew of—and allowed—such fraudulent transactions to happen.



Due to staffing and workload issues, as well as the complexity of such cases, law enforcement was slow to pursue instances of fraud even when they were aware of them.


   Savings and Loan Crisis: Resolution  

As a result of the S&L crisis, Congress passed the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (FIRREA), which amounted to a vast revamp of S&L industry regulations. One of the most significant actions of the FIRREA was the creation of the Resolution Trust Corporation, which had the goal of winding down the failed S&Ls that regulators had taken control of.






FIRREA was passed by George H.W. Bush and provided $50 billion to cover costs and losses associated with the crisis.



The act also put forth minimum capital requirements, raised insurance premiums, limited S&L non-mortgage and mortgage-related holdings to 30%, and required the divestment of junk bonds. When all was said and done, the Resolution Trust Corp. had liquidated more than 700 S&Ls.


   Savings and Loan Crisis: Aftermath  

The S&L crisis was arguably the most catastrophic collapse of the banking industry since the Great Depression. Across the United States, more than 1,000 S&Ls had failed by 1989, essentially ending what had been one of the most secure sources of home mortgages.






The S&L market share for residential mortgages before the crisis was 45% (1980); after, it was 27% (1990).



The one-two punch to the finance industry and the real estate market most likely contributed to the recession of 1990-1991, as new home starts fell to a low not seen since World War II. Some economists speculate that the regulatory and financial incentives that created a moral hazard that led to the 2007 subprime mortgage crisis are very similar to the conditions that led to the S&L crisis.


   Everything's Bigger in Texas  

The crisis was felt doubly hard in Texas where at least half of the failed S&Ls were based. The collapse of the S&L industry pushed the state into a severe recession. Faulty land investments were auctioned off, causing real estate prices to plummet. Office vacancies rose significantly, and the price of crude oil dropped by half. Texas banks, such as Empire Savings and Loan, took part in criminal activities that further caused the Texas economy to plummet. The bill for Empire's eventual default cost taxpayers about $300 million.﻿﻿


   Savings and Loan Crisis: State Insurance  

The FSLIC was established to provide insurance for individuals depositing their hard-earned funds into S&Ls. When S&L banks failed, the FSLIC was left with a $20 billion debt that inevitably left the corporation bankrupt, as premiums paid into the insurer fell far short of liabilities. After the FSLIC's dissolution in 1989, the responsibilities of the defunct institutions were transferred to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) that oversees and insures deposits today.



During the S&L crisis, which did not effectively end until the early 1990s, the deposits of some 500 banks and financial institutions were backed by state-run funds. The collapse of these banks cost at least $185 million and virtually ended the concept of state-run bank insurance funds.


   The Keating Five Scandal  

During this crisis, five U.S. senators known as the Keating Five were investigated by the Senate Ethics Committee due to the $1.5 million in campaign contributions they accepted from Charles Keating, head of the Lincoln Savings and Loan Association. These senators were accused of pressuring the Federal Home Loan Banking Board to overlook suspicious activities in which Keating had participated. The Keating Five included:



John McCain (R–Ariz.)Alan Cranston (D–Calif.)Dennis DeConcini (D–Ariz.)John Glenn (D–Ohio)Donald W. Riegle, Jr. (D–Mich.)



In 1992, the Senate committee determined that Cranston, Riegle, and DeConcini had improperly interfered with the FHLBB's investigation of Lincoln Savings. Cranston received a formal reprimand.



When Lincoln failed in 1989, its bailout cost the government $3 billion and left more than 20,000 customers with junk bonds that were worthless. Keating was convicted of conspiracy, racketeering, and fraud, and served time in prison before his conviction was overturned in 1996. In 1999 he pleaded guilty to lesser charges and was sentenced to time served.


   Savings and Loan Crisis FAQs  
  Do Savings and Loans Still Exist?  

Yes, they do. As of 2019, it is estimated there were 659 savings and loan institutions in the U.S. This is down from 3,371 in 1989.


  How Many People Were Prosecuted for the Savings and Loan Crisis?  

More than 1,000 bankers were convicted by the Justice Department after the Savings and Loan Crisis.


  How Was the S&L Crisis Different or Similar to the Credit Crisis of 2007–2008?  

Both crises were a result of boom and bust cycles. Both banks and thrifts were involved in financing the booms and then were negatively hit when the situation took a downturn. Speculation was present in both crises, with real estate being a big part as well as poor risk management in the institutions.



Commercial real estate was a critical area of causing issues as commercial real estate lending standards were loosened in the 1980s. Most of the banks that failed were small but both crises saw large banks having trouble and needing assistance from the government. In both crises, taxpayer money was used to save these institutions.



The Savings and Loan Crisis, however, involved three recessions, was longer in length, while the 2007-2008 crisis was just one recession and shorter in length. In the Savings and Loan crisis, bank failures were gradual and spread over time, whereas in the 2007-2008 crisis, bank failures were rapid.


  What Could Regulators Have Done Better to Solve the Savings and Loan Crisis?  

Savings and loans should not have been allowed to use federally insured deposits to make risky loans. Regan also cut the budget of the regulatory staff at the FHLBB, removing its ability to investigate poor loans. Certain states also passed laws that allowed savings and loans to invest in speculative real estate, which should not have been allowed.



At the time, banks were also not using mark-to-market accounting, which requires the values of assets to be continuously adjusted to reflect their true value. So banks were not devaluing their assets on their books if they lost value, making them look more profitable than they were.


  How Were Commercial Banks Affected by the Savings and Loan Crisis?  

Both savings and loans and commercial banks have been taxed heavily to pay for the Savings and Loan Crisis. At the end of the 1980s, Congress removed the walls that separated commercial banks and S&Ls, whereby much of the S&L industry today has been folded into the regular banking industry.


   The Bottom Line  

The Savings and Loan Crisis of the 1980s and 1990s was the first large banking crisis after the Great Depression. The crisis resulted in thousands of savings and loan institutions closing and billions of dollars lost, hurting customers and taxpayers. The crisis led to many banking reforms being put in place, but not enough so to avoid another crisis that occurred between 2007–2008, leading to the Great Recession. Lessons are still being learned from the S&L Crisis and further regulations in the banking industry are needed.
What Is Say's Law of Markets?  

Say's Law of Markets comes from chapter XV, "Of the Demand or Market for Products" of French economist Jean-Baptiste Say's 1803 book, Treatise on Political Economy, Or, The Production, Distribution, and Consumption of Wealth. It is a classical economic theory that says that the income generated by past production and sale of goods is the source of spending that creates demand to purchase current production. Modern economists have developed varying views and alternative versions of Say's Law.





Key Takeaways

Say's Law of Markets is theory from classical economics arguing that the ability to purchase something depends on the ability to produce and thereby generate income.Say reasoned that to have the means to buy, a buyer must first have produced something to sell. Thus, the source of demand is production, not money itself.Say's Law implies that production is the key to economic growth and prosperity and the government policy should encourage (but not control) production rather than promoting consumption.


   Understanding Say's Law of Markets  

Say's Law of Markets was developed in 1803 by the French classical economist and journalist, Jean-Baptiste Say. Say was influential because his theories address how a society creates wealth and the nature of economic activity. To have the means to buy, a buyer must first have sold something, Say reasoned. So, the source of demand is prior to the production and sale of goods for money, not money itself. In other words, a person's ability to demand goods or services from others is predicated on the income produced by that person's own past acts of production.






Say's Law says that a buyer's ability to buy is based on the buyer's successful past production for the marketplace.



Say's Law ran counter to the mercantilist view that money is the source of wealth. Under Say's Law, money functions solely as a medium to exchange the value of previously produced goods for new goods as they are produced and brought to market, which by their sale then, in turn, produce money income that fuels demand to subsequently purchase other goods in an ongoing process of production and indirect exchange. To Say, money was simply a means to transfer real economic goods, not an end in itself.



According to Say's Law, a deficiency of demand for a good in the present can occur from a failure of the production of other goods (which would otherwise have sold for sufficient income to purchase the new good), rather than from a shortage of money. Say went on to state that such deficiencies of production of some goods would, under normal circumstances, be relieved before long by the inducement of profits to be made in producing the goods that are in short supply.



However, he pointed out that the scarcity of some goods and glut of others can persist when the breakdown in production is perpetuated by ongoing natural disaster or (more often) government interference. Say's Law, therefore, supports the view that governments should not interfere with the free market and should adopt laissez-faire economics.












Investopedia / Alison Czinkota


   Implications of Say's Law of Markets  

Say drew four conclusions from his argument. 



The greater the number of producers and a variety of products in an economy, the more prosperous it will be. Conversely, those members of a society who consume and do not produce will be a drag on the economy.The success of one producer or industry will benefit other producers and industries whose output they subsequently purchase, and businesses will be more successful when they locate near or trade with other successful businesses. This also means that government policy that encourages production, investment, and prosperity in neighboring countries will redound to the benefit of the domestic economy as well. The importation of goods, even at a trade deficit, is beneficial to the domestic economy.The encouragement of consumption is not beneficial, but harmful, to the economy. The production and accumulation of goods over time constitutes prosperity; consuming without producing eats away the wealth and prosperity of an economy. Good economic policy should consist of encouraging industry and productive activity in general, while leaving the specific direction of which goods to produce and how up to investors, entrepreneurs, and workers in accord with market incentives. 



Say's Law thus contradicted the popular mercantilist view that money is the source of wealth, that the economic interests of industries and countries are in conflict with one another, and that imports are harmful to an economy.


   Later Economists and Say's Law  

Say's Law still lives on in modern neoclassical economic models, and it has also influenced supply-side economists. Supply-side economists especially believe that tax breaks for businesses and other policies intended to spur production, without distorting economic processes, are the best prescription for economic policy, in agreement with the implications of Say's Law.



Austrian economists also hold to Say's Law. Say's recognition of production and exchange as processes occurring over time, focus on different types of goods as opposed to aggregates, emphasis on the role of the entrepreneur to coordinate markets, and conclusion that persistent downturns in economic activity are usually the result of government intervention are all particularly consistent with Austrian theory. 



Say’s Law was later simply (and misleadingly) summarized by economist John Maynard Keynes in his 1936 book, General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money, in the famous phrase, "supply creates its own demand," though Say himself never used that phrase. Keynes rewrote Say's Law, then argued against his own new version to develop his macroeconomic theories. 



Keynes reinterpreted Say's Law as a statement about macroeconomic aggregate production and spending, in disregard of Say's clear and consistent emphasis on the production and exchange of various particular goods against one another. Keynes then concluded that the Great Depression appeared to overturn Say's Law. Keynes' revision of Say's Law led him to argue that an overall glut of production and deficiency of demand had occurred and that economies could experience crises that market forces could not correct.



Keynesian economics argues for economic policy prescriptions that are directly contrary to the implications of Say's Law. Keynesians recommend that governments should intervene to stimulate demand—through expansionary fiscal policy and money printing—because people hoard cash in hard times and during liquidity traps.
What Is Scalability?  

Scalability refers to the ability of an organization (or a system, such as a computer network) to perform well under an increased or expanding workload. A system that scales well will be able to maintain or increase its level of performance even as it is tested by larger and larger operational demands.



In financial markets, scalability describes an institution's ability to handle increased market demands; in the corporate world, a scalable company is one that can maintain or improve its profit margins while sales volume increases.





Key Takeaways

Scalability describes an organization's capacity to adapt to increased workload or market demands.A scalable firm is able to quickly ramp up production to meet demand and at the same time benefit from economies of scale.Scalability has become increasingly relevant in recent years as technology has made it easier to acquire more customers and expand markets globally.


   Understanding Scalability  

Scalability, whether in a financial context or within the context of business strategy, refers to an organization's ability to grow without being hampered by its structure or available resources when faced with increased production. The idea of scalability has become more and more relevant in recent years as technology has made it easier to acquire customers, expand markets, and scale up.



This concept is closely related to the term economies of scale, in which a company is able to reduce its production costs and increase profitability when it produces more of a given product. In effect it is spreading production costs over a greater number of units, making each of them less expensive to produce. By contrast, if increased production leads to greater costs and lower profits, that's known as diseconomies of scale.



According to a study by the management consulting firm McKinsey & Company, "While most companies tend to focus on launching new businesses, the real value comes from being able to scale them up. Based on an analysis of U.S. venture-capital (VC) data, two-thirds of value is created when a company scales up to penetrate a significant portion of the target market."


   Example of Scalability in the Tech Sector  

Some tech companies have an amazing ability to scale quickly, putting them in the coveted category of high-growth enterprises. The reason can be a lack of physical inventory and a software-as-a-service (SaaS) model of producing and delivering goods and services. Companies with low operating overhead and little to no burden of warehousing or maintaining an inventory don't need a lot of resources or infrastructure to grow rapidly.



Even companies that are not directly related to the technology industry have a greater ability to scale up by taking advantage of current technologies.



Customer acquisition through the use of tools like digital advertising has become a lot easier and far less expensive. Banks, for example, can use digital advertising strategies to increase sign-ups for online banking services, expanding their customer base and revenue potential.



Other technologies that help with scaling include labor-saving innovations such as automated warehouse management systems used by large retailers like Amazon and Walmart.


   What Distinguishes a Scalable Company  

At its core, a scalable business is one that focuses on the implementation of processes that lead to an efficient operation. The workflow and structure of the business allow for scalability.



Scalable companies tend to have an established group of leaders, including C-level executives, investors, and advisors, to provide strategy and direction for successful growth. Scalable businesses also have consistent brand messaging across their divisions and locations. A lack of brand enforcement sometimes causes companies to lose sight of their core value, thus decreasing scalability. Yahoo is an example of this. After the company scaled up quickly, it lost sight of its core business and suffered as a result.



A scalable company also has effective tools for measurement, so the entire business can be assessed and managed at each level. This management leads to the efficient operations described above and helps with capital budgeting.




What Does "Scale" Mean in Business?
To scale—or scale up—a business means growing it in such a way that its revenues increasingly outpace its costs.




What Is a Scale-Up in Business?
A scale-up often refers to a business that has survived its start-up phase, established itself in its market, and moved into an early growth phase.




What Is a High-Growth Enterprise?
A high-growth enterprise is one that is successfully scaling up. The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) defines it as having "an average annualized growth greater than 20% a year, over a 3-year period, and with 10 or more employees at the beginning of the observation period." In its definition, the European Union sets the growth threshold at 10%. The OECD also refers to such businesses as "scalers."


   The Bottom Line  

Scalability refers to a business or other entity's capacity to grow to meet increased demand. A business that can scale up successfully should also benefit from economies of scale, where production costs are spread across more units, resulting in higher profit margins.
What Is Scalping?  

Scalping is a trading strategy geared towards profiting from minor price changes in a stock's price. Traders who implement this strategy place anywhere from 10 to a few hundred trades in a single day with the belief that small moves in stock price are easier to catch than large ones; traders who implement this strategy are known as scalpers. Many small profits can easily compound into large gains if a strict exit strategy is used to prevent large losses.





Key Takeaways

Scalping is a trading strategy in which traders profit off small price changes for a stock.Scalping relies on technical analysis, such as candlestick charts and MACD, for execution.The small profits earned with this technique can multiply, provided the trader consistently uses an exit strategy, so as to mitigate losses and reap gains.


   Basics of Scalping  

Scalping utilizes larger position sizes for smaller price gains in the smallest period of holding time. It is performed intraday. The main goal is to buy or sell a number of shares at the bid—or ask—price and then quickly sell them a few cents higher or lower for a profit. The holding times can vary from seconds to minutes, and in some cases up to several hours. The position is closed before the end of the total market trading session, which can extend to 8 p.m. EST.


   Scalping Characteristics  

Scalping is a fast-paced activity for nimble traders. It requires precision timing and execution. Scalpers use day trading buying power of four to one margin to maximize profits with the most shares in the shortest amount of holding time. This requires focusing on the smaller time frame interval charts such as the one-minute and five-minute candlestick charts. Momentum indicators such as stochastic, moving average convergence divergence (MACD), and the relative strength index (RSI) are commonly used. Price chart indicators such as moving averages, Bollinger bands, and pivot points are used as reference points for price support and resistance levels.



Scalping requires account equity to be greater than the minimum $25,000 to avoid the pattern day trader (PDT) rule violation. Margin is required to execute short-sale trades.



Scalpers buy low and sell high, buy high and sell higher, or short high and cover low, or short low and cover lower. They tend to utilize Level 2 and time of sales windows to route orders to the most liquid market makers and ECNs for quick executions. The point-and-click style execution through the Level 2 window or pre-programmed hotkeys are the quickest methods for the speediest order fills. Scalping is purely based on technical analysis and short-term price fluctuations. Due to the extensive use of leverage, scalping is considered a high-risk style of trading.



Some of the common mistakes that scalpers make are poor execution, poor strategy, not taking stop-losses, over-leveraging, late entries, late exits, and overtrading. Scalping generates heavy commissions due to the high number of transactions. A per-share commission pricing structure is beneficial to scalpers, especially for those who tend to scale smaller pieces in and out of positions.


   Psychology Behind Scalping  

Scalpers need to be disciplined and need to stick to their trading regimen very closely. Any decision that needs to be made should be done so with certainty. But scalpers should also be very flexible because market conditions are very fluid and if a trade isn't going as expected, they'll need to fix the situation as quickly as possible without incurring too much of a loss.


   Example of Scalping   

Suppose a trader employs scalping to profit off price movements for a stock ABC trading for $10. The trader will buy and sell a massive tranche of ABC shares, say 50,000, and sell them during opportune price movements of small amounts. For example, they might choose to buy and sell in price increments of $0.05, making small profits that add up at the end of the day because they are making the purchase and sale in bulk.
What Is Scarcity?  

Scarcity is an economics concept rooted in one of the most basic facts of life: we live in a world of limited resources that requires choices about how they are allocated. In that sense, every product down to a pack of gum or a book of matches is scarce, since someone expended resources that could have been deployed elsewhere to produce it.



Scarcity is so fundamental to economics that scarce goods are also known as economic goods. In economics, scarce goods are those for which demand would exceed supply at a price of zero.



Some natural resources that may appear to be free because they are easily and widely accessible eventually prove scarce as they are depleted from overuse in a tragedy of the commons. Economists increasingly view clean air and a climate compatible with human welfare as scarce goods because of the significant cost of protecting them, and may place a price on them for the purposes of a cost-benefit analysis.





Key Takeaways

In economics, the concept of scarcity conveys the opportunity cost of allocating limited resources.Scarce goods are those for which demand would exceed supply if they were freeCommon resources like clean air and a sustainable climate have been increasingly recognized as scarce goods with costs as well as value.Scarcity can also be used to denote the relative availability of production inputs or the decrease in the supply of a resource or product relative to demand over time.












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   Understanding Scarcity  

In his 1932 Essay on the Nature and Significance of Economic Science, British economist Lionel Robbins defined the discipline in terms of scarcity:



Economics is the science which studies human behavior as a relationship between ends and scarce means which have alternative uses.



In a hypothetical world in which everything of value—from food and water to masterworks of art—were so abundant it had no cost, economists would have nothing to study. There would be no need to make decisions about how to allocate resources, hence no need for theories about the interplay of such decisions and tradeoffs in an economy.



In the real world, on the other hand, all factors of production have a cost and therefore so too does every product. Every input incurs an opportunity cost because it can't be put to alternate use as a result. This opportunity cost reflects the inputs' scarcity.


   Natural Resource Scarcity  

Even abundant common resources long consumed at zero apparent cost often prove neither free nor limitless eventually. Climate isn't a tangible asset and its value is hard to calculate, but the costs of climate change for companies as well as the society are all too real. Air is free, but clean air has a cost in terms of the economic activity discouraged to prevent pollution, as well as value for health and quality of life.



To preserve the benefits associated with these resources, governments may require manufacturers and utilities to invest in pollution control equipment, or to adopt cleaner power sources. Governments and the regulated industries eventually pass on these costs to taxpayers and consumers. Breathing freely, in other words, is not really free.


   Relative Scarcity of Inputs  

While scarcity is fundamental to economics and the human condition, the term is also used to describe the relative availability of factors or production or economic inputs.



For example, imagine a hypothetical widget requiring just two labor inputs: workers and managers, with one manager required per 20 workers. Imagine further that the available labor pool consists of 20,000 workers and 5,000 managers. Clearly, there are more available workers than managers. Yet in terms of the proportion required to produce the widgets, workers are the relatively scarce resource, since they're required in a ratio of 20 per manager for production, but outnumber managers by a ratio of only 4 to 1 in the labor pool.



The factors of production compared this way could just as easily be land and dairy cattle. If pasture land were the limiting factor in milk production, land could be said to be relatively scarce. Conversely, if the principal production constraint was the size of the herd, cattle would be the relatively scarce factor of production.


   Scarcity as Market Mover  

Scarcity may also be used to denote a change in a market equilibrium raising the price of the resource based on the law of supply and demand. In those instances, scarcity denotes a decrease over time in the supply of the product or commodity relative to the demand for it.



The growing scarcity reflected in the higher price required to attain a market equilibrium could be attributable to one or more of the following:



Demand-induced scarcity reflecting rising demandSupply-induced scarcity caused by diminished supplyStructural scarcity attributable to mismanagement or inequality




Does Scarcity Mean Something Is Hard to Obtain?
None of the economic definitions of scarcity require a product or resource to be unavailable to be called scarce. In fact, the definition of a market price is one at which supply equals demand, meaning all those willing to obtain the resource at a market price can do so. Scarcity can be used to explain a market shift to a higher price, to compare the availability of economic inputs, or to convey the opportunity cost involved in allocating limited resources.




Are There Goods That Are Not Scarce?
This article is free to read. Other forms of easily reproduced intellectual property, including films and music, derive their scarcity from copyright protection, while the inventors of new drugs and devices must secure patents to deter imitators. In a world of limited resources, many apparently free goods may have an indirect or hidden cost. If the free stock trade does not ensure best execution, perhaps it has a cost, just like clean air.




How Can a Society Deal With Scarcity?
Societies can deal with scarcity by increasing supply. The more goods and services available to all, the less scarcity there will be. Of course, increasing supply comes with limitations, such as production capacity, land available for use, time, and so on. Another way to deal with scarcity is by reducing demand. Rising prices may play that role in market economies, while command economies might use quotas or rationing. In practice, mixed economies also frequently use quotas and price caps.
What Is Scenario Analysis?  

Scenario analysis is the process of estimating the expected value of a portfolio after a given period of time, assuming specific changes in the values of the portfolio's securities or key factors take place, such as a change in the interest rate.



Scenario analysis is commonly used to estimate changes to a portfolio's value in response to an unfavorable event and may be used to examine a theoretical worst-case scenario.






Scenario analysis is only as good as the inputs and assumptions made by the analyst.


   How Scenario Analysis Works  

As a technique, scenario analysis involves computing different reinvestment rates for expected returns that are reinvested within the investment horizon.



Based on mathematical and statistical principles, scenario analysis provides a process to estimate shifts in the value of a portfolio based on the occurrence of different situations—referred to as scenarios—following the principles of "what if" analysis, or sensitivity analysis. Sensitivity analysis is simply how different values of an independent variable affect a dependent variable under specific conditions.



These assessments can be used to examine the amount of risk present within a given investment as related to a variety of potential events, ranging from highly probable to highly improbable. Depending on the results of the analysis, an investor can determine if the level of risk present falls within his comfort zone.





Key Takeaways

Scenario analysis is the process of estimating the expected value of a portfolio after a given change in the values of key factors take place.Both likely scenarios and unlikely worst-case events can be tested in this fashion—often relying on computer simulations.Scenario analysis can apply to investment strategy as well as corporate finance.


   Special Considerations  
  Scenario Analysis Example  

One type of scenario analysis that looks specifically at worst-case scenarios is stress testing. Stress testing is often employed using a computer simulation technique to test the resilience of institutions and investment portfolios against possible future critical situations. Such testing is customarily used by the financial industry to help gauge investment risk and the adequacy of assets.



Stress testing is also used to help evaluate internal processes and controls. In recent years, regulators have also required financial institutions to carry out stress tests to ensure their capital holdings and other assets are adequate.


  Scenario Analysis and Investment Strategy  

There are many different ways to approach scenario analysis. A common method is to determine the standard deviation of daily or monthly security returns and then compute what value is expected for the portfolio if each security generates returns that are two or three standard deviations above and below the average return. This way, an analyst can have a reasonable amount of certainty regarding the change in the value of a portfolio during a given time period, by simulating these extremes.



Scenarios being considered can relate to a single variable, such as the relative success or failure of a new product launch, or a combination of factors, such as the results of the product launch combined with possible changes in the activities of competitor businesses. The goal is to analyze the results of the more extreme outcomes to determine investment strategy.


  Scenario Analysis in Personal and Corporate Finance  

The same process used for examining potential investment scenarios can be applied to various other financial situations in order to examine value shifts based on theoretical scenarios. On the consumer side, a person can use scenario analysis to examine the different financial outcomes of purchasing an item on credit, as opposed to saving the funds for a cash purchase. Additionally, a person can look at the various financial changes that may occur when deciding whether to accept a new job offer.



Businesses can use scenario analysis to analyze the potential financial outcomes of certain decisions, such as selecting one of two facilities or storefronts from which the business could operate. This could include considerations such as the difference in rent, utility charges, and insurance, or any benefit that may exist in one location but not the other.


   Scenario Analysis FAQs  
  What are the advantages of scenario analysis?  

The biggest advantage of scenario analysis is that it acts as an in-depth examination of all possible outcomes. Because of this, it allows managers to test decisions, understand the potential impact of specific variables, and identify potential risks.


  What are the disadvantages of scenario analysis?  

The main disadvantage to scenario analysis is simple: incorrect assumptions can lead to models that are way off the mark—or "garbage in, garbage out."



Scenario analysis is also susceptible to biases of the user and tends to be heavily dependent on historical data.


  What is scenario analysis in risk management?  

As mentioned earlier, scenario analysis involves a thorough look at a wide range of possible outcomes—including those on the downside. This allows risk managers to identify, prepare for, and manage risk exposures.


  What is scenario analysis in strategic management?  

Scenario analysis can be applied to almost any managerial decision, particularly those related to competitive strategy. Said differently, scenario analysis allows managers to test strategic proposals—for example, whether or not to acquire a smaller competitor—and figure out how it will turn out under different conditions.


  What is the difference between scenario analysis and sensitivity analysis?  

Scenario analysis looks at a wide range of possible outcomes, but it analyzes the effect of manipulating all variables at the same time. The result is typically a base-case scenario, a best-case scenario, and a worst-case scenario.



On the other hand, sensitivity analysis assesses the impact of changing just one variable at a time.


   The Bottom Line  

Scenario analysis is the process of estimating the expected value of a portfolio after manipulating a number of key variables. The method can be used in both investment strategy and corporate finance.



While it's a great tool for investors and managers to utilize, scenario analysis is only as good as the assumptions and inputs made by the user.
What Is Schedule 13D?  

Schedule 13D is a form that must be filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) when a person or group acquires more than 5% of a voting class of a company's equity shares. Schedule 13D must be filed within 10 days of the filer reaching a 5% stake. Schedule 13D is also known as a "beneficial ownership report."





Key Takeaways


When a person or group acquires 5% or more of a company's voting shares, they must report it to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Among the questions Schedule 13D asks is the purpose of the transaction, such as a takeover or merger.
If the beneficial owner's holdings change by 1% or more, they must amend their Schedule 13D.



   Understanding Schedule 13D  

Investors may decide to buy a large number of shares in a publicly-held company for a variety of reasons. For example, they could be activist investors attempting a hostile takeover, institutional investors who believe the stock is undervalued, or a dissident shareholder contemplating a proxy contest with the goal of replacing management.



When a person or group of persons acquire a significant ownership stake in a company, characterized as more than 5% of a voting class of its publicly traded securities, the SEC requires that they disclose the purchase on a Schedule 13D form. In some cases, they may be able to use a simpler form, called the Schedule 13G.



Once the disclosure has been filed with the SEC, the public company and the exchange(s) on which the company trades are notified of the new beneficial owner. Schedule 13D is intended to provide transparency to the public regarding who these shareholders are and why they have taken a significant stake in the company. The form signifies to the public that a change of control, such as a hostile takeover or proxy fight, might be about to take place so that current shareholders in the company can make informed investing and voting decisions.



The obligation to file Schedule 13D lies with the new beneficial owner. This is because the target company might not know the person or group behind the transaction. The beneficial owner must file Schedule 13D within 10 days following the purchase of the shares.


   Requirements for Schedule 13D  

Schedule 13D requires that the beneficial owner provide relevant information about several items, which include the following:



Item 1: Security and Issuer. This section asks about the type of securities purchased and the name and address of the company that issued them.



Item 2: Identity and Background. In this section, the buyers identify themselves, including their type of business, citizenship, and any criminal convictions or involvement in civil suits within the past five years.



Item 3: Source and Amount of Funds or Other Considerations. This section notes where the money is coming from, including whether any of it was borrowed.



Item 4: Purpose of Transaction. This section of Schedule 13D alerts investors to any change of control that might be looming. Among other disclosures, beneficial owners must indicate whether they have plans involving a merger, reorganization, or liquidation of the issuer or any of its subsidiaries.



Item 5: Interest in Securities of the Issuer. Here the beneficial owner lists the number of shares being purchased and the percentage of the company's outstanding shares that this purchase represents.



Item 6: Contracts, Arrangements, Understandings, or Relationships with Respect to Securities of the Issuer. The beneficial owner should describe any agreement or relationship they have with any person regarding the target company’s securities. For example, that might involve voting rights, finder's fees, joint ventures, or loans or option arrangements.



Item 7: Material to be Filed as Exhibits. These include copies of any written agreements the beneficial owner has entered into with regard to the securities.


   Special Considerations: Disclosure of Material Changes  

If there are any material changes to the information filed in Schedule 13D, the beneficial owners must amend their Schedule 13D within two days. A material change includes any increase or decrease of at least 1% in the percentage of the class of securities held by the beneficial owner.



Most Schedule 13D filings are available for viewing in the SEC's EDGAR database. The database presents Form 13D as “SC 13D–General statement of acquisition of beneficial ownership.” Any amended form is denoted as SC 13D/A.


   Real World Example of Schedule 13D  

The media conglomerate IAC/InterActiveCorp (IAC), purchased a significant amount of equity shares in MGM Resorts International (MGM). The resulting 13D was filed on August 20, 2020, with the SEC.



Below is a portion of the 13D filing for MGM:



IAC/InterActiveCorp is named as the reporting person (section 1).The number of shares purchased was 59,033,902 (section 7).The purchase represented a 12% ownership in MGM, based on the outstanding shares at the time (section 13).


  Title Page for the 13D Filing:  













MGM Resorts International 13D Filing Example.
Investopedia 


  Details from the 13D Filing  













Example of 13D Filing from MGM Resorts International.
Investopedia
What Is Schedule 13G?  

The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Schedule 13G form is an alternative filing for the Schedule 13D form and is used to report a party's ownership of stock which exceeds 5% of a company's total stock issue. Schedule 13G is a shorter version of Schedule 13D with fewer reporting requirements. Schedule 13G can be filed in lieu of the SEC Schedule 13D form as long as the filer meets one of several exemptions.



Both Schedule 13D and Schedule 13G forms are referred to as "beneficial ownership reports." According to the SEC, a beneficial owner is anyone who directly or indirectly shares voting power or investment power. These forms are intended to provide information about individuals who have significant holdings in publicly-traded companies and thus, allow for other investors and other interested parties to make informed decisions about their own investments. The ownership of over 5% of a publicly-traded stock is considered significant ownership and reporting this to the public is a requirement.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Schedule 13G form is used to report a party's ownership of stock which exceeds 5% of a company's total stock issue.Schedule 13G is a shorter version of Schedule 13D with fewer reporting requirements.Schedule 13G can be filed in lieu of the SEC Schedule 13D form as long as the filer meets one of several exemptions.



Investors and any other interested parties can view the Schedule 13G forms of any publicly-traded company through the SEC's EDGAR system.


   Understanding Schedule 13G  

There are several exemptions that permit a filer to file form Schedule 13G instead of Schedule 13D. Institutional investors can file a Schedule 13G if they acquired securities while doing normal business and they have no intention of influencing control of the issuer. Individuals who are not institutional investors can file a Schedule 13G if they have not acquired the security with the intent of influencing control over the issuer and are not directly or indirectly the beneficial owner of 20% or more of the security. Under Section 13(d)(6)(A) or (B) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, there are additional exemptions for investors. An investor may also be exempt if their beneficial ownership was acquired before December 22, 1970.﻿﻿



There are several filing deadlines for Schedule 13G. For institutional investors, they are required to file within 45 days of the end of the year in which they finish above 5%, or within 10 days of first finishing a month above 10% if the initial filing has not yet been completed. Passive investors are required to file within 10 days of acquiring 5% or more of a security. Finally, exempt investors (as defined by Section 13(d)(6)(A) or (B) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) must file within 45 days of the end of the year in which they become obligated to file.



Any changes to the information contained in a Schedule 13G form must be amended through additional reporting. Institutional investors are required to file an amendment to report any changes within 45 days of the end of the year or within 10 days of first finishing a month above 10% and then within 10 days of any month-end where the holder's ownership increases or decreases by 5% or more. Passive investors have similar requirements for reporting amendments.



The SEC can impose fines on individuals and/or companies for improperly filing Schedule 13G forms or failing to file them. Individuals can be cited if they fail to promptly report information about their holdings and transactions, and companies can be fined if they do not report that their employees have not properly filed any required forms. Even if it is inadvertent, the failure to timely file a required beneficial ownership report is a violation of the requirements set out under Sections 13(d), 13(g), and 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.



It is very important that fund managers and other investors are aware of their internal control policies and procedures. In order to settle improper filing claims with the SEC, individual investors have been forced to pay upwards of $150,000 in financial penalties.﻿﻿ The SEC makes an effort to police these sorts of violations because these forms are intended to protect the public, keeping them aware of the trading activity of insiders and ultimately, preventing insider trading and other acts of stock manipulation.
What Is Schedule A (Form 1040 or 1040-SR): Itemized Deductions?  

Schedule A (Form 1040 or 1040-SR): Itemized Deductions is an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) form for U.S. taxpayers who itemize their tax-deductible expenses rather than take the standard deduction. Schedule A is an attachment to Form 1040 that U.S. taxpayers use to report their annual income taxes.





Key Takeaways


Schedule A is the tax form used by taxpayers who itemize their deductible expenses rather than take the standard deduction.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, passed in 2017, limited the amount taxpayers can deduct for state and local taxes and nearly doubled the standard deduction.
A taxpayer with significant eligible expenses which exceed the standard deduction will file a Schedule A.
Eligible deductions may include qualified medical expenses, state and local taxes, mortgage interest, sales tax payments, and some charitable contributions.



   Who Can File Schedule A?  

Any U.S. taxpayer can file a Schedule A Form and claim itemized deductions as an alternative to taking the standard deduction, choosing the option that provides greater tax savings.



Eligible deductions may include qualified medical expenses, a portion of state and local taxes, mortgage interest, certain sales tax payments, and some charitable contributions.



For the tax year 2022, the standard deduction for single taxpayers and married couples filing separately is $12,950. For married couples filing jointly, it is $25,900, and for heads of households, it is $19,400.For the tax year 2023, the standard deduction for single taxpayers and married couples filing separately is $13,850. For married couples filing jointly, it is $27,700, and for heads of households, it is $20,800.



Many taxpayers who once itemized their deductions on Schedule A have found it more advantageous to claim the standard deduction. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, passed in 2017, limits the amount taxpayers can deduct for state and local taxes to a maximum of $10,000 for married couples or $5,000 for married taxpayers filing separately. The law nearly doubled the previous standard deduction.


   Who Benefits From Filing Schedule A?  

For residents of high-tax states, the $10,000 limit on deductions for state and local taxes may be a deciding factor. If a married couple in the state cannot find an additional $14,000 in eligible deductions on top of the $10,000, they'll likely choose the standard deduction.



Many taxpayers have eligible deductions which total less than the standard deduction and do not need to keep track of their expenses or collect their receipts. Additionally, itemized deductions are subject to challenge by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), while taking the standard deduction is not.



When a taxpayer has significant eligible expenses which exceed the standard deduction, filing Schedule A makes sense. Mortgage interest on an expensive home is often a good benchmark for deciding which to choose.






You can deduct home mortgage interest on the first $750,000 ($375,000 if married, filing separately) of indebtedness. However, higher limitations of $1 million or $500,000 if married filing separately apply if you deduct mortgage interest from debt incurred before December 16, 2017.



If your annual mortgage interest found on your Mortgage Interest Statement, or Form 1098, is higher than the standard deduction, it is advantageous to itemize deductions on Schedule A.


   How to File Schedule A  

The instructions for Schedule A explain which of your expenses are deductible and where they should be listed on the form.













Schedule A can be downloaded on the IRS website.



Schedule A requires taxpayers to list their deductible expenses in any or all of the six designated categories:



Medical and dental expensesTaxes you paidInterest you paidGifts to charityCasualty and theft losses (but only if the property is located in a federally-declared disaster area)Other itemized deductions



Like the standard deduction, the itemized deductions on Schedule A are subtracted from the taxpayer's adjusted gross income (AGI) to determine taxable income. If you itemize your deductions, save documentation of eligible expenses throughout the year, including receipts, invoices, and images of canceled checks.




What Is a Schedule A?
Schedule A is an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) tax form to list itemized deductions when filing taxes. Itemized deductions reduce your taxable income. Filers can choose between either the standard deduction or itemized deduction.




What Can Be Claimed on Schedule A?
Schedule A is used to claim itemized deductions that reduce your taxable income and the total amount of taxes you pay. The categories that can be itemized include taxes, interest paid, gifts to charity, medical and dental expenses, casualty and theft losses, and other miscellaneous expenses.




What Cannot Be Itemized on Schedule A?
Some items which cannot be itemized on Schedule A include federal income and excise taxes, Social Security or Medicare taxes, federal unemployment (FUTA), railroad retirement taxes (RRTA), customs duties, federal gift taxes, per capita taxes, or foreign real property taxes.




Who Files Schedule A?
U.S. taxpayers file Schedule A when itemizing deductions when filing their tax returns. Taxpayers are allowed to either use the standard deduction or itemize deductions. The goal is to choose the method that results in the greatest savings in tax payment.


   The Bottom Line  

Schedule A is the tax form used by taxpayers who itemize their deductible expenses rather than take the standard deduction. A taxpayer with significant eligible expenses that exceed the standard deduction will file a Schedule A and may be able to claim qualified medical costs, state and local taxes, mortgage interest, sales tax payments, and some charitable contributions.
What Is Schedule K-1?  

Schedule K-1 is a federal tax document used to report the income, losses, and dividends for a business' or financial entity's partners or an S corporation's shareholders. The K-1 form is also used to report income distributions from trusts and estates to beneficiaries.



A Schedule K-1 document is prepared for each relevant individual (partner, shareholder, or beneficiary). A partnership then files Form 1065, the partnership tax return that contains the activity on each partner's K-1. An S corporation reports activity on Form 1120-S. Trusts and estates report the K-1 form activity on Form 1041.





Key Takeaways

Business partners, S corporation shareholders, and investors in limited partnerships and certain ETFs use Schedule K-1 to report their earnings, losses, and dividends.Schedule K-1s are usually issued by pass-through business or financial entities, which don't directly pay corporate tax on their income, but shift the tax liability (along with most of their income) to their stakeholders.Schedule K-1 requires the business entity to track each participant’s basis or ownership stake in the enterprise.Several different types of income can be reported on Schedule K-1.Schedule K-1s should be issued to taxpayers no later than Mar. 15 or the third month after the end of the entity's fiscal year.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   Understanding Schedule K-1  

The U.S. federal tax code allows the use of a pass-through strategy in certain instances, which shifts tax liability from the entity (such as a trust or a partnership) to the individuals who have an interest in it.



The entity itself pays no taxes on earnings or income. Rather, any payouts—along with any tax due on them—pass through directly to the stakeholders. This is where Schedule K-1 comes in.



The purpose of the K-1 form is to report each participant's share of the business entity's gains, losses, deductions, credits, and other distributions (whether or not they're actually distributed).



In the case of a partnership, while not filed with an individual partner’s tax return, the financial information posted to each partner’s K-1 form is sent to the IRS with Form 1065. Income generated from partnerships is added to the partner’s other sources of income and entered on Form 1040.






Schedule K-1 is similar to Form 1099, in that it reports dividends, interest, and other annual returns from an investment. Whether you receive a K-1 or a Form 1099 depends on the investment. Master limited partnerships (MLPs), real estate limited partnerships (RELPS) and certain exchange-traded funds (ETFs) are all types of investments that routinely issue K-1s.


   Aspects of Schedule K-1  
  Factoring in Partnership Agreements  

A partnership is defined as a contract between two or more people who decide to work together as partners. The rules of this business arrangement are stated in a partnership agreement. The partnership has at least one general partner (GP) who operates the partnership.



GPs are liable for their actions as partners and for the activities of other GPs in the partnership. Limited partners, on the other hand, are liable for the debts and obligations of the partnership based only on the amount of capital they contribute. The partnership agreement dictates how the partners share profits, which impacts the information on Schedule K-1.


  Basis Calculation  

Schedule K-1 requires the partnership to track each partner’s basis in the partnership. In this context, basis refers to a partner’s investment or ownership stake in the enterprise. A partner’s basis is increased by capital contributions and their share of income. It's reduced by a partner’s share of losses and any withdrawals.



Assume, for example, that a partner contributes $50,000 in cash and $30,000 in equipment to a partnership, and the partner’s share of income is $10,000 for the year. That partner's total basis is $90,000, less any withdrawals they've made.



The basis calculation is important because when the basis balance is zero, any additional payments to the partner are taxed as ordinary income. The basis calculation is reported on Schedule K-1 in the partner’s capital account analysis section.


  Income Reporting  

A partner can earn several types of income on Schedule K-1, including rental income from a partnership’s real estate holdings and income from bond interest and stock dividends.



Many partnership agreements provide guaranteed payments to general partners who invest the time to operate the business venture and those guaranteed payments are reported on Schedule K-1. The guaranteed payments are put in place to compensate the partner for the large time investment.



A partnership may generate royalty income and capital gains or losses, and those items are allocated to each partner’s Schedule K-1, based on the partnership agreement.






Those receiving K-1-reported income should consult with a tax professional to determine if their proceeds trigger the alternative minimum tax.


   Types of Schedule K-1s  

The K-1 forms used by the three entities, partnerships, S-corporations, and trusts vary slightly in the way they look but they all have the same purpose. They report to the IRS, and individual partners, shareholders, and beneficiaries, the amounts of income, losses, deductions, credits and other distributions they may have received.


  K-1 Form for Partnerships  

K-1s are provided to the IRS with the partnership’s tax return (Form 1065) and also to each partner so that they can add the information to their own tax returns.


  K-1 Form for S-Corporations  

S-corporations file an annual tax return using Form 1120-S. They include Schedule K-1 information about each shareholder’s share of income, losses, deductions and credits.


  K-1 Form for Trusts and Estates  

Trusts and estates use Form 1041 to file their tax returns. Beneficiaries receive a K-1 that shows the income that they need to report on their own tax returns.


   Who Files a Schedule K-1?  

Usually, no individual taxpayer typically has to file it but you or your tax preparer will transfer the information on it to an individual tax return. For example:



If you're a partner, use the information on Schedule K-1 to prepare your income tax return(s). You typically aren't required to attach the K-1 form (unless specifically required per the form instructions) but be sure to keep it in your records. The partnership files a copy of Schedule K-1/Form 1065, the U.S. Return of Partnership Income, with the IRS.



If you're a shareholder, use the information on Schedule K-1 (Form 1120-S) to prepare your income tax return(s). Again, you usually aren't meant to include the K-1 form with them but file it with with your records. The corporation files Form 1120-S, the U.S. Income Tax Return for an S Corporation, with the IRS.



If you're a beneficiary of a trust or estate, use the information on Schedule K-1 (Form 1041) to prepare your income tax return(s). The K-1 isn't filed with your tax return, unless backup withholding was reported in box 13, code B. Keep it with your records. The trust or estate files a copy of Schedule K-1/Form 1041 with the IRS.




What Is IRS Schedule K-1?
Schedule K-1 is an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) tax form that's issued annually. It reports the gains, losses, interest, dividends, earnings, and other distributions from certain investments or business entities for the previous tax year. These are usually pass-through entities that don't pay corporate tax themselves, because they directly pass profits on to their stakeholders or investors. Participants in these investments or enterprises use the figures on the K-1 to compute their income, and the tax due on it.




Who Gets an IRS Schedule K-1?
Among those likely to receive a Schedule K-1 are:S corporation shareholdersPartners in limited liability corporations (LLCs), limited liability partnerships (LLPs), or other business partnershipsInvestors in limited partnerships (LPs) or master limited partnerships (MLPs)Investors in certain exchange-traded funds (ETFs) Trust or estate beneficiaries




Is IRS Schedule K-1 Income Considered Earned Income?
It varies, depending on the individual's participation and status. For trust and estate beneficiaries, limited partners, and passive investors, Schedule K-1 income is more akin to unearned income. For general partners and active owners in a business or pass-through business entity, the income can be considered earned income, and they may owe self-employment tax on it.




When Should I Receive My IRS Schedule K-1?
Schedule K-1 forms are notorious for arriving late. The IRS says they are due by March 15 (or the 15th day of the third month after the entity's tax year ends). Whether that means they need to be issued by then, or to actually be in taxpayers' hands by that date, seems open to interpretation. Most authorities agree you should receive one by March 15, or the closest business day to that, though.
What Is Scope?  

Scope refers to the combined objectives and requirements needed to complete a project. The term is often used in project management as well as in consulting. Properly defining the scope of a project allows managers to estimate costs and the time required to finish the project. That's what makes scope management such an important part of a business—it saves both time and money. There are generally two different types of scope in project management. These are project and product scope.





Key Takeaways

Scope outlines the time and cost of a business project.The term is generally used in project management.Project scope encompasses all the work needed for the project, while product scope only focuses on the end result.Scope creep is when uncontrollable changes extend the project deadlines and require effective project management.Properly defining the scope of a project allows managers to estimate costs and the time required to finish the project.


   Understanding Scope  

Scope is a term used in project management. Project management involves the planning and organization of a company's resources to complete a specific task, event, or action and is usually a one-time event. Scope describes the required processes and resources to complete a project or produce a product. By identifying and recognizing different variables of a project through scope management, companies are able to save money.






Properly defining the scope of a project allows managers to estimate costs and the time required to finish the project.



As mentioned above, there are two types of scope—product scope and project scope. The product scope is a way to identify a product or service's functions, while the project scope highlights everything needed to deliver that product or service. In short, product scope represents the functional requirements while project scope is the how-to part of project management.



A deliverable can include any objective or milestone within a project such as the creation of products, services, or processes. Additionally, it can consist of incremental changes, staged across the project plan used to govern or assess the pace of the project’s progress.


   Product Scope vs. Project Scope  
  Product Scope  

Product scope identifies the characteristics and functions of a product or service. These characteristics include physical features such as size and materials, as well as functional specifications. Functional considerations include what the product is designed to do and its purpose or end-use.



Product scope focuses on the result or the actual offering. This is the final product or service. Product scope may also refer to a service or other item for customer use. Product scope often considers how to evaluate whether the object is on track for completion and whether it meets the expected outcome. 


  Project Scope  

Conversely, the project scope encompasses all the work needed to deliver a product or service. In short, the project scope describes how the mission will be accomplished. It includes identifying and documenting the project's goals, deliverables, tasks, project members, deadlines, and milestones. Documentation consists of the scope statement, statement of work, and a breakdown of the work structure. 



The project scope also outlines the project's limits by specifying what is not included within the scope of the plan. It can incorporate information about the project's budget or available resources. Information regarding the project schedule, as well as the assignment of tasks, may also be included in the project scope. Workgroups will often be assigned listing the internal or external personnel who will be involved with the project.


   Special Considerations  

Uncontrollable changes that extend deadlines are known as scope creep. Extended deadlines may change the original requirements of the project's scope. As the project progresses, small changes to the original plan occur, expanding the scope from the initial limits regarding budget and time. Small changes can lead to additional changes, resulting in a cascading effect of further considerations and requirements.



Effective project management considers the possibility of scope creep and incorporates strategies to mitigate it. Understanding the vision or primary objective, proper initial planning, as well as devising and adopting approaches to avoid scope creep from the outset are ways to prevent scope creep.





7-11%

According to the Project Management Institute, the combined project management costs for all phases of a project total somewhere between 7–11% of the project's true interest cost.


   Visualizing a Project's Scope  

Project managers use a variety of tools to plan and communicate a project's scope. Two popular tools to do this are the Gantt chart and the program evaluation review technique (PERT).



The Gantt chart is a graphical depiction of a project schedule. It is a bar chart that shows the start and finish dates of several elements of a project that include resources, milestones, tasks, and dependencies. Henry Gantt, an American mechanical engineer, designed the Gantt chart.



The program evaluation review technique (PERT) chart is a visual representation of a series of events that must occur within the scope of a project’s lifetime. A PERT chart allows managers to evaluate the time and resources necessary to manage a project. This evaluation includes the ability to track required assets during any stage of production in the course of the entire project.


   Scope FAQs  
  What Does Scope Mean?  

In the business world, scope refers to the combined objectives and requirements needed to complete a project. Scope is a term commonly used by project managers.


  What Is an Example of the Economies of Scope?  

Company ABC wants to increase its product line and remodels its manufacturing building to produce a variety of electronic devices, such as laptops, tablets, and phones. Since the cost of operating the manufacturing building is spread out across a variety of products, the average total cost of production decreases. The costs of producing each electronic device in another building would be greater than just using a single manufacturing building to produce multiple products.


  What Is the Difference Between Scope and Scale?  

Economies of scope focus on the average total cost of production of a variety of goods. In contrast, economies of scale focus on the cost advantage that arises when there is a higher level of production for a single good.


  What Is the Scope of a Project?  

The scope of a project is a detailed outline which encompasses all the work needed to deliver a product or service. This includes the project's goals, deliverables, tasks, project members, deadlines, and milestones.


  How Do You Write a Project Scope Statement?  

A proper project scope statement should include the following elements: an introduction stating the purpose of the project, the deliverables required to complete the project, a determination of the project's milestones, as well as any constraints or exclusions.


   The Bottom Line  

In order to properly execute the rollout of a new project or product, it is essential to have a firm grasp of the project's scope. With its comprehensive look at a business's operations and assets, scope is a concept of the utmost importance to project managers and businesses as a whole.
What Is a Scrip?  

A scrip is is a substitute or alternative to legal tender. Holding a scrip entitles the bearer to receive something in return. Scrips come in many different forms, primarily as a form of credit, with the document acknowledging the debt. Scrips also represent a temporary document representing fractional shares resulting from a split or spin-off, or they may indicate currency issued by a private corporation such as frequent flier miles.



Because they are used as currency substitutes, scrips can be useful in the study of money and monetary economy.





Key Takeaways

A scrip is a substitute or alternative to legal tender that entitles the bearer to receive something in return.Scrips come in many different forms, usually as a form of credit.Scrips have been used to compensate or pay employees, and in communities when money was unavailable or in short supply.Some companies may offer dividends in the form of shares rather than cash. These are called scrip dividends. Gift cards, reward points, and coupons are popular examples of scrips.


   Understanding Scrips  

In a broad sense, the term scrip refers to any type of substitutional currency that replaces legal tender. In many instances, a scrip is a form of credit but is generally always some form of documentation of debt.



Scrips were created to pay or compensate employees under the truck system. This system, which began during the Industrial Revolution, meant that employees were paid in kind with commodities, vouchers, tokens, or some other form instead of cash. This was usually to the benefit of the employer, not the employee.



Scrips have also been widely used in localized commerce when traditional or legal currency is unavailable or in short supply. This includes small communities or towns—such as the first coal towns—in remote locations, military bases, ships at sea for long periods of time, and in occupied countries during wartime.






The practice of paying wages in company scrip was abolished by the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938. The same law abolished child labor and set the minimum wage at 25 cents an hour.


   Types of Scrip  

During the American industrial revolution, scrip was a common form of payment in company towns and remote communities where the employer was also the only provider of food and housing. By paying workers in a private currency that could only be used in the company stores, the employer could both extract more wealth from their workers and also prevent them from leaving. The exploitative nature of company scrip was a factor in several strikes and armed rebellions.Although paying wages in scrip was prohibited in 1938, they are still used in today's world. In certain companies, scrips may come in the form of rewards points or coupons. For example, Canadian retailer Canadian Tire issues its own form of currency—Canadian Tire—money that looks like real currency but isn't. Customers receive a percentage of Canadian Tire money back when they make purchases. This "cash" can then be used toward purchases made at retail and gas station purchases.



Other forms for scrip include land scrip, token coins (such as those used on subways), vouchers, IOUs, and tokens and tickets used at arcades or game centers. Even points earned on certain credit cards may be considered scrip.



Companies that are short on cash often pay scrip dividends. When a company offers its shareholders a scrip dividend, it offers them the choice to receive dividends in the form of more shares or in cash.






By receiving a scrip dividend, investors can increase the size of their holdings without paying extra fees or charges.



The most widely visible and most modern form of scrip is used in the retail industry in the form of gift cards or gift certificates. Since it can sometimes be considered improper to give cash as a gift, it can be acceptable to give someone a gift card as a present. Gift cards also allow the user to control how and where the card is spent since they can only be used in specific locations. Gift cards or certificates for certain stores or restaurants further restrict the recipient's spending.


   Special Considerations  

Scrip evolved in the 1980s to include a popular method of fundraising. This fundraising option is specifically popular among bands, athletic groups, schools, and other nonprofit organizations.



Here's how it works. Retailers provide nonprofit groups with gift cards and certificates at a discounted rate. Those organizations can then sell the scrip (the cards) to family, friends, and people in their communities at full face value. The nonprofit keeps the discount from the sale of the card as revenue or as money toward its fundraising goal. For example, a school may try to raise money for a class trip using scrip fundraising. The money collected from the sale of the gift cards (i.e., the discount) would be used to fund the trip.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Scrip  

The primary advantage of using scrip is that the issuing company can limit its cash outflows while encouraging repeat business. For example, a company that issues refunds in store credit makes it more likely for the unhappy customer to return, and also allows them to preserve the positive cash flow from the original purchase.



Likewise, issuing a scrip dividend will allow a company to retain cash flow while still rewarding their shareholders. This extra capital can then be reinvested in the company, without additional borrowing. Shareholders who receive a scrip dividend can increase their holdings for free, without any additional fees. There may be tax benefits to receiving a non-cash dividend.



Conversely, a scrip dividend may raise concerns that the company is experiencing cash-flow issues. In some cases, shareholders may have to sell their additional shares to pay tax on the extra dividends. If the share price rises after a scrip dividend is announced, a company may end up paying more in dividends than they originally planned.




Scrip Pros & Cons

Pros

Shareholders can increase their holdings without having to buy stock.
Companies can save cash and reinvest in their operations.
Scrip dividends allow investors to gain more shares without having to spend money.



Cons

Scrip systems typically work to the advantage of the company issuing the scrip–not the consumers.
Over-reliance on scrip may raise questions about the solvency or ethics of a company.





   Questions & Answers  


What Is Meant by Scrip?
Scrip is a type of alternative or substitute currency that can only be redeemed at a certain company. Rewards points, gift cards, and coupons are all familiar examples of scrip that can be used in place of legal tender.




How Do Scrips Work?
Companies issue scrips to do business while postponing cash payment to a later date. Since scrip can only be redeemed at the issuing company, paying in scrip effectively ensures that the recipient will continue doing business with the company while allowing the issuer to reduce their cash outflows. In some cases, scrips can be used as a cash substitute in remote areas where official currency is in short supply.




What Is Scrip in the Stock Market?
A scrip issue, or bonus issue, is when a company creates new shares and awards them to existing stockholders. This is different from a scrip dividend, where stockholders are given the choice of receiving cash or shares.




What Is Meant by Scrip Dividend?
A scrip dividend is when a company gives its shareholders the option of receiving a dividend in either cash or company stock. Receiving a dividend in stock allows the shareholder to grow their holdings without having to buy the shares on the open market, while also allowing the company to reinvest the extra capital into its operations. There may also be tax advantages to receiving a non-cash dividend.




What Is a Scrip Election?
A scrip election gives shareholders the right to choose, or "elect," to receive a scrip dividend instead of a cash dividend.
What Is Seasonality?  

Seasonality is a characteristic of a time series in which the data experiences regular and predictable changes that recur every calendar year. Any predictable fluctuation or pattern that recurs or repeats over a one-year period is said to be seasonal.



Seasonal effects are different from cyclical effects, as seasonal cycles are observed within one calendar year, while cyclical effects, such as boosted sales due to low unemployment rates, can span time periods shorter or longer than one calendar year.





Key Takeaways

Seasonality refers to predictable changes that occur over a one-year period in a business or economy based on the seasons including calendar or commercial seasons. Seasonality can be used to help analyze stocks and economic trends. Companies can use seasonality to help determine certain business decisions such as inventories and staffing. One example of a seasonal measure is retail sales, which typically sees higher spending during the fourth quarter of the calendar year. 


   Understanding Seasonality  

Seasonality refers to periodic fluctuations in certain business areas and cycles that occur regularly based on a particular season. A season may refer to a calendar season such as summer or winter, or it may refer to a commercial season such as the holiday season.



Companies that understand the seasonality of their businesses can predict and time inventories, staffing, and other decisions to coincide with the expected seasonality of the associated activities, thereby reducing costs and increasing revenue.



It is important to consider the effects of seasonality when analyzing stocks from a fundamental point of view because it can have a big impact on an investor's profits and portfolio. A business that experiences higher sales during certain seasons may appear to make significant gains during peak seasons and significant losses during off-peak seasons. If this is not taken into consideration, an investor may choose to buy or sell securities based on the activity at hand without accounting for the seasonal change that subsequently occurs as part of the company’s seasonal business cycle.



Seasonality is also important to consider when tracking certain economic data. Economic growth can be affected by different seasonal factors including the weather and the holidays. Economists can get a better picture of how an economy is moving when they adjust their analyses based on these factors. For example, roughly two-thirds of U.S. gross domestic product (GDP) is made up of consumer spending—which is a seasonal measure. The more consumers spend, the more the economy grows.



Conversely, when they cut back on their purse strings, the economy will shrink. If this seasonality was not taken into account, economists would not have a clear picture of how the economy is truly moving.






Seasonality also affects industries—called seasonal industries—which typically make most of their money during small, predictable parts of the calendar year.


   Examples of Seasonality  

There are many different instances where seasonality can be observed as it relates to the regular transition throughout times of the year.



For example, if you live in a climate with cold winters and warm summers, your heating costs likely rise in the winter and fall in the summer. You expect the seasonality of your heating costs to recur reasonably every year around the same time.



Similarly, a company that sells sunscreen and tanning products within the United States sees sales jump up in the summer as demand for their products increases. On the other hand, the company will likely see a significant drop in the winter.



Another area affected by seasonality is retail sales. Retail sales measure consumer spending and demand and are reported every month by the U.S. census bureau. Data fluctuates at certain times of the year, primarily during the holiday shopping season. This period falls into the fourth quarter of the year—between October and December. Many retailers experience seasonal retail sales, seeing a big jump in consumer spending around the holiday season.


   Special Considerations  
  Seasonality and Temporary Workers  

Large retailers, including e-retail giant Amazon, may hire temporary workers to respond to higher consumer demand associated with the holiday season. In 2018, the company said it would hire approximately 100,000 employees to help offset the increased activity expected in stores.



Meanwhile, retailer Target said it would hire 120,000 for the same holiday period. Like most retailers, these decisions were made by examining traffic patterns from previous holiday seasons and using that information to predict what may be expected in the coming season. Once the season is over, many temporary employees are no longer needed based on the post-season traffic expectations.


  Adjusting Data for Seasonality  

A lot of data is affected by the time of the year, and adjusting for the seasonality means that more accurate relative comparisons can be drawn between different time periods. Adjusting data for seasonality evens out periodic swings in statistics or movements in supply and demand related to changing seasons. By using a tool known as Seasonally Adjusted Annual Rate (SAAR), seasonal variations in the data can be removed.



For example, homes tend to sell more quickly and at higher prices in the summer than in the winter. As a result, if a person compares summer real estate sales prices to median prices from the previous year, he may get a false impression that prices are rising. However, if he adjusts the initial data based on the season, he can see whether values are truly rising or just momentarily increasing by the warm weather.
What Is a Seasonally Adjusted Annual Rate (SAAR)?  

A seasonally adjusted annual rate (SAAR) is a rate adjustment used for economic or business data, such as sales numbers or employment figures, that attempts to remove seasonal variations in the data. Most data is affected by the time of the year, and adjusting for the seasonality means that more accurate relative comparisons can be drawn between different time periods.





Key Takeaways

A seasonally adjusted annual rate (SAAR) is a rate adjustment used in business to account for changes in data due to seasonal variations.By adjusting data that is affected by seasons, more accurate comparisons can be made between different time periods.Utilizing seasonally adjusted annual rates are useful when comparing business growth, price appreciation, sales, or any data that has to be compared from one time period to another.


   Understanding a Seasonally Adjusted Annual Rate (SAAR)  

A seasonally adjusted annual rate (SAAR) seeks to remove seasonal impacts on a business to gain a deeper understanding of how the core aspects of a business perform throughout the year. For example, the ice cream industry tends to have a large level of seasonality as it sells more ice cream in the summer than in the winter, and by using seasonally adjusted annual sales rates, the sales in the summer can be accurately compared to the sales in the winter. It is often used by analysts in the automobile industry to account for car sales.



Seasonal adjustment is a statistical technique designed to even out periodic swings in statistics or movements in supply and demand related to changing seasons. Seasonal adjustments provide a clearer view of nonseasonal changes in data that would otherwise be overshadowed by the seasonal differences.


   Calculating a Seasonally Adjusted Annual Rate (SAAR)  

To calculate SAAR, take the un-adjusted monthly estimate, divide by its seasonality factor, and multiply by 12.



Analysts start with a full year of data, and then they find the average number for each month or quarter. The ratio between the actual number and the average determines the seasonal factor for that time period.



Imagine a business earns $144,000 over a course of a year and $20,000 in June. Its average monthly revenue is $12,000, making June's seasonality factor as follows:



﻿




$


2


0


,


0


0


0


/


$


1


2


,


0


0


0


=


1


.


6


7



\$20,000/\$12,000=1.67


$20,000/$12,000=1.67﻿



The following year, revenue during June climbs to $30,000. When divided by the seasonality factor, the result is $17,964, and when multiplied by 12, that makes the SAAR $215,568; indicating growth. Alternatively, SAAR can be calculated by taking the unadjusted quarterly estimate, dividing by its seasonality factor, and multiplying by four.


   Seasonally Adjusted Annual Rates (SAARs) and Data Comparisons  

A seasonally adjusted annual rate (SAAR) helps with data comparisons in a number of ways. By adjusting the current month's sales for seasonality, a business can calculate its current SAAR and compare it to the previous year's sales to determine if sales are increasing or decreasing.



Similarly, if a person wants to determine if real estate prices are increasing in their area, they can look at the median prices in the current month or quarter, adjust those numbers for seasonal variations, and convert them into SAARs which can be compared to numbers for the previous years. Without making these adjustments first, the analyst is not comparing apples with apples, and as a result, cannot make clear conclusions.



For example, homes tend to sell more quickly and at higher prices in the summer than in the winter. As a result, if a person compares summer real estate sales prices to median prices from the previous year, they may get a false impression that prices are rising. However, if they adjust the initial data based on the season, they can see whether values are truly rising or just being momentarily increased by the warm weather.


   Seasonally Adjusted Annual Rates (SAARs) vs. Non-Seasonally Adjusted Annual Rates  

While seasonally adjusted (SA) rates try to remove the differences between seasonal variations, non-seasonally adjusted (NSA) rates do not take into account seasonal ebbs and flows. Concerning a set of information, NSA data corresponds to the information's annual rate, while SA data corresponds to its SAAR.
What is SEC Form S-1?  

SEC Form S-1 is the initial registration form for new securities required by the SEC for public companies that are based in the U.S. Any security that meets the criteria must have an S-1 filing before shares can be listed on a national exchange, such as the New York Stock Exchange. Companies usually file SEC Form S-1 in anticipation of their initial public offering (IPO). Form S-1 requires companies to provide information on the planned use of capital proceeds, detail the current business model and competition and provide a brief prospectus of the planned security itself, offering price methodology and any dilution that will occur to other listed securities.



SEC Form S-1 is also known as the registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933. Additionally, the SEC requires the disclosure of any material business dealings between the company and its directors and outside counsel. Investors can view S-1 filings online to perform due diligence on new offerings prior to their issue.



Foreign issuers of securities in the U.S. do not use SEC Form S-1 but instead must submit an SEC Form F-1.





Key Takeaways

SEC Form S-1 is an SEC registration required for U.S. companies that want to be listed on a national exchange.It is basically a registration statement for a company that is usually filed in connection with an initial public offering.Any amendments or changes that have to be made by the issuer are filed under SEC Form S-1/A.The issuer is responsible for any material misrepresentations or omissions.


   How to File SEC Form S-1  

Companies can use the SEC's online EDGAR (the Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval) system to submit forms, including Form S-1, that are required by the SEC. Individuals or companies have to first fill out a Form ID, an electronic application that is used to apply for a CIK (Central Index Key) and to get access codes in order to file on EDGAR. EDGAR Filers Quick Reference Guides provide guidance on all the required steps as well as technical specifications and answers to FAQs.



Form S-1 has two parts. Part I, which is also called the prospectus, is a legal document that requires information on the following: business operations, the use of proceeds, total proceeds, the price per share, a description of management, financial condition, the percentage of the business being sold by individual holders and information on the underwriters.



Part II is not legally required in the prospectus. This part includes recent sales of unregistered securities, exhibits and financial statement schedules.



The issuer will have liability if there are material misrepresentations or omissions.


   Amending SEC Form S-1  

The form is sometimes amended as material information changes or general market conditions cause a delay in the offering. In this case, the issuer needs to file Form S-1/A. The Securities Exchange Act of 1933, often referred to as the Truth in Securities law, requires that these registration forms be filed to disclose important information upon registration of a company's securities. This helps the SEC achieve the Act's objectives: requiring investors to receive significant information regarding securities offered and prohibit fraud in the sale of the offered securities.



An abbreviated registration form is the S-3, which is for companies that don't have the same ongoing reporting requirements.






Investors look to the information a company supplies in its SEC Form S-1 filing to make a decision about whether or not they want to invest in its stock during an initial public offering.


   Example of an SEC Form S-1 Filing  

Eventbrite, Inc., a global ticketing and event tech platform, completed its IPO in September 2018, pricing 10 million shares at $23. There was an initial S-1 form filed in August, followed by five S-1/A filings. The initial filing included a proposed maximum dollar amount the company intended on raising, the underwriters, its strategies for growth and an explanation of the dual classes of stock. It also described Eventbrite's business and historical financial information.
What is the SEC Yield?  

The SEC yield is a standard yield calculation developed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that allows for fairer comparisons of bond funds. It is based on the most recent 30-day period covered by the fund's filings with the SEC. The yield figure reflects the dividends and interest earned during the period after the deduction of the fund's expenses. It is also referred to as the "standardized yield."


   Understanding the SEC Yield  

The SEC yield is used to compare bond funds because it captures the effective rate of interest an investor may receive in the future. It is widely considered a good way to compare mutual funds or exchange-traded funds (ETFs) because this yield measure is generally very consistent from month to month. The resulting yield calculation shows investors what they would earn in yield over the course of a 12-month period if the fund continued earning the same rate for the rest of the year. It is mandatory for funds to calculate this yield. This yield differs from the Distribution Yield, which is typically displayed on a bond's website.


   Calculation of the SEC Yield  

Most funds calculate a 30-day SEC yield on the last day of each month, though U.S. money market funds calculate and report a seven-day SEC yield. The standardized formula for the 30-day SEC yield consists of four variables:



a = interest and dividends received over the last 30-day period



b = accrued expenses over the last 30-day period, excluding reimbursements



c = the average number of shares outstanding, on a daily basis, which were entitled to receive distributions



d = the maximum price per share on the day of the calculation, the last day of the period



The formula of the annualized 30-day SEC yield is:



2 x (((a - b) / (c x d) + 1) ^ 6 - 1)





Key Takeaways

The SEC yield is a standard yield calculation developed for fair comparison of bonds.The yield calculation shows investors what they would earn in yield over the course of a 12-month period if the fund continued earning the same rate for the rest of the year.


   Example of SEC Yield  

Assume Investment Fund X earned $12,500 in dividends and $3,000 in interest. The fund also recorded $6,000 worth of expense, of which $2,000 was reimbursed. The fund has 150,000 shares entitled to receive distributions, and on the last day of the period, the day the yield is being calculated, the highest price the shares reached was $75. In this scenario, the variables equal:



a = $12,500 + $,3000 = $15,500



b = $6,000 - $2,000 = $4,000



c = 150,000



d = $75



Once these numbers are plugged into the formula, it looks like this:



30-day yield = 2 x ((($15,500 - $4,000) / (150,000 x $75) + 1) ^ 6 - 1), or 2 x (0.00615) = 1.23%
What is Second World?  

The outdated term "second world" included countries that were once controlled by the Soviet Union. Second world countries were centrally planned economies and one-party states. Notably, the use of the term "second world" to refer to Soviet countries largely fell out of use in the early 1990s, shortly after the end of the Cold War.



But the term second world has also been used to cover countries that are more stable and more developed than offensive term "third-world" countries but less-stable and less-developed than first world countries. Examples of second-world countries by this definition include almost all of Latin and South America, Turkey, Thailand, South Africa, and many others. Investors sometimes refer to second world countries that appear to be headed toward first world status as "emerging markets" instead.



Some countries could be considered second world by either of these two definitions.


   Understanding Second World  

By the first definition, some examples of second world countries include: Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Russia, and China, among others.



With regard to the second definition, according to geo-strategist and London School of Economics doctorate Parag Khanna, approximately 100 countries exist that are neither first world (OECD) nor third world (least-developed, or LDC) countries. Khanna emphasizes that within the same country there can be a coexistence of first and second; second and third; or first and third world characteristics. A country's major metropolitan areas may exhibit first world characteristics, for example, while its rural areas exhibit third-world characteristics. China displays extraordinary wealth in Beijing and Shanghai, yet many of its non-urban regions are still deemed developing.





Key Takeaways

The term "second world" was initially used to refer to the Soviet Union and countries of the communist bloc.It has subsequently been revised to refer to nations that fall between first and third world countries in terms of their development status and economic indicators.The list includes countries from Latin and South America, Turkey, Thailand, and South Africa.


   Key Criteria in Defining World Segregations  

Criteria, such as unemployment rates, rates of infant mortality and life expectancy, standards of living, and distribution of income can be used to determine a country's status.



Even within the United States, some argue that although the majority of the nation is fully developed, certain places are stagnant in their growth – even regressing to a status closer to a developing nation definition. MIT Economist Peter Temin argues that the United States has even regressed to a developing nation status. Temin believes that close to 80% of the entire U.S. population is part of a low-wage sector, laden with debts and facing fewer possibilities for growth.
What Is the Secondary Market?  

The secondary market is where investors buy and sell securities. Trades take place on the secondary market between other investors and traders rather than from the companies that issue the securities. People typically associate the secondary market with the stock market. National exchanges, such as the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and the NASDAQ, are secondary markets. The secondary market is where securities are traded after they are put up for sale on the primary market.





Key Takeaways

The secondary market provides investors and traders with a place to trade securities after they are put up for sale on the primary market.Investors trade securities on the secondary market with one another rather than with the issuing entity.Through massive series of independent yet interconnected trades, the secondary market drives the price of securities toward their actual value.The secondary market provides liquidity to the financial system and allows smaller traders to participate.The stock market and over-the-counter markets are types of secondary markets.












Investopedia / Candra Huff


   How the Secondary Market Works  

As noted above, securities are bought and sold by investors among one another on the secondary market after they are first sold on the primary market. As such, most people call the secondary market the stock market.



Transactions that occur on the secondary market are termed secondary simply because they are one step removed from the transaction that originally created the securities in question. For example, a financial institution writes a mortgage for a consumer, creating the mortgage security. The bank can then sell it to Fannie Mae on the secondary market in a secondary transaction.



Though stocks are one of the most commonly traded securities, there are also other types of secondary markets. For example, investment banks and corporate and individual investors buy and sell mutual funds and bonds on secondary markets. Entities such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac also purchase mortgages on a secondary market.



Secondary markets are important for several reasons. First, they provide liquidity to investors. Having a centralized location allows trades to take place with a large number of traders while ensuring that the value of securities isn't lost as investors buy and sell securities. It also gives small traders a chance to participate in the market.






   Types of Secondary Markets  
  Stock Market  

The stock market is made up of centralized exchanges that allow buyers and sellers to come together to trade stocks and other assets. There is no contact that takes place between each party—physical or otherwise. Most trading takes place electronically. Traders must abide by the rules and regulations set forth by the appropriate regulatory bodies, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in the United States.



Examples of stock markets (or secondary markets) include the NYSE and Nasdaq in the U.S., as well as the London Stock Exchange (LSE), the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, the Bombay Stock Exchange, and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange.


  Over-the-Counter (OTC) Market  

The over-the-counter (OTC) market involves the trading of stocks, bonds, and other financial assets. But rather than take place over a centralized exchange, trades occur through broker-dealer networks. As such, these assets aren't traded on an exchange. Stocks on the OTC market are normally those of smaller companies that don't meet listing requirements.



OTC markets include the:



OTCQX: This is the top-tier marketplace. The stocks of companies on the OTCQX must trade over $5.
OTCQB: This is the mid-tier market for OTC securities. It is called the Venture Market and has a high number of developing companies available for trade.
Pink Sheets: The Pink Sheets allow investors to trade securities of companies that can't meet the listing requirements for major exchanges. Most of the stocks listed are penny stocks.






The number of secondary markets that exist always increases as new financial products become available. Several secondary markets may exist in the case of assets such as mortgages. Bundles of mortgages are often repackaged into securities such as Ginnie Mae pools and resold to investors.


   Secondary Market vs. Primary Market  

It is important to understand the distinction between the secondary market and the primary market. When a company issues stock or bonds for the first time and sells those securities directly to investors, that transaction occurs on the primary market.



Some of the most common and well-publicized primary market transactions are initial public offerings (IPOs). During an IPO, a primary market transaction occurs between the purchasing investor and the investment bank underwriting the IPO. Any proceeds from the sale of shares of stock on the primary market go to the company that issued the stock, after accounting for the bank's administrative fees.



If these initial investors later decide to sell their stake in the company, they can do so on the secondary market. Any transactions on the secondary market occur between investors, and the proceeds of each sale go to the selling investor, not to the company that issued the stock or to the underwriting bank.



Primary market prices are often set beforehand, while prices in the secondary market are determined by the basic forces of supply and demand. If the majority of investors believe a stock will increase in value and rush to buy it, the stock's price will typically rise. If a company loses favor with investors or fails to post sufficient earnings, its stock price declines as demand for that security dwindles.




Are the Secondary and Stock Market the Same?
Most people consider the stock market to be the secondary market. This is where securities are traded after they are issued for the first time on the primary market. For instance, Company X would conduct its initial public offering on the primary market. Once complete, its shares are available to trade on the secondary market. Major stock exchanges like the NYSE and Nasdaq are secondary markets.




Who Are the Major Players in the Secondary Market?
The key participants in the secondary market are the broker-dealers who facilitate trades, investors who initiate buy and sell activity, as well as any intermediaries, such as banks, financial institutions, and advisory service companies.




Why Is the Secondary Market Important?
The secondary market is where securities are traded after they go through the primary market. It is a key part of the financial system, providing liquidity to the market. It also allows traders with a centralized location where they can make trades. Investors who deal with large and small volumes of trades have the ability to participate in the market.


   The Bottom Line  

When you buy and sell stocks, bonds, or other securities, you're participating in the secondary market, which most of us consider to be the stock market. This market is an important part of the financial system because it gives investors like you a place to conduct your financial transactions. It also provides much-needed liquidity to the market. But don't confuse it with the primary market. This is where companies and other entities go to offer the first-round of securities before they become available to the general public.
What Is a Section 1035 Exchange?  

A 1035 exchange is a provision in the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) code allowing for a tax-free transfer of an existing annuity contract, life insurance policy, long-term care product, or endowment for another one of like kind. To qualify for a Section 1035 exchange, the contract or policy owner must also meet certain other requirements.





Key Takeaways

Section 1035 of the tax code allows for tax-free exchanges of certain insurance products.Life insurance policyholders can use a section 1035 exchange to trade an old policy in for a new one with better features.The 2006 Pension Protection Act modified the law to allow exchanges into long-term care products.A life insurance policy can be exchanged for an annuity, yet an annuity cannot be exchanged for a life insurance policy under the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) 1035.The cost basis of the former policy becomes the basis of the new one for full exchanges.



Both full and partial 1035 exchanges are permitted, although some rules will vary by company. Typically, 1035 exchanges between products within the same company are not reportable for tax purposes as long as the IRS criteria for the exchange are satisfied.


   How a Section 1035 Exchange Works  

A 1035 exchange must generally occur between products of like kind, such as life insurance for life insurance or a non-qualified annuity for a non-qualified annuity. Life insurance can be exchanged for a non-qualified annuity, but a non-qualified annuity cannot be exchanged for a life insurance policy. The 2006 Pension Protection Act (PPA) also modified IRC section 1035 to include exchanges from life insurance policies and non-qualified annuities into traditional and hybrid (life insurance or annuity) qualified long-term care (LTC) products.






The new product for which a modified endowment contract (MEC) was exchanged will also be a MEC. The 1035 exchange does not change that status.



Under a 1035 exchange, the contract or policy owner cannot take constructive receipt of the funds and then use them to buy a new policy. The money must be transferred directly. To further qualify, the annuitant or policyholder must remain the same. For example, a 1035 exchange from an annuity owned by Joe Sample cannot be exchanged into an annuity owned by Jane Sample or into a joint annuity owned by Joe and Jane Sample.



Tax treatment differs for partial exchanges in that a portion of the cost basis is allocated to the new product rather than all of it.


   Benefits of a 1035 Exchange  

The primary benefit of a section 1035 exchange is that it lets the contract or policy owner trade one product for another with no tax consequence. That way, they can exchange outdated and underperforming products for newer products with more attractive features, such as better investment options and less restrictive provisions.



Additionally, a section 1035 exchange lets policyholders preserve their original basis, even if there are no gains to be deferred. For example, Joe Sample invested a total of $100,000 (cost basis) in a non-qualified annuity and subsequently took no loans or withdrawals. But because of poor investment performance, its value dropped to $75,000. Dissatisfied, Joe decided to transfer his funds into another annuity with another company. In this scenario, the original contract's cost basis of $100,000 becomes the new contract's basis, although just $75,000 was transferred.



Despite the tax benefits, 1035 exchanges do not absolve contract owners of their obligations under the original contract. For example, insurance companies typically don't waive surrender charges for 1035 exchanges. However, if the owner exchanges one product for another within the same company, the fees may be waived.


   What to Consider Before a 1035 Exchange  

Before requesting a 1035 exchange, it is important to compare the features of each policy or contract subject to the exchange and conduct a cost-benefit analysis to determine which is best. Consider whether the new policy aligns with your investment goals; in terms of retirement products, such as annuities, consider how well the new product delivers upon your retirement goals.



Pay attention to administrative fees and transaction charges, such as withdrawal or surrender charges. If your existing product is no longer subject to withdrawal charges yet the new one is, consider how this will affect when you can access your money and how much it will cost to do so. Administrative, mortality and risk, and investment fees should also be reviewed.



If the product delivers upon your goals and objectives, make sure that the new financial institution is sound. Review its financial ratings, financial statements, and other metrics to see how well it manages its assets, liabilities, and shareholder obligations if any.




What Is Not Allowed in a 1035 Exchange?
Transfers between qualified accounts, such as IRAs and 401(k)s, are not characterized as 1035 exchanges. The IRS allows exchanges of like-kind insurance policies, such as deferred annuities and life insurance policies, without triggering a taxable event. Such permissible transactions include insurance policies exchanged into annuities, annuities into annuities, and endowments into endowments. The IRS disallows the following under a 1035 exchange:Transfer of funds from the account holder to the institution (must be directly transferred from the financial institution)Exchanges between like-kind accounts where the annuitant or owner on the existing account is not the same on the new accountAnnuity to life insuranceEndowment to life insuranceAnnuity to endowment




Do I Have to Report a 1035 Exchange on My Tax Return?
A 1035 exchange must be reported on a tax return. If the funds are transferred from institution to institution, the transferring company will issue a 1099-R form, recording the amount transferred and a distribution code of "6", which denotes a 1035 exchange. Although the transaction is reportable, it is not taxable. If the exchange occurs in-house, the financial institution may not issue a 1099-R.




What Is the Difference Between a Replacement and a 1035 Exchange?
A 1035 exchange can be characterized as a replacement; however, not every replacement qualifies as a 1035 exchange. For example, when an annuity or life insurance policy is exchanged into another annuity, it is a replacement and 1035 exchange. An exchange of an annuity contract for a life insurance policy can be characterized as a replacement but does not qualify as a 1035 exchange. Such transactions are taxable, with gains and losses recognized.


   The Bottom Line  

The Internal Revenue Code section 1035 allows for the non-taxable exchange of certain insurance products. Allowable exchanges include a life insurance policy to an annuity, an annuity to an annuity, an endowment to an endowment, and a life insurance policy to a life insurance policy. The cost basis of the old policy or contract becomes the basis of the new one, despite losses that have eroded the balance. Policyholders should exercise caution when exchanging one product for another, paying careful attention to forgone benefits, charges, fees, and alignment with goals and objectives.
What Is Section 1231 Gain?  

Section 1231 property is a type of property, defined by section 1231 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. Section 1231 property is real or depreciable business property held for more than one year.



A section 1231 gain from the sale of a property is taxed at the lower capital gains tax rate versus the rate for ordinary income. If the sold property was held for less than one year, the 1231 gain does not apply.



Examples of section 1231 properties include buildings, machinery, land, timber, and other natural resources, unharvested crops, cattle, livestock, and leaseholds that are at least one year old. However, section 1231 property does not include poultry and certain other animals, patents, inventions, and inventory; such as goods held for sale to customers.





Key Takeaways

Section 1231 property is a type of property, defined by section 1231 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.Section 1231 property is real or depreciable business property held for more than one year.A section 1231 gain from the sale of a property is taxed at the lower capital gains tax rate versus the rate for ordinary income. 












Investopedia / Ellen Lindner


   Understanding Section 1231 Gain  

Broadly speaking, if gains on property fitting Section 1231's definition are more than the adjusted basis and amount of depreciation, the income is counted as capital gains, and as a result, it is taxed at a lower rate than ordinary income.



However, when losses are recorded on section 1231 property whereby the loss is classified as an ordinary loss, it's 100% deductible against income.



Ordinarily, if income was qualified as capital gains, so would any losses, which can only be deductible up to $3,000 for the tax year, and any losses in excess of that figure would be arrived at in the following year. The section 1231 law makes it so taxpayers and business owners get the best of both worlds.



The IRS handles the taxation of a section 1231 gain as a "regular" capital gain when there is income, but not when there is a loss. Capital gains tax is a tax on the profit when you sell something that’s increased in value. It’s the gain you make that’s taxed, not the amount of money you receive.


   Types of Section 1231 Transactions  

The following are considered 1231 transactions under IRS regulations: 



Casualties and thefts – If you have held a property for more than one year and it is adversely affected by theft or casualty (loss or damage from an unexpected or rare event).Condemnations – If a property was held for more than a year and held as a capital asset relating to trade or business.Sale or exchange of real property or personal property that is depreciable – If the property was held for more than a year and was used in a trade or in a business (usually generating revenue via rent or royalties). Leaseholds either sold or exchanged – If held for a year and used in trade or business.Cattle and horses sold or exchanged – If held for two years and used for dairy, draft, breeding, or sporting purposes.Unharvested crops sold or exchanged – If held for one year and then sold, exchanged, or converted involuntarily and then not reacquired through any means. Disposal or cutting of timber, coal, or iron ore – If treated as a sale.



Section 1231 property is related to section 1245 property and section 1250 property. Section 1231 defines the tax treatment of the gains and losses of property fitting the definitions of sections 1245 and 1250 on form 4797.






   Section 1231 vs. Section 1245 Property  

Section 1245 property cannot include buildings or structural components unless the structure is designed specifically to handle the stresses and demands of a specific use, and can’t be used for any other use, in which case it can be considered closely related to the property it houses.



Section 1245 property is any asset that is depreciable or subject to amortization and meets any of the following descriptions in Publication 544 (2022), Sales and Other Dispositions of Assets:



Personal property - Generally defined as property other than real estate
Other tangible property - This would include machinery or a facility that plays a key role in the production, extraction, or furnishing of services, as well as certain research facilities, or a facility for the bulk storage of fungible commodities. This does not include buildings that are included as storage for equipment but would conceivably include a facility that stored goods temporarily before they were packaged and moved.
Single-purpose structures built for the sole purpose of agricultural or horticultural use. This does not include a barn but would include silos or grain storage bins.
Facilities used to store and distribute petroleum or primary products of petroleum except for buildings and those buildings' structural components.


  Tax Treatment on Section 1245 Property Gains  

If the sale of section 1245 property is less than the depreciation or amortization on the property, or if the gains on the disposition of the property are less than the original cost, gains are recorded as normal income and are taxed as such. If the gain on the disposition of the section 1245 property is greater than that original cost, then those gains are taxed as capital gains.



If the section 1245 property was acquired through a like-kind exchange, the amounts you claimed on the property you used in the exchange are included in the depreciation or amortization amount, as would be the amounts a previous owner of section 1245 property claimed if the adjusted basis was used as a reference to your own.


   Section 1231 vs. Section 1250 Property  

The IRS defines section 1250 property as all real property, such as land and buildings, that are subject to the allowance for depreciation, as well as a leasehold of land or section 1250 property.


  Tax Treatment on Section 1250 Property Gains  

Much like with section 1245 property, gains on section 1250 property qualify as ordinary income if they are less than or equal to the amount the property has depreciated, and if the gains exceed the depreciation then the income is treated as capital gains. During the year of the sale, depreciation recapture is taxable as ordinary income if the sale of the property is executed in an installment method. 






While section 1231 was introduced in the 1954 IRS Code, the content of the tax code referring to gains received upon deposition of depreciable and real property was introduced in 1939 in section 117(j).


   Example of Section 1231 Property  

Let's say a building is bought at $2 million and then has another $2 million put into it in the form of refurbishment (updating A/C units, windows, and a new roof) with an amortization rate of 50% over 10 years.



So, let's say then that 10 years after the building had $2 million put into it, it is sold at a price of $6 million. The recorded gains on that sale would be $4 million, not $2 because the cost of refurbishment would be capitalized on the books. That $4 million sale would be taxed as capital gains because the property was sold for more than the amount that it had depreciated.




Where Does Section 1231 Gain Get Reported?
IRS Form 4797, Sales of Business Property, is used to report the section 1231 gains on a sold property.




What Is the Difference Between 1231 and 1250 Property?
Section 1231 applies to all depreciable business assets owned for more than one year, while section 1250 (and also 1245) provides guidance on how different asset categories are taxed when sold at a gain or loss. All property used in a trade or business is considered section 1231 property and, for taxation purposes, either section 1245 or 1250 applies, depending on the property’s characteristics.




What Is the Difference Between 1231 Gain and Capital Gain?
When it comes to taxation there is no difference under certain circumstances. If gains on property fitting Section 1231's definition are more than the adjusted basis and amount of depreciation, the income is counted as capital gains, and as a result, it is taxed at a lower rate than ordinary income.


   The Bottom Line  

Section 1231 gains are gains from depreciable property and real property used in a business and held for more than one year. Such gains are considered "tax-friendly" as they have traditionally enjoyed a favored status in the tax code. Net Section 1231 gains for the taxable year are treated as long-term capital gains, but a net Section 1231 loss is considered an ordinary loss.
What Is Section 1245?  

Section 1245 is codified in the United States Code (USC) at Title 26-Internal Revenue Code (IRC), Subtitle A-Income Taxes, Chapter 1-Normal Taxes and Surtaxes, Subchapter P-Capital Gains and Losses, Part IV-Special Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses, Section 1245-Gain from dispositions of certain depreciable property. This (lengthy!) taxonomy usefully informs us that Section 1245 covers the applicable tax rate for gains from the sale or transfer of depreciable and amortizable property. Let’s dig deeper to learn what kind of property is covered and what tax rate applies to it.





Key Takeaways

Section 1245 is a way for the IRS to recapture allowable or allowed depreciation or amortization the taxpayer has taken on 1231 property.This recapture occurs at the time a business sells certain tangible or intangible personal property at a gain.Section 1231 allows a business that sells a property to apply a higher ordinary income rate on losses and a lower capital gains rate on gains.However, if a business has already gotten favorable tax treatment by taking depreciation deductions on their property and then sells that property for a profit, Section 1245 recaptures depreciation at ordinary income tax rates.


   Understanding Section 1245  

Section 1245 recaptures depreciation or amortization allowed or allowable on tangible and intangible personal property at the time a business sells such property at a gain. Section 1245 taxes the gain at ordinary income rates to the extent of its allowable or allowed depreciation or amortization.


   Section 1245 Property  

The IRS defines Section 1245 property as the following:



Section 1245 property includes any property that is or has been subject to an allowance for depreciation or amortization and that is any of the following types of property.



Personal property (either tangible or intangible).
Other tangible property (except buildings and their structural components) used as any of the following:



An integral part of manufacturing, production, or extraction, or of furnishing transportation, communications, electricity, gas, water, or sewage disposal services.A research facility in any of the activities listed above.A facility in any of these activities for the bulk storage of fungible commodities.


   Section 1245 Recapture Feature  

Section 1245 is a mechanism to recapture at ordinary income tax rates allowable or allowed depreciation or amortization taken on section 1231 property. Allowable or allowed means that the amount of depreciation or amortization recaptured is the greater of that taken or that could have been taken but was not.



Going forward, this article will simplify references to depreciation and amortization to just depreciation with the reminder that section 1245 applies to depreciated and amortized personal property.


   Section 1245 Background  

Section 1245 defines section 1245 property by telling us what it is not. This definition of exclusion confuses even tax experts. Perhaps section 1245 property will be easier to identify if we instead focus on the reason why Congress enacted section 1245. The answer boils down to the adjustment of the property’s basis by depreciation and the character of gain or loss on the property’s disposition. 



Conceptually, a lower tax rate on gain means less tax payable and a higher tax rate on loss means a larger offset of taxable income and less tax payable. For this reason, tax planning strategies seek lower capital gains rates for gains and higher ordinary income rates for losses.



Congress enacted IRC Section 1231 to favor businesses by allowing them to apply a lower capital gains rate on gains and a higher ordinary income rate on losses recognized from the sale of their property. However, many businesses had already gotten favorable tax treatment by taking depreciation deductions on these properties. So, Congress enacted Section 1245 to recapture depreciation at ordinary income rates on properties sold at a gain.



The wording of Section 1245 implies that it covers a new or different class of property—section 1245 property. But, in reality, section 1245 property is merely section 1231 property that has been depreciated. Section 1245 property is section 1245 property only as long as it has unrecaptured depreciation. Once its depreciation is fully recaptured, it becomes section 1231 property.


   Tax Picture of a Sale of Section 1245 Property  

With this understanding, let’s look at the tax picture of a sale of section 1245 property. If section 1245 property is sold at a loss, it converts to section 1231 property for tax purposes, and the loss is ordinary (subject to netting and look-back). If section 1245 property is sold at a gain, it remains section 1245 property and, to the extent of depreciation, the gain is taxed at ordinary income rates. Once depreciation has been recaptured, it converts to section 1231 property, and any remaining gain is taxed at capital gains rates.


   Example of a Sale of Section 1245 Property  

Here is an example that may help clear the fog. A business owns a $100 widget and takes $75 of depreciation. The widget’s adjusted tax basis is its $100 cost minus $75 of depreciation, or $25. The business sells the widget for $150. The gain is the $150 sale price minus the $25 adjusted tax basis, or $125. Of that $125, $75 is section 1245 gain taxed at ordinary income rates, and $50 is section 1231 gain taxed at capital gains rates.



If the business sells the $100 widget for $20, you have a loss of $20 sale price minus $25 adjusted tax basis, or $5. Since there is a $0 gain, Section 1245 does not apply, and the $5 loss is a section 1231 loss that is ordinary.
What Is Section 1250?  

Section 1250 of the United States Internal Revenue Code is a rule establishing that the IRS will tax a gain from the sale of depreciated real property as ordinary income if the accumulated depreciation exceeds the depreciation calculated with the straight-line method.



Section 1250 bases the amount of tax due on the property type—on whether it is residential or nonresidential real estate—while also factoring in how many months the filer owned the property in question.





Key Takeaways

Section 1250 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code establishes that the IRS will tax a gain from the sale of depreciated real property as ordinary income, if the accumulated depreciation exceeds the depreciation calculated with the straight-line method.Section 1250 is chiefly applicable when a company depreciates its real estate using the accelerated depreciation method.


   The Basics of Section 1250  

Section 1250 addresses the taxing of gains from the sale of depreciable real property, such as commercial buildings, warehouses, barns, rental properties, and their structural components at an ordinary tax rate. However, tangible and intangible personal properties and land acreage do not fall under this tax regulation.



Section 1250 is chiefly applicable when a company depreciates its real estate using the accelerated depreciation method, resulting in larger deductions in the early life of a real asset, compared to the straight-line method. Section 1250 states that if a real property sells for a purchase price that produces a taxable gain, and the owner depreciates the property using the accelerated depreciation method, the IRS taxes the difference between the actual depreciation and the straight-line depreciation as ordinary income.



Because the IRS mandates owners to depreciate all post-1986 real estate using the straight-line method, the treatment of gains as ordinary income under Section 1250 is a relatively rare occurrence. If an owner disposes of the property as a gift transferred at death, sells it as part of a like-kind exchange, or disposes of it through other methods, there are no possible taxable gains.


   An Example of an Application of Section 1250  

To observe a real-world example of Section 1250 in action, imagine an investor buys an $800,000 real estate property with a 40-year useful life. Five years later, employing the accelerated depreciation method, this investor claims accumulated depreciation expenses in the amount of $120,000, resulting in a cost basis of $680,000.



Let us further assume that this investor unloads the property for $750,000, resulting in a $70,000 total taxable gain. Due to the fact that the accumulated straight-line depreciation amounts to $100,000 (the $800,000 initial price, divided by 40 years, multiplied by five years of use), the Internal Revenue Service must then tax $20,000 of the actual depreciation exceeding straight-line depreciation, as ordinary income. The IRS would subsequently tax the $50,000 that remains of the total gain, at applicable capital gains tax rates.



Under Section 1250, the recapture of gain as ordinary income is restricted to the actual gain recorded on a real property sale. In our example, if the investor unloaded the real property for $690,000, thereby producing a gain of $10,000, the Internal Revenue Service would only categorize $10,000 as ordinary income, not the additional $20,000.
What Is a Sector?  

A sector is an area of the economy in which businesses share the same or related business activity, product, or service. Sectors represent a large grouping of companies with similar business activities, such as the extraction of natural resources and agriculture.



Dividing an economy into different sectors helps economists analyze the economic activity within those sectors. As a result, sector analysis provides an indication as to whether an economy is expanding or if areas of an economy are experiencing contraction.



In the financial markets, economic sectors are broken down even further into sub-sectors called investment sectors. Investment sectors represent a grouping of companies with similar business activities. Examples of investment sectors include technology, energy, and financial services.



This article explores the main types of economic sectors and the business activity associated with them, and how investment sectors play a role in determining a nation's economic conditions.





Key Takeaways

Sectors are used to categorize the economic activity of consumers and businesses into groupings based on the type of business activity.Primary sector companies are directly engaged in activities utilizing natural resources, such as mining and agriculture.Secondary sector companies produce goods derived from the products within the primary sector and include manufacturing.Tertiary and quaternary sectors represent the services and knowledge-based economy and include retail and information technology.In the financial markets, investment sectors are sub-sectors that aid in comparing the financial performance of similar businesses.












Investopedia / Jake Shi


   Understanding Sectors  

Sectors are used by economists to classify economic activity by grouping companies that are engaged in similar business activities. For example, some sectors are engaged in activities that involve the earliest stages of the production cycle, such as extracting raw materials. Other sectors involve the manufacturing of goods using those raw materials. Still, other companies are engaged in service activities.



Developing and emerging economies tend to have only one or two sectors that define most business activities. For example, some nations rely heavily on the extraction and sale of crude oil, which can be turned into gasoline and sold to consumers within developed economies. On the other hand, developed nations tend to have a more diverse representation of all sectors.



Although there is some debate about the true number of sectors that represent business activity in an economy, typically, sectors are broken out into four main categories. However, please bear in mind that there can also be sub-sectors within each of the four major sectors listed below.


  Primary Sector  

The primary sector involves companies that participate in the extraction and harvesting of natural products from the Earth. Primary sector companies are typically engaged in economic activity that utilizes the Earth's natural resources, which are sold to consumers or commercial businesses.



Companies involved in the processing and packaging of raw materials are also categorized within the primary sector.



Primary sector business activities include the following:



Mining and quarryingFishingAgricultureForestryHunting



Emerging economies tend to have a higher amount of economic activity and employment concentrated within the primary sector versus more advanced economies. On the other hand, developed nations tend to utilize machinery and technology in their primary sector activities, meaning the primary sector doesn't represent a large portion of the population's employment.


  Secondary Sector  

The secondary sector consists of processing, manufacturing, and construction companies. The secondary sector produces goods from the natural products within the primary sector. The secondary sector includes the following business activities:



Automobile productionTextileChemical engineeringAerospace spaceShipbuildingEnergy utilities


  Tertiary Sector  

The tertiary sector is comprised of companies that provide services, such as retailers, entertainment firms, and financial organizations.



The tertiary sector provides services to businesses and consumers by selling the goods that are manufactured by companies in the secondary sector. The types of services provided by the tertiary sector include:



Retail sales
Transportation and distribution
Restaurants
Tourism
Insurance and banking
Healthcare services
Legal services


  Quaternary Sector  

The quaternary sector includes companies engaged in intellectual activities and pursuits. The quaternary sector typically includes intellectual services such as technological advancement and innovation. Research and development that leads to improvements to processes, such as manufacturing, would fall under this sector.



The companies and firms within the quaternary sector had been traditionally part of the tertiary sector. However, with the growth of the knowledge-based economy and technological advancements, a separate sector was created.



Firms within the quaternary sector use information and technology to innovate and improve processes and services, leading to enhancements in economic development. Firms within the quaternary sector might be engaged in the following business activities:



Research and developmentInformation technology (IT)EducationConsulting services


   Stock and Investment Sectors  

In the financial markets, the economic sectors are broken down into sub-sectors to help investors compare companies with similar business activities. While economic sectors represent a broad representation of the economy, investment sectors further define and categorize companies.



Investment sectors are important because they help measure how well an economy is performing based on the financial performance of the corporations within that sector. The list below does not represent an exhaustive list, but here are some examples of investment sectors:



Technology, such as electronics and software developers
Financial services, such as banks and insurance companies
Real Estate, such as residential and commercial real estate
Industrials, such as manufacturing, machinery, and construction
Energy, which includes the production and supply of energy
Utilities, such as water, electric, and gas companies
Consumer discretionary, which represents non-essential goods
Consumer staples, which represents essential goods such as food and beverage companies


   Sectors and the Economy  

Investors use sectors to group stocks and other investments into categories that share unique characteristics. Investment sectors can provide insight as to how an economy is performing and which areas of the economy are performing better than others.


  Sectors in an Expanding Economy  

If there is a large increase in the purchase of raw materials, such as copper or crude oil, it may be an indication that the economy is expanding. In other words, in an expanding economy, businesses and consumers tend to use more raw materials and energy since consumer and business spending is on the rise.



Industrials would also perform well in an expansionary economy since increased economic growth typically leads to an increase in manufacturing and construction. Similarly, real estate, such as commercial real estate and housing, might also experience an increase in sales and development.



If consumer confidence is high, consumers might increase their purchases of non-essential goods, leading to a rise in consumer discretionary spending. As a result, companies within sectors that benefit from an expanding economy would likely experience increased revenue.


  Sectors in a Slowing Economy  

Conversely, if an economy is performing poorly or there are expectations that economic growth will slow in the coming months, companies that sell consumer staples often experience an increase in revenue. The reason for this correlation between a slowing economy and consumer staples stocks is that consumers will likely continue to purchase essential products, such as paper towels and toilet paper, even in periods of negative or slowing growth.



Also, investment sectors may represent a specific risk profile that may or may not attract investors. For example, in a slowing economy, investment in the utilities sector tends to increase since those stocks are considered safe-haven investments.






Understanding economic sectors and the activity driving growth within those sectors can help investors determine which sub-sectors and their stocks will be impacted.


   Sector Investing  

It is common for investment analysts and other investment professionals to specialize in certain sectors. For example, at large research firms, analysts may cover just one sector, such as technology stocks.



Additionally, investment funds often specialize in a particular economic sector, a practice known as sector investing.



For those who want to invest in a particular sector, there are exchange-traded funds (ETFs) called sector ETFs. These funds contain a basket of stocks or securities within a particular industry or sector. For example, the energy sector, particularly the oil and gas industry, is a large industry that attracts specialized investment funds.


   Sector vs. Industry  

While a sector represents a large segment of an economy that includes many companies, an industry represents a more narrow focus of the companies within a particular sector. Thus, industries are the result of breaking down a sector into more defined and specific groupings. On the other hand, sectors can represent a large grouping of companies that have similar business activities.



Sectors may have companies that don't necessarily compete with each other, while industries tend to represent corporations that are in direct competition.



For example, companies within the oil and gas industry, such as Exxon and Chevron, are competitors. Those same companies also fall under the primary sector since they both engage in the extraction of natural resources. However, Exxon or Chevron would not likely compete with companies involved in agriculture despite being classified within the primary sector.




What Are the 4 Main Economic Sectors?
The four main sectors of an economy are:Primary sector: Represents companies that are involved in extracting natural resources and agriculture.Secondary sector: Companies involved in manufacturing, construction, and processing producing goods that use the resources obtained from companies within the primary sector.Tertiary sector: Companies that provide services such as entertainment, financial, and retailers.Quaternary sector: Involves knowledge-based activities such as information technology, research, and development, as well as consulting services and education.




What Is the Largest Sector of the Economy?
The tertiary sector is the largest sector in the United States since the service industry represents the largest share of economic activity.




What Is Meant by Sector Rotation?
In the financial markets, there are sub-sectors of the economic sectors that contain groupings of companies engaged in similar business activities such as financial services or technology. Sector rotation is the process of shifting investments from one sector of an economy to another.




Are Sector and Industry the Same?
Although the terms sector and industry are often used interchangeably, there are distinct differences between them. A sector represents a large grouping of companies within an economy that are engaged in similar business activities. On the other hand, an industry represents a more specific grouping of companies within a particular sector.For example, oil and gas companies are categorized within the primary sector since they extract natural resources. Companies that engage in agriculture also fall within the primary sector. However, oil and gas companies are grouped within their own industry, separated from companies within the agriculture industry.


   The Bottom Line  

Sectors are used to categorize the economic activity of consumers and businesses into groupings based on the type of business activity. Each sector represents a different stage of economic activity as it relates to how closely tied or not that activity is to the extraction of natural resources.



For example, primary sector companies are directly engaged in activities utilizing natural resources, such as mining and agriculture. On the other end of the spectrum, the tertiary and quaternary sectors, representing the services and knowledge-based economy, are engaged in activity that is not directly tied to the Earth's resources.



Investors also use sectors to group different types of companies to help gauge whether those companies are performing well or not. Sectors are important since they help investors and economists understand the various levels of economic activity within an economy.
What Is a Sector Breakdown?  

A sector breakdown is the mix of sectors within a fund or portfolio, typically expressed as a portfolio percentage. Sector designations can vary depending on the fund’s investment criteria and overall objective.





Key Takeaways

The sector breakdown of a portfolio shows how much asset weights are allocated to what industry sectors.Sectors typically are considered to be broad classifications such as manufacturing, financial, or technology. Within each sector, numerous sub-sectors and industries can be further delineated.A well-diversified portfolio should not have too many investments concentrated in a single sector or group of related sectors.






   Understanding Sector Breakdown  

A sector breakdown is provided for fund analysis and can help an investor to observe the investment allocations of a fund. Sector investing can be a significant factor in influencing investments in the fund. A fund may target a specific sector, seek to diversify among sectors, or generally have sector variance that results from investing from a broad universe. A sector fund would have an allocation of 100% to a specified sector.



Some funds may have restraints on sector investments. Therefore fund analysis is used by fund managers to exclude specific investments. This often occurs with environmental, social, and governance (ESG) focused funds. These funds seek to exclude industries or companies that their investors consider undesirable for various reasons. This may include an industry grouping such as tobacco producers in one fund, or oil exploration companies in another fund.



Fund companies regularly provide sector reporting in their marketing materials. Sector breakdowns provide a representation of the sector allocations of the fund’s assets, often on a monthly or quarterly basis. Some funds may even report sector breakdowns daily on the fund’s website.


   GICS Sectors  

Sectors are typically considered to be a broad classification. Within each sector, numerous sub-sectors and industries can also be further delineated. The Global Industry Classification Standard also known as GICS is the primary financial industry standard for defining sector classifications.



The Global Industry Classification Standard was developed by index providers MSCI and the S&P Dow Jones. Its hierarchy begins with 11 sectors which can be further delineated to 24 industry groups, 69 industries, and 158 sub-industries. It follows a coding system that assigns a code from each grouping to every company publicly traded in the market. The GICS coding system is integrated throughout the industry allowing for detailed reporting and stock screening through financial technology.



The 11 broad GICS sectors commonly used for sector breakdown reporting include the following:



Energy
Materials
Industrials
Consumer Discretionary
Consumer Staples
Health Care
Financials
Information Technology
Telecommunication Services
Utilities
Real Estate


   Diversification and Sectors  

A diversified stock portfolio will hold stocks across most, if not all, GICS sectors. Diversification across stock sectors helps to mitigate idiosyncratic or unsystematic risks caused by factors affecting specific industries or companies within an industry.



Sector indexes can also be used by investors seeking to invest in the growth prospects of a single sector. Investment companies offer passive index funds that seek to replicate each of the eleven GICS sectors. The Vanguard Information Technology Index Fund is one example of a passively managed mutual fund that seeks to replicate the holdings of the MSCI U.S. Investable Market Information Technology Index. The strategy is also available to investors through an exchange-traded fund, the Vanguard Information Technology ETF.




What Is a Good Sector Breakdown for a Portfolio?
A well-diversified portfolio should have access to as many sectors as possible, and not concentrate too many funds into any single sector or related sectors. You may also want to apply the five percent rule with sector funds. For example, if you wanted to diversify within specialty sectors, such as biotech, commercial real estate, or gold miners, you simply keep your allocation to 5% or less for each.




What Are the Major Industry Sectors?
These range from utilities to consumer staples to technology. The 11 GICS-recognized industry sectors are listed above. The GICS subdivides this into 24 industry groups such as automobiles, banks, and apparel companies.




What Is the Sector Breakdown of the S&P 500 Index?
As of Jan. 31, 2022, the sector breakdown of the S&P 500 is:Information technology - 28.7%Healthcare - 13.1%Consumer Discretionary - 12%Financials - 11.3%Communication Services - 10%Industrials - 7.8%Consumer Staples - 6.1%Energy - 3.4%Real Estate - 2.7%Materials - 2.5%Utilities - 2.5%
What Is Secular?  

In finance, secular is a descriptive word used to refer to market activities that occur over the long term.



Secular can also point to specific stocks or stock sectors unaffected by short-term trends. Secular trends are not seasonal or cyclical. Instead, they remain consistent over time.





Key Takeaways

Secular refers to market activities that unfold over long time horizons, or that aren't influenced by short-term factors.A secular trend or market is one that is likely to continue moving in the same general direction for the foreseeable future.Secular trends are contrasted with cyclical trends, which are affected by the boom and bust swings of the market. Secular stocks include technology firms such as Netflix and eCommerce leaders such as Amazon.The secular movement of a long-term trend can be neutral (flat), positive, or negative in its direction.


   Understanding Secular  

Investors and analysts expect secular trends and secular stocks to remain moving in the same direction over the long term, maintaining a static trajectory regardless of current economic conditions. When applying the term to the stock market, a secular market is the market's overarching trend or direction for a long period of time. Further, secular trends may be upward or downward in direction.



It is important for investors to identify secular trends in markets, not just short-term trends, to develop a long-term investment strategy. Examples of secular trends include an aging population, which tends to have different spending and savings habits than a younger population, the expansion of a particular technology such as the internet, the clean-energy movement, and the growth in impact investing.


   Examples of Secular  

Within the stock market, experts consider technology companies such as Netflix and Google parent Alphabet secular because short-term economic trends have a minimal lasting impact on their long-term performance.



David Kostin of Goldman Sachs, as reported by CNBC in March of 2018, came up with a list of the best secular growth stocks prime for investment. The short-list includes internet companies Amazon and Google's Alphabet as well as Domino's Pizza and Summit Materials. Goldman chose these companies because they grew sales by over 10% over the three previous years and have robust and forward-looking potential.



Other frequently-cited examples include companies like Apple and Amazon, whose businesses do not rely heavily on cyclical factors. Deere, Tesla, and Devon Energy are also considered secular stocks. Solar stocks may also be considered secular, in that demand will remain consistent in times of economic hardship.


   How to Identify Secular Trends  

A stock is secular when the associated company earnings remain constant regardless of other trends occurring within the market. Companies are often secular when the primary business relates to consumer staples or products that most households consistently use.



Consumer staples can include personal care items, such as shampoo and toilet paper, various food-item producers, and certain pharmaceutical companies.






A stock is considered a secular play if its revenues are likely to remain consistent regardless of other trends in the market. For example, consumer staples are likely to be strong secular plays, because they will remain in demand even in times of recession.


   Secular vs. Cyclical  

Secular stocks are very different from cyclical stocks, which are securities whose price is impacted by the movement in the overall economy due to consumer buying power. These are companies whose business model is most likely to suffer during an economic downturn.



Cyclical stocks tend to be those whose profits depend on discretionary spending, which tends to decline during recessions. For example, Starbucks and Nike are commonly considered examples of cyclical stocks: because they are considered relatively expensive and non-essential, many consumers will reduce spending on these products when money gets tight.


   Special Considerations  

Secular movements can proceed in either a positive or negative direction. Therefore, the term does not always mean growth. Investors may be secular bears or secular bulls.



Also, secular can refer to subtle or dramatic movements as the term does not identify the degree of change. The defining characteristics are the long-term nature of the movement and the lack of impact of short-term trends on associated activity.






While experts consider them to be long term, secular trends are not necessarily permanent.



In his book, Stocks for the Long Run (McGraw-Hill Education, 5th edition, 2014), Jeremy Siegel, an economics Ph.D., and finance professor at the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, argues that equity securities–particularly U.S. equities–are secular and will likely outperform the other major asset classes secularly or over the long term.



In support of his argument, Siegel points to the 130 years between 1871 and 2001. During any rolling 30-year period within this timeframe, stocks outperformed all other asset classes, especially bonds and T-bills. Most experts agree that a 30-year period constitutes a secular trend.




What Are Secular Trends in Healthcare?
In healthcare, a secular trend refers to patterns in disease activity over a long time, usually many years. Secular trends may be affected by factors such as population immunity, but they are not affected by periodic factors or seasonal trends.




What Does Secular Headwinds Mean?
In finance, a headwind refers to forces that act to slow or limit growth. A "secular headwind" refers to long-term factors that act as a dampener to market growth during the upswing of the business cycle.




What Does Secular Tailwinds Mean?
In finance, a tailwind refers to forces that help accelerate market growth. A secular tailwind refers to long-term economic trends that help feed market growth, in contrast to cyclical factors that limit growth.


   The Bottom Line  

In investing, secular refers to business trends with a low correlation to the business cycle. A secular stock is one that is likely to preserve value, even during a recession or economic downturn. In contrast, a cyclical stock or trend is one that is likely to follow with the fluctuations in the wider economy.
What Is the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI)?  

The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) is the most important regulator of securities markets in India. SEBI is the counterpart of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in the U.S. Its stated objective is “to protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.”





Key Takeaways

The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) is the leading regulator securities markets in India, analogous to the Securities and Exchange Commission in the U.S.SEBI has wide-ranging regulatory, investigative, and enforcement powers, including the ability to impose fines on violators.Some criticize SEBI for that they say is a lack of transparency and direct accountability to the public for an institution with such enormous powers.


   Creation of the SEBI  

The Securities and Exchange Board of India was established in its current incarnation in April 1992, following the passage of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act by the nation's parliament. It supplanted the Controller of Capital Issues, which had regulated the securities markets under the Capital Issues (Control) Act of 1947, passed just months before India gained independence from the British.



The SEBI headquarters is located in the business district at the Bandra-Kurla Complex in Mumbai. It also has regional offices in the cities of New Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai, and Ahmedabad, and more than a dozen local offices in cities including Bangalore, Jaipur, Guwahati, Patna, Kochi, and Chandigarh.


   SEBI's Charter  

According to its charter, SEBI is expected to be responsible for three main groups:



The issuers of securitiesInvestorsMarket intermediaries



The body drafts regulations and statutes in a regulatory capacity, passes rulings and orders in a judicial capacity, conducts investigations, and imposes penalties in an enforcement capacity. As an example, the Board banned short selling between 2001 and 2008.



SEBI is run by a board of directors, including a chair who is elected by the parliament, two officers from the Ministry of Finance, one member from the Reserve Bank of India, and five members who are also elected by the parliament.


   Criticism of SEBI  

Critics say SEBI lacks transparency and is insulated from direct public accountability. The only mechanisms to check its power are a Securities Appellate Tribunal, which consists of a panel of three judges, and the Supreme Court of India. Both bodies have occasionally censured SEBI.



Still, SEBI has been aggressive at times in doling out punishment and in issuing strong reforms. It also established the Financial Stability Board in 2009, in response to the global financial crisis, giving the board a broader mandate than its predecessor to promote financial stability.
What Is the Securities Act of 1933?  

The Securities Act of 1933 was created and passed into law to protect investors after the stock market crash of 1929. The legislation had two main goals: to ensure more transparency in financial statements so investors could make informed decisions about investments; and to establish laws against misrepresentation and fraudulent activities in the securities markets.





Key Takeaways

The Securities Act of 1933 was created and passed into law to protect investors after the stock market crash of 1929.The Securities Act of 1933 was designed to create transparency in the financial statements of corporations.The Securities Act also established laws against misrepresentation and fraudulent activities in the securities markets.The Securities Act is enforced by the Securities and Exchange Commission, created by the Exchange Act of 1934.Some offerings may be exempt from the Securities Act if they are not sold to the wider public. 


   Understanding the Securities Act of 1933  

The Securities Act of 1933 was the first major legislation regarding the sale of securities. Prior to this legislation, the sales of securities were primarily governed by state laws. The legislation addressed the need for better disclosure by requiring companies to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Registration ensures that companies provide the SEC and potential investors with all relevant information by means of a prospectus and registration statement.



The act—also known as the "Truth in Securities" law, the 1933 Act, and the Federal Securities Act—requires that investors receive financial information from securities being offered for public sale. This means that prior to going public, companies have to submit information that is readily available to investors.



Today, the required prospectus has to be made available on the SEC website. A prospectus must include the following information:



A description of the company’s properties and businessA description of the security being offeredInformation about executive managementFinancial statements that have been certified by independent accountants





$2.1 billion

The proposed SEC budget for fiscal year 2023.


   Securities Exempt from SEC Registration  

Some securities offerings are exempted from the registration requirement of the act. These include:



Intrastate offeringsOfferings of limited sizeSecurities issued by municipal, state, and federal governmentsPrivate offerings to a limited number of persons or institutions



The other main goal of the Securities Act of 1933 was to prohibit deceit and misrepresentations. The act aimed to eliminate fraud that happens during the sales of securities.






President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed the Securities Act of 1933 into law as part of his famous New Deal.


   History of the Securities Act of 1933  

The Securities Act of 1933 was the first federal legislation used to regulate the stock market. The act took power away from the states and put it into the hands of the federal government. The act also created a uniform set of rules to protect investors against fraud. It was signed into law by President Franklin D. Roosevelt and is considered part of the New Deal passed by Roosevelt.



The Securities Act of 1933 is governed by the Securities and Exchange Commission, which was created a year later by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Several amendments to the act have been passed to update rules numerous times over the years, with the latest enacted in 2018.






Every registration statement and prospectus for a public securities offering in the United States can be found on EDGAR, an electronic database by the Securities and Exchange Commission.




What Was the Objective of the 1933 Securities Act?
The main goal of the Securities Act of 1933 was to introduce national disclosure requirements for companies selling stock or other securities. It requires companies selling securities to the public to reveal key information about their property, financial health, and executives. Prior to that law, securities were only subject to state regulations, and brokers could promise extravagant returns while disclosing little relevant information.




How Is the Head of the Securities and Exchange Commission Chosen?
The Securities and Exchange Commission is headed by five commissioners, who serve five-year terms and are appointed by the president with the consent of the Senate. The president also designates one of those commissioners to be the chairman of the body.




How Did the Public Benefit From the Federal Securities Act?
The main benefit of the securities act was to introduce disclosure requirements for new securities issues. Prior to its passage, companies selling stocks or bonds could promise large profits without revealing key information about their companies.


   The Bottom Line  

The Securities Act of 1933 was the first federal law to regulate the securities industry. It requires companies that sell stocks or bonds to the public to disclose certain information, such as their assets, financial health, executives, and a description of the security being sold. It is now one of many laws that control securities offerings in the United States.
What Is the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)?  

The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is an independent federal government regulatory agency responsible for protecting investors, maintaining fair and orderly functioning of the securities markets, and facilitating capital formation. It was created by Congress in 1934 as the first federal regulator of the securities markets. The SEC promotes full public disclosure, protects investors against fraudulent and manipulative practices in the market, and monitors corporate takeover actions in the United States. It also approves registration statements for bookrunners among underwriting firms.



Generally, issues of securities offered in interstate commerce, through the mail or on the Internet, must be registered with the SEC before they can be sold to investors. Financial services firms—such as broker-dealers, advisory firms and asset managers, as well as their professional representatives—must also register with the SEC to conduct business. An example: they would be responsible for approving any formal bitcoin exchange.





Key Takeaways

The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is a U.S. government oversight agency responsible for regulating the securities markets and protecting investors.The SEC was established by the passage of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, largely in response to the stock market crash of 1929 that led to the Great Depression.The SEC can itself bring civil actions against lawbreakers, and also works with the Justice Department on criminal cases.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   How the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Works  

The SEC's primary function is to oversee organizations and individuals in the securities markets, including securities exchanges, brokerage firms, dealers, investment advisors, and investment funds. Through established securities rules and regulations, the SEC promotes disclosure and sharing of market-related information, fair dealing, and protection against fraud. It provides investors with access to registration statements, periodic financial reports, and other securities forms through its electronic data-gathering, analysis, and retrieval database, known as EDGAR.






The Securities And Exchange Commission (SEC) was created in 1934 to help restore investor confidence in the wake of the 1929 stock market crash.



The SEC is headed by five commissioners who are appointed by the president, one of whom is designated as chair. Each commissioner's term lasts five years, but they may serve for an additional 18 months until a replacement is found. The current SEC chair is Gary Gensler, who took office on April 17, 2021. To promote nonpartisanship, the law requires that no more than three of the five commissioners come from the same political party.



The SEC consists of five divisions and 23 offices. Their goals are to interpret and take enforcement actions on securities laws, issue new rules, provide oversight of securities institutions, and coordinate regulation among different levels of government. The five divisions and their respective roles are:



Division of Corporate Finance: Ensures investors are provided with material information (that is, information relevant to a company's financial prospects or stock price) in order to make informed investment decisions.Division of Enforcement: In charge of enforcing SEC regulations by investigating cases and prosecuting civil suits and administrative proceedings.Division of Investment Management: Regulates investment companies, variable insurance products, and federally registered investment advisors.Division of Economic and Risk Analysis: Integrates economics and data analytics into the core mission of the SEC.Division of Trading and Markets: Establishes and maintains standards for fair, orderly, and efficient markets.



The SEC is allowed to bring only civil actions, either in federal court or before an administrative judge. Criminal cases fall under the jurisdiction of law enforcement agencies within the Department of Justice; however, the SEC often works closely with such agencies to provide evidence and assist with court proceedings.



In civil suits, the SEC seeks two main sanctions:



Injunctions, which are orders that prohibit future violations. A person or company that ignores an injunction is subject to fines or imprisonment for contempt.
Civil money penalties and the disgorgement of illegal profits. In certain cases, the SEC may also seek a court order barring or suspending individuals from acting as corporate officers or directors. The SEC may also bring a variety of administrative proceedings, which are heard by internal officers and the commission. Common proceedings include cease and desist orders, revoking or suspending registration, and imposing bars or suspensions of employment.



The SEC also serves as the first level of appeal for actions sought by the securities industry's self-regulatory organizations, such as FINRA or the New York Stock Exchange.



Among all the SEC's offices, the Office of the Whistleblower stands out as one of the most potent means of securities law enforcement. Created as a result of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, the SEC's whistleblower program rewards eligible individuals for sharing original information that leads to successful law enforcement actions with monetary sanctions in excess of $1 million. The individuals can receive 10% to 30% of the total sanctions' proceeds.


   History of the SEC  

When the U.S. stock market crashed in October 1929, securities issued by numerous companies became worthless. Because many had previously provided false or misleading information, public faith in the integrity of the securities markets plunged. To restore confidence, Congress passed the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which created the SEC. The SEC's primary tasks were to ensure that companies made truthful statements about their businesses and that brokers, dealers, and exchanges treated investors in an honest and fair manner.



In the years since additional laws have aided the SEC in its mission: 



Trust Indenture Act of 1939
Investment Company Act of 1940
Investment Advisers Act of 1940
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010
Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act of 2012



Today the SEC brings numerous civil enforcement actions against firms and individuals that violate securities laws every year. It is involved in every major case of financial misconduct, either directly or in conjunction with the Justice Department. Typical offenses prosecuted by the SEC include accounting fraud, the dissemination of misleading or false information, and insider trading. 



After the Great Recession of 2008, the SEC was instrumental in prosecuting the financial institutions that caused the crisis and returning billions of dollars to investors. In total, it charged 204 entities or individuals and collected close to $4 billion in penalties, disgorgement, and other monetary relief. Goldman Sachs, for example, paid $550 million, the largest penalty ever for a Wall Street firm and the second-largest in SEC history, exceeded only by the $750 million paid by WorldCom.



Still, many observers have criticized the SEC for not doing enough to help prosecute the brokers and senior managers who were involved in the crisis, almost all of whom were never found guilty of significant wrongdoing. So far, only one Wall Street executive has been jailed for crimes related to the crisis. The rest either settled for a monetary penalty or accepted administrative punishments.




How Does the SEC Make New Rules?
A new SEC rule starts with a concept release, which leads to a proposal. Both a concept release and subsequent proposal are published for public review and comment. The SEC considers the public’s input on the proposal as it determines its next steps. The SEC will then convene to consider input from the public as well as industry or other subject-matter experts are considered. They then vote to adopt the rule.




Is the SEC the Same as FINRA?
No. The SEC is a government organization that sets rules and regulations regarding the issuance, marketing, and trading of securities. The SEC is also charged with protecting investors. FINRA (formerly NASD) is a non-profit self-regulatory industry organization that oversees broker-dealers and issues licenses to securities professionals.




Who Is the SEC Accountable to?
The SEC is an independent federal agency that is headed by a bipartisan five-member commission, comprised of the Chairman and four Commissioners who are appointed by the President and confirmed by the U.S. Senate. The SEC is accountable to Congress as it operates under the authority of federal laws including the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Investment Company Act of 1940, the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley Act), among others.
What Is the Securities Exchange Act of 1934?  

The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (SEA) was created to govern securities transactions on the secondary market, after issue. Its goal was to ensure greater financial transparency and accuracy and less fraud or manipulation.



The SEA authorized the formation of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the regulatory arm of the SEA. The SEC has the power to oversee securities—stocks, bonds, and over-the-counter securities—as well as markets and the conduct of financial professionals, including brokers, dealers, and investment advisors. It also monitors the financial reports that publicly traded companies are required to disclose.





Key Takeaways

The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 was enacted to govern securities transactions on the secondary market.All companies listed on a stock exchange must follow the requirements outlined in the SEA of 1934.The purpose of the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is to ensure an environment of fairness and investor confidence.The SEA created the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which regulates securities, markets, financial disclosures, and the conduct of financial professionals.


   Understanding the Securities Exchange Act of 1934  

The SEA regulates trading on the secondary market and major stock exchanges, as well as participants in these markets. Participants can include exchanges, brokers, transfer agents, and clearing agencies. The secondary market is where trading happens after assets are initially issued by a company. These assets can include stocks, bonds, stock options, and stock futures.



All companies listed on stock exchanges must follow the reporting requirements outlined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Primary requirements include:



Registration of any securities listed on stock exchanges
Company financial disclosure
Proxy solicitations
Margin and audit requirements



The purpose of these requirements is to ensure transparency, fairness, and an environment of investor confidence.






If the SEC brings action against a company for violation of disclosure or other requirements, it can choose to file a case in federal court or settle the matter outside of trial.


   History of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934  

The SEA of 1934 was enacted by Franklin D. Roosevelt's administration. It was a response to the widely held belief that irresponsible financial practices were one of the chief causes of the 1929 stock market crash. The SEA of 1934 followed the Securities Act of 1933, which required corporations to make public certain financial information, including stock sales and distribution.



Other regulatory measures put forth by the Roosevelt administration include the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, the Trust Indenture Act of 1934, the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, and the Investment Company Act of 1940. They all came in the wake of a financial environment in which the commerce of securities was subject to little regulation, and controlling interests of corporations were amassed by relatively few investors without public knowledge.


   Creation and Role of the SEC  

The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is the regulatory arm of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The SEA granted the SEC broad authority to regulate all aspects of the securities industry. It manages the disclosure and sharing of market-related information, which is designed to promote fair dealing for investors and protect against securities fraud.



The SEC is led by five commissioners, who are appointed by the president, and has five divisions:



Division of Corporation Finance: Responsible for ensuring that investors have access to any information that is material to a company's financial prospects or stock price
Division of Trading and Markets: Responsible for establishing and maintaining standards for orderly, fair, and efficient markets, as well as regulating major players in the securities market
Division of Investment Management: Administers the Investment Company Act of 1940 and Investment Advisers Act of 1940 to regulate investment companies and federally registered investment advisors
Division of Economic and Risk Analysis: Supports all aspects of the SEC's mission by integrating financial economics and data analytics
Division of Enforcement: Investigations possible violations of federal securities laws, prosecutes civil suits, and conducts administrative proceedings



The SEC has the power and responsibility to lead investigations into potential violations of the SEA, such as insider trading, selling unregistered stocks, stealing customers' funds, manipulating market prices, disclosing false financial information, and breaching broker-customer integrity.



The SEC manages the Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval database, known as EDGAR. This database allows investors to access financial reports, registration statements, and other securities forms.


   Reporting Requirements  

Under the SEA, companies with publicly held securities, as well as companies of a certain size, are known as reporting companies. This means they must make regular financial disclosures that provide investors with pertinent information about the company. These disclosures include:



Annual reports, using Form 10-K
Quarterly reports, using Form 10-Q
Major events that are relevant to investors and shareholders, using Form 8-K



These disclosures provide investors with access to the information they need to make informed investing decisions.






In addition to companies with publicly traded securities, those with more than $10 million in assets and whose shares are held by more than 500 owners must also meet reporting requirements.


   Areas of Security Law Covered  

In addition to regulating secondary securities markets, the SEA covers several other areas of securities law.


  Insider Trading  

Fraudulent insider trading is when a person trades a security based on important information that isn't available to the general public. This is prohibited by the 1934 SEA,


  Antifraud  

Pools are ways to manipulate stock prices. When the price of a security reaches a high point, pool members coordinate to unload their shares, allowing them to make a profit while prices drop dramatically. The SEA prohibits this kind of manipulation, which was common when it was created.


  Tender Offers  

The SEA requires that anyone who wishes to make a tender offer, or a direct purchase, of 5% or more of a company's shares must disclose certain material information. This allows shareholders to make an informed decision about these types of offers, which are usually made to gain control of a company.


  Proxy Solicitation  

Proxy materials are used to gain shareholder votes, either during annual or special meetings, To ensure that shareholders have all relevant information before they register their votes, these materials must be filed with the SEC before any vote solicitation begins.




What Did the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Do?
The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 regulates secondary financial markets to ensure a transparent and fair environment for investors. It prohibits fraudulent activities, such as insider trading, and ensures that publicly traded companies must disclose important information to current and potential shareholders.




What Are the Two Main Purposes of the Securities Exchange Act?
The SEA has two primary goals. It is intended to prevent fraud in the securities market and to create more transparency in companies' financial disclosures so that investors have the information they need to make informed decisions.




What Is the Difference Between the 1933 and 1934 Securities Acts?
The Securities Exchange Act of 1933 regulates newly issued securities, such as those being sold through an initial public offering. The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 regulates securities that are already being actively traded on the secondary market.


   The Bottom Line  

The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 regulates securities transactions on the secondary market. It creates reporting and financial disclosure requirements for companies listed on the stock exchange, as well as prohibiting fraudulent activity such as insider trading. The SEA is designed to protect investors and ensure they have access to important information when making investment decisions.



The Securities and Exchange Commission is the regulatory arm of the SEA. It is responsible for making financial and other disclosures accessible to the public, as well as enforcing reporting requirements and investigating violations of the SEA.
What Is Securities Lending?  

Securities lending is the practice of loaning shares of stock, commodities, derivative contracts, or other securities to other investors or firms. Securities lending requires the borrower to put up collateral, whether cash, other securities, or a letter of credit.



When a security is loaned, the title and the ownership are also transferred to the borrower. A loan fee, or borrow fee, is charged by a brokerage to a client for borrowing shares, along with any interest due related to the loan. The loan fee and interest are charged pursuant to a Securities Lending Agreement that must be completed before the stock is borrowed by a client. Holders of securities that are loaned receive a rebate from their brokerage.



Securities lending provides liquidity to markets, can generate additional interest income for long-term holders of securities, and allows for short-selling.





Key Takeaways

Securities lending involves a loan of securities by one party to another, often facilitated by a brokerage firm.Securities lending is important for several trading activities, such as short selling, hedging, arbitrage, and other strategies.Loan fees and interest rates are charged by brokerages for borrowing securities, which can vary depending on the difficulty of borrowing the securities in question. The lender of securities receives a rebate.












Investopedia / Ryan Oakley


   Understanding Securities Lending  

Securities lending is generally facilitated between brokers or dealers and not directly by individual investors. To finalize the transaction, a securities lending agreement or loan agreement must be completed. This sets forth the terms of the loan including duration, interest rates, lender’s fees, and the nature of the collateral.



According to current regulations, borrowers should provide at least 100 percent of the security's value as collateral. Collateral for securities also depends on its volatility. The minimum initial collateral on securities loans is at least 102 percent of the market value of the lent securities plus, for debt securities, any accrued interest.﻿﻿﻿﻿ In addition, the fees and interest charged on a securities loan will often depend on how difficult it is to locate those securities desired for borrow. The more scarce the supply of available securities, the higher the cost.



Typical securities lending requires clearing brokers, who facilitate the transaction between the borrowing and lending parties. The borrower pays a fee to the lender for the shares and this fee is split between the lending party and the clearing agent.






   Benefits of Securities Lending  

Securities lending is important to short selling, in which an investor borrows securities to immediately sell them. The borrower hopes to profit by selling the security and buying it back later at a lower price. Since ownership has been transferred temporarily to the borrower, the borrower is liable to pay any dividends out to the lender.



In these transactions, the lender is compensated in the form of agreed-upon fees and also has the security returned at the end of the transaction. This allows the lender to enhance its returns through the receipt of these fees. The borrower benefits through the possibility of drawing profits by shorting the securities.



Securities lending is also involved in hedging, arbitrage, and fails-driven borrowing. In all of these scenarios, the benefit to the securities lender is either to earn a small return on securities currently held in its portfolio or to possibly meet cash-funding needs.


   Understanding Short Selling  

A short sale involves the sale and buyback of borrowed securities. The goal is to sell the securities at a higher price, and then buy them back at a lower price. These transactions occur when the securities borrower believes the price of the securities is about to fall, allowing him to generate a profit based on the difference in the selling and buying prices. Regardless of the amount of profit, if any, the borrower earns from the short sale, the agreed-upon fees to the lending brokerage are due once the agreement period has ended.


  Rights and Dividends  

When a security is transferred as part of the lending agreement, all rights are transferred to the borrower. This includes voting rights, the right to dividends, and the rights to any other distributions. Often, the borrower sends payments equal to the dividends and other returns back to the lender.


   Example of Securities Lending  

Suppose an investor believes that the price of a stock will fall from its current price of $100 to $75 in the near future. The stock is not very volatile and generally trades in defined ranges. In order to profit from this thesis, the investor borrows 50 shares of the company from a securities firm and sells them for $5,000 (50 shares x $100 current price). 



Assuming the share price drops to $75, the investor will then purchase 50 shares for $3,750 (50 shares x $75 price) and return them to the securities firm. In this case, the profit on this short-sale transaction is $1,250 ($5,000 - $3,750). However, short-sales do not always work out as planned. If the investor has miscalculated and the company's shares end up increasing in price rather than decreasing, the investor will have to purchase the stock back at a higher price than the price at which they sold it and will incur a loss on this transaction.
What Is Securitization?  

Securitization pools assets and repackages them into interest-bearing securities. An issuer designs a marketable financial instrument by merging financial assets, commonly mortgage loans or consumer or commercial debt. Investors that purchase these securities receive the principal and interest payments of the underlying assets.





Key Takeaways

Securitization pools or groups debt into portfolios.Issuers create marketable financial instruments by merging various financial assets into tranches.Securitized instruments provide investors with income from interest and principal.Mortgage-backed securities are backed by home loans issued to consumers. Asset-backed securities are backed by auto loans, mobile home loans, credit card loans, and student loans.












Investopedia / Xiaojie Liu


   How Securitization Works  

In securitization, the company or the originator that holds the assets determines which assets to remove from its balance sheets. A bank might do this with mortgages and personal loans it no longer wants to service.



This gathered group of assets is now considered a reference portfolio. The originator then sells the portfolio to an issuer who creates tradable securities with a stake in the assets in the portfolio. Investors buy the new securities for a specified rate of return and effectively take the position of the lender.



Securitization allows the original lender or creditor to remove assets from its balance sheets to underwrite additional loans. Investors profit as they earn a rate of return based on the associated principal and interest payments made on the underlying loans and obligations by the debtors or borrowers.






Securitization frees up capital for originators and promotes liquidity in the marketplace.


   Tranches  

The new securitized financial instrument may be divided into different sections called tranches. The tranches consist of individual assets grouped by factors such as loan type, maturity date, interest rate, and remaining principal. Each tranche carries different degrees of risk and offers different yields.



Mortgage-backed securities (MBS) or asset-backed securities (ABS) are examples of securitization and can be divided into tranches. Asset-backed securities (ABS) are bonds backed by financial assets, such as auto loans, mobile home loans, credit card loans, and student loans. After combining debt into one portfolio, the issuer can divide the pool into smaller pieces based on the inherent risk of default. These smaller portions are sold to investors, each packaged as a type of bond.






   Advantages and Disadvantages of Securitization  

Securitization creates liquidity by allowing retail investors to purchase shares in instruments that would be unavailable to them. An MBS investor can buy portions of mortgages and receive regular returns from interest and principal payments.



Unlike other investment vehicles, many loan-based securities are backed by collateral. Additionally, as the originator moves debt into the securitized portfolio, it reduces the liability on its balance sheet, allowing it to underwrite additional loans.



Although the securities may be backed by tangible assets, there is a risk of default. Additionally, early repayment will reduce the returns the investor receives on the underlying notes. There may also be a lack of transparency about the underlying assets. Misrepresented mortgage-backed securities played a toxic and precipitating role in the financial crisis of 2007 to 2008.





Pros

Turns illiquid assets into liquid ones
Frees up capital for the originator
Provides income for investors
Small investors can participate



Cons

Investor assumes creditor role
Risk of default on underlying loans
Lack of transparency regarding assets
Early repayment damages investor's returns





   Example of Securitization  

Fidelity offers mortgage-backed securities that provide investors with a monthly distribution of principal and interest payments made by homeowners. These investments may be backed or issued by:



Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA): The U.S. government backs bonds guaranteed by Ginnie Mae. GNMA does not purchase, package, or sell mortgages but does guarantee their principal and interest payments.
Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA): Fannie Mae purchases mortgages from lenders, then packages them into bonds and resells them to investors. These bonds are guaranteed solely by Fannie Mae and are not direct obligations of the U.S. government. FNMA products carry credit risk.
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC): Freddie Mac purchases mortgages from lenders, then packages them into bonds and resells them to investors. These bonds are guaranteed solely by Freddie Mac and are not direct obligations of the U.S. government. FHLMC products carry credit risk.




Which Agencies Regulate Securitization?
Companies that engage in securities or investment activities are regulated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (FINRA).




How Are Investors Paid by Investing in Mortgage Based Securities?
Two types of MBS included pass-throughs and collateralized mortgage obligations (CMO).Pass-throughs are structured as trusts in which mortgage payments are collected and passed to investors with stated maturities of 5, 15, or 30 years. CMOs consist of multiple pools of securities known as tranches with varying credit ratings that determine the rates that are returned to investors.




What Is the Difference Between an MBS and an ABS?
Mortgage-backed securities are bonds backed by home loans issued to consumers. Asset-backed securities are bonds backed by auto loans, mobile home loans, credit card loans, and student loans.


   The Bottom Line  

Securitization pools or groups debt into investable portfolios to make marketable financial instruments. Investors can profit from the interest and principal paid on the underlying assets. Both mortgage-backed securities and asset-backed securities are created through securitization and include mortgages, consumer, and commercial debt.
What Is a Security?  

The term "security" refers to a fungible, negotiable financial instrument that holds some type of monetary value. A security can represent ownership in a corporation in the form of stock, a creditor relationship with a governmental body or a corporation represented by owning that entity's bond; or rights to ownership as represented by an option.





Key Takeaways

Securities are fungible and tradable financial instruments used to raise capital in public and private markets.There are primarily three types of securities: equity—which provides ownership rights to holders; debt—essentially loans repaid with periodic payments; and hybrids—which combine aspects of debt and equity.Public sales of securities are regulated by the SEC. Self-regulatory organizations such as NASD, NFA, and FINRA also play an important role in regulating derivative securities.












Investopedia / Daniel Fishel


   Understanding Securities  

The Securities Act of 1933 is the first federal legislation to regulate the U.S. stock market, an authority that was previously regulated at the state level. Under the law, anyone who wishes to sell investment contracts to the public must publish certain information regarding the proposed offering, the company making the offering, and the principal figures of that company.



These requirements are intended to protect the investing public from deceptive or misleading marketing practices. The company and its leading figures are strictly liable for any inaccuracy in its financial statements, whether intentional or not. Later legislation created the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which is responsible for regulations and enforcement.



Although the term "securities" is commonly associated with stocks, bonds, and similar instruments, the U.S. Supreme Court gives the term a much broader interpretation. In the case of Howey vs. SEC (1946), the court found that the plaintiff's sale of land and agricultural services constituted an "investment contract"—even though there was no trace of a stock or bond.



This case established the four-prong Howey Test, which states that an investment can be regulated as a security if:



There is an investment of money.The investment is made into a "common enterprise."The investors expect to make a profit from their investment.Any expected profits or returns are due to the actions of a third party or promoter.



Under this rule, it does not matter if a securities offering is formalized with a legal contract or stock certificates; any type of investment offering can be a security. On several occasions, courts have enforced securities provisions on unconventional assets such as whiskey, beavers, and chinchillas. In recent years, the SEC has also sought enforcement against issuers of cryptocurrencies and non-fungible tokens.


   Types of Securities  

Securities can be broadly categorized into two distinct types: equities and debts. However, some hybrid securities combine elements of both equities and debts.


  Equity Securities  

An equity security represents ownership interest held by shareholders in an entity (a company, partnership, or trust), realized in the form of shares of capital stock, which includes shares of both common and preferred stock.



Holders of equity securities are typically not entitled to regular payments—although equity securities often do pay out dividends—but they are able to profit from capital gains when they sell the securities (assuming they've increased in value).



Equity securities do entitle the holder to some control of the company on a pro rata basis, via voting rights. In the case of bankruptcy, they share only in residual interest after all obligations have been paid out to creditors. They are sometimes offered as payment-in-kind.


  Debt Securities  

A debt security represents borrowed money that must be repaid, with terms that stipulate the size of the loan, interest rate, and maturity or renewal date.



Debt securities, which include government and corporate bonds, certificates of deposit (CDs), and collateralized securities (such as CDOs​ and CMOs​), generally entitle their holder to the regular payment of interest and repayment of principal (regardless of the issuer's performance), along with any other stipulated contractual rights (which do not include voting rights).



They are typically issued for a fixed term, at the end of which they can be redeemed by the issuer. Debt securities can be secured (backed by collateral) or unsecured, and, if secured, may be contractually prioritized over other unsecured, subordinated debt in the case of a bankruptcy. 


  Hybrid Securities  

Hybrid securities, as the name suggests, combine some of the characteristics of both debt and equity securities. Examples of hybrid securities include equity warrants (options issued by the company itself that give shareholders the right to purchase stock within a certain timeframe and at a specific price), convertible bonds (bonds that can be converted into shares of common stock in the issuing company), and preference shares (company stocks whose payments of interest, dividends, or other returns of capital can be prioritized over those of other stockholders).






Although the preferred stock is technically classified as equity security, it is often treated as debt security because it "behaves like a bond." Preferred shares offer a fixed dividend rate and are a popular instrument for income-seeking investors. It is essentially fixed-income security.


  Derivative Securities  

A derivative is a type of financial contract whose price is determined by the value of some underlying asset, such as a stock, bond, or commodity. Among the most commonly traded derivatives are call options, which gain value if the underlying asset appreciates, and put options, which gain value when the underlying asset loses value.


  Asset-Backed Securities  

An asset-backed security represents a part of a large basket of similar assets, such as loans, leases, credit card debts, mortgages, or anything else that generates income. Over time, the cash flow from these assets is pooled and distributed among the different investors.






   How Securities Trade  

Publicly traded securities are listed on stock exchanges, where issuers can seek security listings and attract investors by ensuring a liquid and regulated market in which to trade. Informal electronic trading systems have become more common in recent years, and securities are now often traded "over-the-counter," or directly among investors either online or over the phone.



An initial public offering (IPO) represents a company's first major sale of equity securities to the public. Following an IPO, any newly issued stock, while still sold in the primary market, is referred to as a secondary offering. Alternatively, securities may be offered privately to a restricted and qualified group in what is known as a private placement—an important distinction in terms of both company law and securities regulation. Sometimes companies sell stock in a combination of a public and private placement.



In the secondary market, also known as the aftermarket, securities are simply transferred as assets from one investor to another: shareholders can sell their securities to other investors for cash and/or capital gain. The secondary market thus supplements the primary. The secondary market is less liquid for privately placed securities since they are not publicly tradable and can only be transferred among qualified investors.


   Investing in Securities  

The entity that creates the securities for sale is known as the issuer, and those who buy them are, of course, investors. Generally, securities represent an investment and a means by which municipalities, companies, and other commercial enterprises can raise new capital. Companies can generate a lot of money when they go public, selling stock in an initial public offering (IPO), for example.



City, state, or county governments can raise funds for a particular project by floating a municipal bond issue. Depending on an institution's market demand or pricing structure, raising capital through securities can be a preferred alternative to financing through a bank loan.



On the other hand, purchasing securities with borrowed money, an act known as buying on a margin is a popular investment technique. In essence, a company may deliver property rights, in the form of cash or other securities, either at inception or in default, to pay its debt or other obligation to another entity. These collateral arrangements have been growing of late, especially among institutional investors.


   Regulation of Securities  

In the United States, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulates the public offer and sale of securities. 



Public offerings, sales, and trades of U.S. securities must be registered and filed with the SEC's state securities departments. Self Regulatory Organizations (SROs) within the brokerage industry often take on regulatory positions as well. Examples of SROs include the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD), and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA).



The definition of a security offering was established by the Supreme Court in a 1946 case. In its judgment, the court derives the definition of a security based on four criteria—the existence of an investment contract, the formation of a common enterprise, a promise of profits by the issuer, and use of a third party to promote the offering.


   Residual Securities  

Residual securities are a type of convertible security—that is, they can be changed into another form, usually that of common stock. A convertible bond, for example, is a residual security because it allows the bondholder to convert the security into common shares. Preferred stock may also have a convertible feature. Corporations may offer residual securities to attract investment capital when competition for funds is intense.



When residual security is converted or exercised, it increases the number of current outstanding common shares. This can dilute the total share pool and their price also. Dilution also affects financial analysis metrics, such as earnings per share, because a company's earnings have to be divided by a greater number of shares.



In contrast, if a publicly traded company takes measures to reduce the total number of its outstanding shares, the company is said to have consolidated them. The net effect of this action is to increase the value of each individual share. This is often done to attract more or larger investors, such as mutual funds.


   Other Types of Securities  
  Certificated Securities  

Certificated securities are those represented in physical, paper form. Securities may also be held in the direct registration system, which records shares of stock in book-entry form. In other words, a transfer agent maintains the shares on the company's behalf without the need for physical certificates.



Modern technologies and policies have, in most cases, eliminated the need for certificates and for the issuer to maintain a complete security register. A system has developed wherein issuers can deposit a single global certificate representing all outstanding securities into a universal depository known as the Depository Trust Company (DTC). All securities traded through DTC are held in electronic form. It is important to note that certificated and un-certificated securities do not differ in terms of the rights or privileges of the shareholder or issuer.


  Bearer Securities  

Bearer securities are those that are negotiable and entitle the shareholder to the rights under the security. They are transferred from investor to investor, in certain cases by endorsement and delivery. In terms of proprietary nature, pre-electronic bearer securities were always divided, meaning each security constituted a separate asset, legally distinct from others in the same issue.



Depending on market practice, divided security assets can be fungible or (less commonly) non-fungible, meaning that upon lending, the borrower can return assets equivalent either to the original asset or to a specific identical asset at the end of the loan. In some cases, bearer securities may be used to aid tax evasion, and thus can sometimes be viewed negatively by issuers, shareholders, and fiscal regulatory bodies alike. They are rare in the United States.


  Registered Securities  

Registered securities bear the name of the holder and other necessary details maintained in a register by the issuer. Transfers of registered securities occur through amendments to the register. Registered debt securities are always undivided, meaning the entire issue makes up one single asset, with each security being a part of the whole. Undivided securities are fungible by nature. Secondary market shares are also always undivided. 


  Letter Securities  

Letter securities are not registered with the SEC and cannot be sold publicly in the marketplace. Letter security—also known as restricted security, letter stock, or letter bond—is sold directly by the issuer to the investor. The term is derived from the SEC requirement for an "investment letter" from the purchaser, stating that the purchase is for investment purposes and is not intended for resale. When changing hands, these letters often require a SEC Form 4.


  Cabinet Securities  

Cabinet securities are listed under a major financial exchange, such as the NYSE, but are not actively traded. Held by an inactive investment crowd, they are more likely to be a bond than a stock. The "cabinet" refers to the physical place where bond orders were historically stored off of the trading floor. The cabinets would typically hold limit orders, and the orders were kept on hand until they expired or were executed.


   Issuing Securities: Examples  

Consider the case of XYZ, a successful startup interested in raising capital to spur its next stage of growth. Up until now, the startup's ownership has been divided between its two founders. It has a couple of options to access capital. It can tap public markets by conducting an IPO or it can raise money by offering its shares to investors in a private placement.



The former method enables the company to generate more capital, but it comes saddled with hefty fees and disclosure requirements. In the latter method, shares are traded on secondary markets and not subject to public scrutiny. Both cases, however, involve the distribution of shares that dilute the stake of founders and confer ownership rights on investors. This is an example of equity security.



Next, consider a government interested in raising money to revive its economy. It uses bonds or debt security to raise that amount, promising regular payments to holders of the coupon.



Finally, look at the case of startup ABC. It raises money from private investors, including family and friends. The startup's founders offer their investors a convertible note that converts into shares of the startup at a later event. Most such events are funding events. The note is essentially debt security because it is a loan made by investors to the startup's founders.



At a later stage, the note turns into equity in the form of a predefined number of shares that give a slice of the company to investors. This is an example of a hybrid security.




What Is the Difference Between Stocks and Securities?
Stocks, or equity shares, are one type of security. Each stock share represents fractional ownership of a public corporation, which may include the right to vote for company directors or to receive a small slice of the profits. There are many other types of securities, such as bonds, derivatives, and asset-backed securities.




What Are Marketable Securities?
A marketable security is any type of stock, bond, or other security that can easily be bought or sold on a public exchange. For example, the shares of public companies can be traded on a stock exchange, and treasury bonds can be bought and sold on the bond market.In contrast, a non-marketable security is one that cannot be legally sold to the public. For example, shares in non-public companies can only be bought or sold in very limited circumstances.




What Are Treasury Securities?
Treasury securities are debt securities issued by the U.S. Treasury department to raise money for the government. Since they are backed by the government, these bonds are considered very low-risk and highly desirable for risk-averse investors.


   The Bottom Line  

Securities represent the most common investment contracts. When saving for retirement, most people choose to put a portion of their savings in equity or debt securities. These securities markets are also important for the market as a whole, in that they allow companies to raise capital from the public.
What Is the Security Market Line?  

The security market line (SML) is a line drawn on a chart that serves as a graphical representation of the capital asset pricing model (CAPM)—which shows different levels of systematic, or market risk, of various marketable securities, plotted against the expected return of the entire market at any given time.



Also known as the "characteristic line," the SML is a visualization of the CAPM, where the x-axis of the chart represents risk (in terms of beta), and the y-axis of the chart represents expected return. The market risk premium of a given security is determined by where it is plotted on the chart relative to the SML.


   Understanding the Security Market Line  

The security market line is an investment evaluation tool derived from the CAPM—a model that describes risk-return relationship for securities—and is based on the assumption that investors need to be compensated for both the time value of money (TVM) and the corresponding level of risk associated with any investment, referred to as the risk premium.





Key Takeaways

The security market line (SML) is a line drawn on a chart that serves as a graphical representation of the capital asset pricing model (CAPM). The SML can help to determine whether an investment product would offer a favorable expected return compared to its level of risk.The formula for plotting the SML is required return = risk-free rate of return + beta (market return - risk-free rate of return).



The concept of beta is central to the CAPM and the SML. The beta of a security is a measure of its systematic risk, which cannot be eliminated by diversification. A beta value of one is considered as the overall market average. A beta value that's greater than one represents a risk level greater than the market average, and a beta value of less than one represents a risk level that is less than the market average.



The formula for plotting the SML is:



Required return = risk-free rate of return + beta (market return - risk-free rate of return)






Although the SML can be a valuable tool for evaluating and comparing securities, it should not be used in isolation, as the expected return of an investment over the risk-free rate of return is not the only thing to consider when choosing investments.


   Using the Security Market Line  

The security market line is commonly used by money managers and investors to evaluate an investment product that they're thinking of including in a portfolio. The SML is useful in determining whether the security offers a favorable expected return compared to its level of risk.



When a security is plotted on the SML chart, if it appears above the SML, it is considered undervalued because the position on the chart indicates that the security offers a greater return against its inherent risk.



Conversely, if the security plots below the SML, it is considered overvalued in price because the expected return does not overcome the inherent risk.



The SML is frequently used in comparing two similar securities that offer approximately the same return, in order to determine which of them involves the least amount of inherent market risk relative to the expected return. The SML can also be used to compare securities of equal risk to see which one offers the highest expected return against that level of risk.
What Is Seed Capital?  

The term seed capital refers to the type of financing used in the formation of a startup. Funding is provided by private investors—usually in exchange for an equity stake in the company or for a share in the profits of a product. Much of the seed capital a company raises may come from sources close to its founders including family, friends, and other acquaintances. Obtaining seed capital is the first of four funding stages required for a startup to become an established business.





Key Takeaways

Seed capital is the money raised to begin developing an idea for a business or a new product.This funding generally covers only the costs of creating a proposal.After securing seed financing, startups may approach venture capitalists to obtain additional financing.Some seed capital may come from angel investors—professional investors who have a high net worth.


   Understanding Seed Capital  

A company that is first starting out may have limited access to funding and other sources. Banks and other investors may be reluctant to invest because it has no history or established track record, or any measure of success. Many startup executives often turn to people they know for initial investments—family and friends. This financing is referred to as seed capital.



Seed capital—also called seed money or seed financing—is referred to as such because it is money raised by a business in its infancy or early stages. It doesn't have to be a large amount of money. Because it comes from personal sources, it's often a relatively modest sum. This money generally covers only the essentials a startup needs such as a business plan and initial operating expenses—rent, equipment, payroll, insurance, and/or research and development costs (R&D).



The primary goal at this point is to attract more financing. This means catching the interest of venture capitalists and/or banks. Neither is inclined to invest large sums of money in a new idea that exists only on paper unless it comes from a successful serial entrepreneur.


   Special Considerations  

A startup normally has to move through four distinct phases of investment before it is truly established—seed capital, venture capital, mezzanine funding, and an initial public offering (IPO). As mentioned above, seed capital tends to be just enough to help a startup achieve its initial goals. If the company is successful in the initial phase, it may catch the interest of venture capitalists. These investors are likely to invest heavily in the company before it moves further. So-called mezzanine financing is sometimes necessary to support a company into its introductory phase. This is usually available only to businesses with a track record—even then at a high rate of interest. The final stage is when early investors get their payday. When a young company goes public with its IPO, it raises sufficient capital to keep growing and expanding.






Seed capital is one of the four phases of investment along with venture capital, mezzanine funding, and an initial public offering.


   Seed Capital vs. Angel Investing  

Professional angel investors sometimes provide seed money either through a loan or in return for equity in the future company. These investors are generally high-net-worth individuals (HNWIs) and may come from the personal network of a startup's founder(s). Angel investors often enjoy a hands-on role in helping develop a company from scratch. If the angel investor contributes less than $1 million, the money is usually in the form of a loan. For the entrepreneur, this can solve the problem of attracting sufficient seed money, given the reluctance of financial institutions and even venture capitalists to take on considerable risk. When contributing more than $1 million, an angel investor typically prefers seed equity and becomes a co-owner of the startup and the holder of preferred stock with voting rights.


   Seed Capital vs. Venture Capital  

Seed capital and venture capital are often used as synonyms, and they tend to overlap. Seed capital is generally used to develop a business idea to the point that it can be presented effectively to venture capital firms that have large amounts of money to invest. If venture capital firms like the idea, they generally get a stake in the new venture in return for investing in its development.



Venture capitalists provide the lion's share of the money needed to start a new business. It is a considerable investment, paying for product development, market research, and prototype production. Most startups at this stage have offices, staff, and consultants, even though they may have no actual product.


   Example of Seed Capital  

Alphabet, the parent company of Google, provided seed money to the Center for Resource Solutions in 2016 for a project to implement renewable energy certification programs in Asia. The goal of the San Francisco-based center is to help businesses buy power from clean sources. The Center for Resource Solutions is a nonprofit organization, but Google has a business interest in the venture. It is already the world's largest non-utility purchaser of renewable energy but it wants to power its global data centers, and eventually its entire operations, with renewable energy.
What Is Seigniorage?  

Seigniorage is the difference between the face value of money, such as a $10 bill or a quarter coin, and the cost to produce it. In other words, the cost of producing a currency within a given economy or country is lower than the actual exchange value, which generally accrues to governments that mint the money.



If the seigniorage is positive, the government will make a profit; a negative seigniorage will result in a loss.





Key Takeaways

Seigniorage is the difference between the face value of money—both paper bills and coins—and what it costs to produce it.Seigniorage may be counted as positive revenue for a government when the money it creates is worth more than it costs to produce.In some situations, the production of currency can result in a loss instead of a gain for the government creating the currency.


   Understanding Seigniorage  

Seigniorage is counted as revenue for a government when the money it creates is worth more than it costs to produce. This revenue is often used by governments to finance portions of their expenditures without having to collect taxes. If, for example, it costs the U.S. government 5 cents to produce $1, the seigniorage is 95 cents or the difference between the two amounts. Seigniorage gives a country the potential to turn a profit when it produces money.



While the definition of seigniorage is most often the difference between the cost of printing new currency and the face value of that same currency, it is also the number of goods or services a government can acquire through the printing of new notes.



In some situations, the production of currency can result in a loss instead of a gain for the government creating the currency. This loss is more commonly experienced in the production of coins because the metal used to produce coins has inherent value. This value, often called the melt value, may be higher than the denomination it originally represented or, when combined with production costs, may result in a loss. For example, the U.S. penny, with a face value of one cent, cost 2.10 cents to produce in 2021—the sixteenth year in a row that production costs exceeded the penny's face value.



Over time, the melt value can also change as market demands shift, and it can potentially lead to the value of the metal being worth more than the face value of the currency. One example is silver coins, such as the U.S. silver quarter and the silver dime.


   Real World Example of Seigniorage  

Based on anticipated demand for new currency, the Federal Reserve places an order annually with the Department of the Treasury's Bureau of Engraving and Printing and pays for production costs. The Fed provides detailed information on each currency denomination and the cost to produce it. In 2022 for example, it cost 13.8 cents to produce a $20 bill, and 17 cents to produce a $100 bill.



The U.S. Mint is responsible for coin production, which is influenced by the number of requested Federal Reserve Bank orders. The Federal Reserve then purchases the coins at face value.





$1 billion

The Federal Reserve’s currency operating budget in 2022.


   Special Considerations  

While the basic principle behind seigniorage suggests that a country can profit from the production of new bills, there can be other factors affecting the entire transaction. If the Federal Reserve agrees to increase the number of dollars available within the U.S. economy, it will purchase a Treasury bill (T-bill) in exchange for permitting the production of more dollars.



While the government may appear to profit when the cost of production is lower than the face value of the bills, it is important to note that Treasury bills require interest payments to the Federal Reserve in addition to the original investment placed when the Treasury bill was purchased.


   Seigniorage and Gresham's Law  

Gresham's law is a monetary principle stating that "bad money drives out good." Gresham’s law was originally based on the composition of minted coins and the value of the precious metals used in them. In other words, if a gold coin is worth $5 and a silver coin is worth $0.50, people will hoard the gold coin and instead exchange 10 silver coins. As a result, the gold coins drop out of circulation and thus the bad money (the silver) drives out the good (the gold).



This becomes a form of effective seigniorage since the gold becomes worth more even though its face value is the same as 10 silver coins. However, since the abandonment of metallic currency standards, the theory has been applied to the relative stability of different currencies' value in global markets.




What Are the Origins of Seigniorage?
The origins of the term seigniorage date back to the days of feudal lords in Europe. Those who were “seigneurs” or lords had the authority to mint coins.




How Much Does It Cost to Produce a Dollar Bill?
The cost to produce a U.S. dollar in 2022 is 7.5 cents. This means the seigniorage is 92.5 cents per dollar bill.




How Many Coins Does the U.S. Mint Produce?
In 2021, the U.S. Mint produced more than 14 billion circulating coins. Circulating coins, such as the penny, nickel, dime, and quarter, are defined as those used for everyday transactions. The U.S. Mint also produces commemorative coins and precious metal coins.


   The Bottom Line  

Seigniorage allows governments to earn revenue when the face value of money is more than the cost to produce it. The revenue is typically used to fund expenditures without having to collect taxes.



Sometimes the production of currency can result in a loss instead of a gain. This is the case with the U.S. penny, which costs 2.10 cents to produce. The U.S. dollar, on the other hand, costs 7.5 cents to produce, resulting in a seigniorage of 92.5 cents.
What Is a Self-Directed IRA (SDIRA)?  

A self-directed individual retirement account (SDIRA) is a type of individual retirement account (IRA) that can hold various alternative investments normally prohibited from regular IRAs. Although a custodian or trustee administers the account, it’s directly managed by the account holder, which is why it’s called self-directed.



Available as either a traditional IRA (to which you make tax-deductible contributions) or a Roth IRA (from which you take tax-free distributions), self-directed IRAs are best suited for savvy investors who already understand alternative investments and want to diversify in a tax-advantaged account.





Key Takeaways

A self-directed individual retirement account (SDIRA) is a variation of a traditional or Roth individual retirement account (IRA).You can hold various alternative investments, including real estate, in self-directed IRAs that you can’t in regular IRAs.Self-directed IRAs are generally only available through specialized firms that offer SDIRA custody services.Custodians can’t give financial or investment advice for SDIRAs, which means that any research, due diligence, and management of assets rests solely with the account holder.There are other risks associated with SDIRAs, including fees and the possibility of fraud.


   Understanding a Self-Directed IRA (SDIRA)  

The main difference between an SDIRA and other IRAs is the types of investments that you can hold in the account. In general, regular IRAs are limited to common securities like stocks, bonds, certificates of deposit (CDs), and mutual or exchange-traded funds (ETFs).



But SDIRAs allow the owner to invest in a much broader array of assets. With an SDIRA, you can hold precious metals, commodities, private placements, limited partnerships, tax lien certificates, real estate, and other alternative investments.



As such, an SDIRA requires greater initiative and due diligence by the account owner.


   Taxes, Withdrawals, and Contributions  

Contributions to a self-directed IRA are limited to annual amounts. In 2023, this is $6,500 for those under age 50, with a $1,000 catch-up contribution for those over 50.



When you begin making withdrawals, you'll pay regular income taxes based on your income level if you start withdrawing before you're 59½. If you make any withdrawals before you reach this age, you'll owe a 10% penalty and pay income tax on the withdrawal.



When you turn 73, the IRS requires you to begin taking withdrawals. The amount you withdraw must meet minimum requirements based on your account balance and life expectancy.


   How to Open an SDIRA  

With most IRA providers, you can only open a regular IRA (traditional or Roth) and only invest in the usual suspects: stocks, bonds, and mutual funds/ETFs. To open an SDIRA, you'll need to:



Find a qualified IRA custodian that specializes in SDIRAs.Determine whether they offer the range of investments you want.Set up the account and pay any fees.Begin contributing to your account.



Remember that SDIRAs are self-directed, so custodians aren’t allowed to give financial advice. As such, traditional brokerages, banks, and investment companies usually don’t offer them to their clients. This means that you need to do your homework. If you need help picking or managing your investments, you should plan on working with a financial advisor.


   Traditional vs. Roth SDIRA  

Self-directed IRAs can be set up as traditional or Roth IRAs. But keep in mind that the two account types have different tax treatments, eligibility requirements, contribution guidelines, and distribution rules.



A key difference between a traditional and a Roth IRA is when you pay the taxes. With traditional IRAs, you get an up-front tax break, but you pay taxes on your contributions and earnings as you withdraw them during retirement. When you contribute to a Roth IRA, you don’t get a tax break, but your contributions and earnings grow tax-free, and qualified distributions are also tax-free.



Of course, there are other differences to consider. Here’s a quick rundown:



Income limits: Traditional IRAs have no income limits, but you must make less than a certain amount to open or contribute to a Roth.
Required minimum distributions (RMDs): You must start taking RMDs at age 73 if you have a traditional IRA. Roth IRAs have no RMDs during your lifetime.
Early withdrawals: With Roth IRAs, you can withdraw your contributions (but not your earnings) at any time, for any reason, with no tax or penalty. Withdrawals are tax and penalty-free after age 59½, provided the account is at least five years old. With traditional IRAs, withdrawals are penalty free starting at age 59½. Remember, you have to pay taxes on traditional IRA withdrawals.



These same rules apply to whichever version of an SDIRA you have.






SDIRAs also have to abide by the general IRA annual contribution limits. For 2023, that’s $6,500 per year or $7,500 if you’re 50 or older (up from $6,000 and $7,000 respectively for 2022).


   Investing in an SDIRA  

Self-directed Roth IRAs open up a large universe of potential investments. In addition to the standard investments (stocks, bonds, cash, money market funds, and mutual funds), you can hold assets that aren’t typically part of a retirement portfolio.



For example, you can buy investment real estate to hold in your SDIRA account. You can also hold partnerships and tax liens—even a franchise business.



The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) forbids a few specified investments in SDIRAs, whether it’s the Roth or traditional version. For example, you can’t hold life insurance, S corporation stocks, any investment that constitutes a prohibited transaction (such as one that involves self-dealing), and collectibles.



Collectibles include a wide range of items, among them antiques, artwork, alcoholic beverages, baseball cards, memorabilia, jewelry, stamps, and rare coins (note that this affects the kind of gold that a self-directed Roth IRA can hold).






Check with a financial advisor to be sure you aren’t inadvertently violating any of the SDIRA rules.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of SDIRAs  

SDIRAs have lots of benefits, but there are a few things to watch out for.





Advantages

You can choose the assets you place in the account
Tax breaks on earnings
Personalized diversity



Disadvantages

Easy to accidentally violate a rule and distribute the entire account
You can't get help from a custodian
Complicated fee structure
Some investments are not very liquid
Easy to become a victim of fraud





  Advantages Explained  

You can choose the assets you place in the account: An SDIRA allows you to select the investments you want, so if you prefer specific types of assets, sectors, or industries, you can build your portfolio to match.Tax breaks on earnings: Earnings grow in the account, so you pay taxes on earnings only when you make withdrawals.Personalized diversity: Choice allows you to diversify holdings within your IRA and use your IRA in your overall investing strategy to diversify your portfolio further.


  Disadvantages Explained  

Easy to accidentally violate a rule and distribute the entire account: If you break a rule, the entire account could be considered distributed to you. And you’ll be on the hook for all the taxes plus a penalty. Make sure you understand and follow the rules for the specific assets that you hold in the account.
You can't get help from a custodian: Again, SDIRA custodians can’t offer financial advice. You’re on your own. Make sure you do your homework and find a good financial advisor if you need help.
Complicated fee structure: SDIRAs have a complex fee structure. Typical charges include a one-time establishment fee, a first-year annual fee, an annual renewal fee, and fees for investment bill paying. These costs add up and can certainly cut into your earnings.
Some investments are not very liquid: It’s easy to get out of stocks, bonds, and mutual funds. Just place a sell order with your broker, and the market takes care of the rest. Not so with some SDIRA investments. For example, if your SDIRA owns an apartment building, it will take some time to find the right buyer. That can be especially problematic if you have a traditional SDIRA and need to start taking distributions.
Easy to become a victim of fraud: Even though SDIRA custodians can’t offer financial advice, they will make certain investments available. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) notes that SDIRA custodians don’t typically evaluate “the quality or legitimacy of any investment in the self-directed IRA or its promoters.”




What Is a Self-Directed Individual Retirement Account (SDIRA)?
A self-directed individual retirement account (SDIRA) is a type of individual retirement account (IRA) that can hold investments that a typical IRA cannot, such as precious metals, commodities, and real estate. SDIRAs have the same contribution limits as traditional and Roth IRAs: $6,500 per year and $7,500 if you're 50 or older (up from $6,000 and $7,000 respectively for 2022).




How Do You Set Up an SDIRA?
Per the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), all retirement assets, including those in SDIRAs, must be held by a qualified custodian. The custodian—which could be a bank, credit union, or other financial institution—administers the SDIRA, holds the account’s investments for safekeeping, and ensures that the SDIRA complies with IRS rules.While you can open an IRA or SDIRA at virtually any bank or financial institution, most “big box” custodians don’t offer alternative investments, such as real estate, precious metals, or cryptocurrencies. Therefore, it’s essential to find an SDIRA custodian that offers the nontraditional assets in which you are interested. Keep in mind that these firms can’t provide investment advice, meaning investment research is your responsibility.




Who Offers SDIRAs?
You can open an SDIRA at virtually any bank or financial institution that allows them. However, if you want to invest in nontraditional assets (e.g., real estate and precious metals), you must find a firm specializing in alternative assets. Of course, you should perform your due diligence before opening an account—and seek a financial advisor’s help to ensure that an SDIRA is right for you.


   The Bottom Line  

Self-directed IRAs are retirement accounts that allow you to choose how your retirement funds are invested. These IRAs differ from traditional IRAs in that you must monitor and maintain them to ensure they perform as you want them to.



SDIRAs can be an excellent choice for investors with more knowledge of and experience in the financial markets. However, they may be too advanced for the novice or intermediate retail investor because owning an SDIRA is similar to managing your own retirement fund.
What Is the Self-Employed Contributions Act (SECA) Tax?  

The Self-Employed Contributions Act (SECA) tax is a levy from the U.S. government on those who work for themselves, rather than for an outside company. It requires self-employed workers to contribute tax equivalent to both the employer and employee portions of the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) tax, which funds Social Security and Medicare.





Key Takeaways

SECA requires self-employed individuals to pay into the Social Security and Medicare tax funds. As self-employed individuals are their own employers, they are permitted to deduct the employer portion of SECA taxes as a business expense. Net self-employment earnings of less than $400 do not incur a SECA tax.The total self-employed tax is 15.3%, which includes 12.4% of Social Security tax and 2.9% of Medicare tax.


   Understanding the Self-Employed Contributions Act (SECA) Tax  

SECA taxes are computed on the basis of net earnings, defined as the gross income derived from business activities, minus the expenses incurred in the course of doing business.



Social Security tax is assessed at a basic rate of 6.2% for an employer and 6.2% for the employee. Self-employed taxpayers subject to SECA are taxed at 12.4% (6.2% + 6.2%), as they are considered to be both employer and employee.



There are limits, however, on how much income is subject to this percentage. For 2022, the Social Security tax is only applied to the first $147,000 of earnings. In 2023, the tax will be applied to the first $160,200 of earnings. Any income above that level is not subject to Social Security tax.






Unless there is a specific agreement in place between countries, expatriates (Americans who live and work abroad) are still expected to pay SECA taxes on earnings that are gained in the process of being self-employed.



The Medicare tax rate is 2.9% (1.45% for employers plus 1.45% for employees), and there is no exemption above a certain income. The total SECA tax is, therefore, 15.3%.



High-income earners face an additional SECA levy. As a result of the Affordable Care Act (ACA), individuals with a net income above $200,000 ($250,000 for married couples filing jointly) will be subject to an additional 0.9% Medicare tax.


   Deducting the Self-Employed Contributions Act (SECA) Tax  

The employer portion of the payment is deductible as a business expense. In other words, the IRS allows self-employed individuals to use the employer half of the self-employment tax as a business deduction for purposes of calculating the taxpayer's income tax. This takes into account that the efforts of running a company are taken on by an individual, rather than an "employer," which would be the case for an employee of a company.



It is important to note that self-employment taxes refer to Social Security and Medicare taxes, similar to FICA taxes paid by an employer. When a taxpayer takes a deduction of one-half of the SECA tax, it is only a deduction for the calculation of that taxpayer's income tax. It does not reduce the net earnings from self-employment or reduce the self-employment tax itself.


   Paying the Self-Employed Contributions Act (SECA) Tax  

Since taxpayers who are self-employed aren't subject to withholding tax, the IRS requires SECA tax to be included in quarterly estimated payments of income taxes. If self-employed net earnings are less than $400 (or $108.28 from a church or other qualified church-controlled organization exempt from employer Social Security and Medicare taxes), no SECA tax is due, and it is not required to be listed on a tax return; however, if self-employed net earnings are above this minimum, SECA tax must be paid on the entire amount, including the amount under the minimum.




How Much Tax Do You Pay If You Are Self-Employed?
The total tax you pay if you are self-employed is 15.3%. This is made up of Social Security tax (12.4%; both from the employer and employee's side of 6.2% each) and Medicare tax (2.9%; both from the employer and employee's side of 1.45% each).




How Do I Avoid Paying Taxes If I am Self-Employed?
If you are self-employed you cannot avoid paying taxes; that is considered tax evasion. You can reduce the amount of taxes you pay by making tax deductions to reduce your earnings, thereby reducing your total tax bill. The IRS allows self-employed people to make many tax deductions for their business, such as on office supplies, office equipment, gasoline costs, utilities, and insurance.




Are You Taxed More If You Are Self-Employed?
Technically, yes, you are taxed more. On top of paying regular federal and state taxes, a self-employed individual has to pay a 15.3% tax for Social Security and Medicare. The Social Security component is 12.4%, made up of the employer's tax of 6.2% and the employee's tax of 6.2%. The Medicare tax component is 2.9%, made up of the employer's tax of 1.45% and the employee's tax of 1.45%. If you are self-employed, you have to cover the employer's portion as well, hence being taxed more if you are self-employed. The IRS allows a tax deduction on the employer's portion of the tax.
What Is Self-Employment?  

A self-employed person does not work for a specific employer who pays them a consistent salary or wage. Self-employed individuals, or independent contractors, earn income by contracting with a trade or business directly.



In most cases, the payer will not withhold taxes, so this becomes the responsibility of the self-employed individual.



Self-employed persons may be involved in a variety of occupations but generally are highly skilled at a particular kind of work. Writers, tradespeople, freelancers, traders/investors, lawyers, salespeople, and insurance agents all may be self-employed persons.





Key Takeaways

Those who are self-employed work solely for themselves and contract directly with clients.Self-employment may not be subject to tax withholding, so those who are self-employed are responsible for paying their taxes.Self-employment can provide a great deal of job flexibility and autonomy; however, it also comes with a greater degree of employment risk and a more-volatile income.


   Understanding Self-Employment  

Although the precise definition of self-employment varies among the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), and private research firms, those who are self-employed include independent contractors, sole proprietors of businesses, and individuals engaged in partnerships.



A self-employed person refers to any person who earns their living from any independent pursuit of economic activity, as opposed to earning a living working for a company or another individual (an employer). A freelancer or an independent contractor who performs all of their work for a single client may still be a self-employed person.



A self-employed person is not necessarily the same as being a business owner. The owner of a business, for instance, may hire employees and essentially become the boss—an employee-owner who operates and manages the business.



Alternatively, a business owner has an ownership stake but may not be involved in the day-to-day operations of the company. In contrast, a person who is self-employed both owns the business and is also the primary or sole operator. The taxation rules that apply to those who are self-employed differ from the employee or a business owner.


   Types of Self-Employment  

Independent contractors are businesses or individuals hired to do specific jobs. They receive payment only for the jobs that they do. Because they are not considered employees, they do not receive benefits or workers’ compensation, their clients do not withhold taxes from their payments for work performed, and equal opportunity laws do not apply to them.



Examples of independent contractors include doctors, journalists, freelance workers, lawyers, actors, and accountants who are in business for themselves. It is worth noting that independent contractors are not just limited to specialized fields and can include a wide variety of jobs.



Sole proprietors are the only owners of unincorporated businesses, while partnerships involve two or more self-employed people who form a business together. Independent contractors, sole proprietors, and partnerships often hire a small number of employees to help them with their work.





8.81 million

The number of individuals that are self-employed and unincorporated in the U.S. as of July 2023.



It is estimated that freelancers, particularly in what is known as the gig economy, will continue to grow. There were approximately $67.6 million freelancers in 2021, which is expected to grow to $86.5 million by 2027. It is expected that 50.9% of the workforce will be freelancers by 2027.


   Special Considerations  

A self-employed person must file annual taxes and pay estimated quarterly tax. They are also typically required to pay a self-employment tax of 15.3% in addition to income tax. Of this tax, 12.4% goes to Social Security on the first $160,200 in 2023 and 2.9% goes to Medicare tax.



The self-employed person must pay the employer and the employee portion of Social Security and Medicare taxes. Those who make less than an annual net profit of $400 are exempt from paying taxes on that income.



The gig economy, a phenomenon that emerged with digitalization, includes everything from Uber drivers to dog walkers to consultants. There are upsides and downsides to being a gig worker.



The advantages are, of course, flexibility and control, but the disadvantages are that there is no guarantee of work, the pay is often low, and there are no employee benefits such as sick leave or a healthcare plan. Gig workers must be disciplined when it comes to paying taxes because they do not receive W-2s and must handle all tax withholding independently.




What Are the Main Types of Self-Employment?
The main types of self-employment categories are independent contractor, which is an individual working a specific job; a sole proprietorship, which is a business enterprise run by an individual and which may or may not have additional employees; and a partnership, which is a business structure between two or more individuals with ownership status.




How Do You Show Proof of Income If You Are Self-Employed?
Proof of income may be required in a variety of instances, such as in filing taxes, obtaining a mortgage or other loan, or purchasing health insurance. Ways to show proof of income if you are self-employed include tax returns, Form 1099, bank statements (both personal and of the business account), audited profit and loss statements, and official invoices.




What Are the Benefits of Being Self-Employed?
The benefits of being self-employed include being your own boss, creating your own schedule, flexibility, working towards your own dreams, taking enjoyment in the challenges of starting something from scratch, choosing the people you work with, and creating your own work environment.


   The Bottom Line  

A self-employed person is their own boss. They don't work for a specific company or individual who pays them a set amount on a periodic basis, conveniently paying half their Social Security and Medicare taxes. They more or less decide when they'll work and when they won't.



This might sound tempting, but the bottom line is that a self-employed person is their own employer and this translates to the individual having to pay full-boat Social Security and Medicare, both the employee and the employer portions. They must make periodic income tax payments to the IRS because their clients or customers won't withhold the money from what they're paid and send it to the government on their behalf. And they must foot the bill for supplies, equipment, and office space.



The tradeoff can nonetheless be tempting but think the decision over carefully if you're considering going out on your own as a self-employed person.
What Is a Self-Regulatory Organization (SRO)?  

A self-regulatory organization (SRO) is an entity such as a non-governmental organization, which has the power to create and enforce stand-alone industry and professional regulations and standards on its own.



In the case of financial SROs, such as a stock exchange, the priority is to protect investors by establishing rules, regulations, and set standards of procedures that promote ethics, equality, and professionalism.





Key Takeaways

A self-regulatory organization (SRO) is one that has the power to set industry standards and regulations through its own efforts.Effective SROs are able to provide standards and enforcement of those standards on their members.Although SROs can be privately owned, the government can still dictate their broader policies.Industries can band together and start their own SROs, which allow them to maintain competitiveness and safety concerns if there is a lack of governmental oversight.Examples of financial SROs include FINRA and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE).


   Understanding SROs  

Although SROs are private organizations, they are still subject to government-imposed regulation to a degree. However, the government does delegate some aspects of the industry oversight to self-regulatory organizations. 



Since the SRO has some regulatory influence over an industry or profession, it can often serve as a watchdog to guard against fraud or unprofessional practices. The ability of an SRO to exercise regulatory authority does not stem from a grant of power from the government.



Instead, SROs often accomplish control through internal mechanisms that regulate the flow of business operations. The authority may also come from an external agreement between like businesses. The purpose of these organizations is to govern from within while avoiding ties to a country's governance.






Any applicable laws or governmental regulations will apply and be foremost while those set by the SRO become supplemental.


   Authority of Self-Regulatory Organizations  

Once the self-regulating organization sets regulations and provisions to guide activity, those rules are binding. Failure to operate within the given regulations can have consequences, and a firm must understand those rules when it considers associating with the SRO.



Further, the SRO may set standards for professionals or businesses to meet before becoming a member, such as having a specified educational background or working in a manner that is considered ethical by the industry.



An additional function undertaken by the SRO is educating investors on appropriate business practices. The SRO will provide information and allow input on any areas of interest or concern, which may include fraud or other unethical industry activities. The SRO may also help investors understand how their investments work and advise on methods to mitigate potential risks associated with the securities industry.


   Examples of Self-Regulatory Organizations  

Most people have heard of SROs, even if they did not realize the organization in question was self-regulatory. These include several prominent asset exchanges and regulatory bodies, including:



The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)
The Financial Planning Association (FPA)
Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT)
American Council of Life Insurers (ACLI)
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (FINRA)
Fixed Income Clearing Corporation (FICC)
Options Clearing Corporation (OCC)
American Institute of Certified Public Accounts (AICPA)



There may also be self-regulatory organizations specific to the country they serve, such as the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada (IIROC) and the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI). Some industries may also create SROs with examples being the American Bar Association and the Institute of Nuclear Power Operations (INPO).






Financial SROs are required to file Form 19b-4 with the SEC before making any changes to its rules, specifically with regard to trading rules. In the filing, the SRO must justify the new rules to SEC staff, making clear that the rule change supports fair trading markets, and provides investor protections and requisite oversight procedures.


   Real World Example: FINRA  

As an example, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) has the power to license securities dealers. Their authority includes the ability to audit dealers and associated firms and to ensure compliance with the standards currently in place. The goal is to promote ethical industry practices and improve transparency within the sector. 



FINRA also oversees arbitration between investors, brokers, and other involved parties. This oversight provides a standard to address various disputes although it also limits actions a firm may take outside of the system. FINRA is not a governmental organization. Instead, it is a private organization populated by member firms that consist of financial institutions, like broker-dealers and financial professionals. 



The rules and regulations promoted and enforced by FINRA are, thus, under the auspices of a self-regulatory framework. Governmental laws or mandates fall under the control of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The laws of the federal or state level of government will supersede any FINRA-specific regulations.


   Frequently Asked Questions  
  What does an SRO mean in business?  

SRO stands for "self-regulatory organization". With an SRO, the principles and rules that govern the organization have been formulated and approved by its members, and members agree to adhere to them or face penalties such as fines or expulsion from the organization. Still, SROs may be subject to government regulation.


  What can a self-regulatory organization do?  

An SRO is usually formed by an industry or professional group to oversee activities within that industry or profession. As such, SROs can admit, reprimand, or expel members based on established rules and criteria. SROs thus have oversight, surveillance, and enforcement mechanisms in place to ensure members are conforming to its standards.


  Is FINRA the only financial SRO?  

No. Many stock exchanges and other professional bodies in the world of finance are structured as SROs. Moreover, SROs also exist outside of finance.


  Is the SEC an SRO?  

No, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is a federal regulatory body created by an act of Congress. It is thus governed by federal securities laws and not membership-based rules. Note that the SEC oversees FINRA and acts as the first level of appeal for actions brought by FINRA.
What Is "Sell in May and Go Away"?  

"Sell in May and go away" is a well known saying in finance. It is based on stocks' historical underperformance during the six-month period from May to October.



The historical pattern was popularized by the Stock Trader's Almanac, which found investing in stocks as represented by the Dow Jones Industrial Average from November to April and switching into fixed income the other six months would have "produced reliable returns with reduced risk since 1950."



The divergence has remained pronounced in recent years, with the S&P 500 index gaining an average of about 2% from May to October since 1990, compared with an average of approximately 7% from November to April, according to Fidelity Investments.



An academic paper that surveyed stock markets outside U.S. found the same pattern, calling the seasonal divergence trend "remarkably robust."





Key Takeaways

"Sell in May and go away" is an adage referring to the historically weaker performance of stocks from May to October compared with the other half of the year.Since 1990, the S&P 500 has averaged a return of about 2% annually from May to October, versus about 7% from November to April.The pattern did not hold in 2020, and is likely to be outweighed by more pressing considerations in other years.Investors could try to capitalize on the pattern by rotating into less economically sensitive stocks from May to October, based on historical data. 


   Theories for the Seasonal Divergence  

Financial markets were once influenced by the seasonal patterns tied to agriculture, but these have likely faded to insignificance given farming's dramatically reduced economic weight.



Seasonality in investment flows may persist as a result of year-end financial industry and business bonuses, with the mid-April U.S. income tax filing deadline possibly contributing.



Whatever fundamental considerations may be in play, the historical pattern is more pronounced as a result of the October stock-market collapses in 1987 and 2008.






The last significant stock-market decline during the period from May to October took place in 2011, with the S&P 500 down 8.1%. the S&P 500 declined 0.3% over the same months in 2015.


   Why Not Sell in May and Go Away?  

The only drawback of historical patterns is that they don't reliably predict the future. That's especially true of well known historical patterns. If enough people were to become convinced the 'Sell in May and Go Away" pattern is here to stay it would, in fact, promptly start to go away. Early-bird sellers would all try to sell in April, and bid against each other to buy the stocks back ahead of the pack in October.



The seasonal tendency's averages also conceal big fluctuations from year to year, of course. In any given year, the influence of seasonality is swamped by a variety of other, often more pressing considerations. Selling in May would have done anyone following that adage no good in 2020 as the S&P 500 slumped 34% over five weeks in February and March as the COVID-19 pandemic struck, only to return 12.4% from May to October.



In fact, in the decade through 2020 the unfashionable summer half of the market year averaged a solid if unspectacular return of 3.8%, with no significant decline since 2011, according to LPL Research.









S&P 500 "Sell in May" Returns (May-October)


Year
S&P 500 "Sell in May" Return




2011
-8.1%


2012
+1.0%


2013
+10.0%


2014
+7.1%


2015
-0.3%


2016
+2.9%


2017
+8.0%


2018
+2.4%


2019
+3.1%


2020
+12.3%



Source: LPL Research



"Sell in May" has also been off the mark in early 2022, with the S&P 500 down 8.8% in April and 13.3% since the start of the year.



In summary, while the historical pattern is undeniable, its predictive power is questionable and the opportunity costs incurred potentially significant.


   Alternatives to 'Sell in May and Go Away'  

Instead of acting on the saying literally, investors who believe the pattern will continue could rotate from the higher-risk market sectors to those that tend to outperform in periods of market weakness.



For example, a custom index representing the strategy of rotating between healthcare and consumer staples stocks held from May to October and more economically sensitive market sectors from November to April would have significantly outperformed the S&P 500 in both periods between 1990 and 2021, according to Pacer ETFs, sponsor of an exchange-traded fund attempting to execute this seasonal rotation as an investment strategy. The Pacer CFRA-Stovall Equal Weight Seasonal Rotation ETF (SZNE) had about $80 million in assets and was down more than 12% in 2022 as of April 29.



For many retail investors with long-term goals, a buy-and-hold strategy—hanging on to equities year-round, year after year, unless there's a change in fundamentals—remains the best course.
What Is Sell-Side?  

Sell-side is the part of the financial industry that is involved with the creation, promotion, and sale of stocks, bonds, foreign exchange, and other financial instruments to the public market. The sell-side can also include private capital market instruments such as private placements of debt and equity. Sell-side individuals and firms work to create and service products that are made available to the buy-side of the financial industry.



The sell-side of Wall Street includes investment bankers, who serve as intermediaries between issuers of securities and the investing public, and the market makers who provide liquidity in the public market. Investment bankers and corporate finance advisors play the same role for private issues of debt and equity.





Key Takeaways

Sell-side refers to the part of the financial industry that is involved in the creation, promotion, and sale of stocks, bonds, foreign exchange, and other financial instruments. Sell-side individuals and firms work to create and service products that are made available to the buy-side of the financial industry. The sell-side of Wall Street includes investment bankers, who serve as intermediaries between issuers of securities and the investing public.Market makers are the big players on the sell-side who provide liquidity in the market.


   Understanding Sell-Side  

The sell-side and buy-side of Wall Street are two sides of the same coin. One is dependent upon the other and could not operate without the other. The sell-side tries to get the highest price possible for each financial instrument while providing insight and analysis on each of these financial assets.



Buy-side players in the public market include money managers at hedge funds, institutional firms, mutual funds, and pension funds. Individual investors are technically on the buy-side. In the private market, private equity funds, VC funds, and venture arms of corporations investing in startups are on the buy-side. However, the term mostly applies to professional money managers. On the sell-side of the equation are the market makers who are the driving force of the financial market. For example, any individual or firm that purchases stock to sell it later at a profit is from the buy-side. 


   Foreign Exchange Sell-Side  

The FX market is the world's largest financial marketplace, with more than an estimated $6.6 trillion changing hands daily, as of 2019. Here, the sell-side is dominated by top multinational banks, led by JP Morgan Chase, Citibank, Deutsche Bank, and UBS. Bank trading rooms are divided into two groups:



Interbank traders who buy and sell large amounts of currency on the spot and forward markets.
The salespeople that sell securities to buy-side customers including hedge funds, mutual funds, and large corporations.



Many interbank traders take proprietary positions, but salespeople generally do not.


   Bond Market Sell-Side  

The global bond market is the world's second-largest financial marketplace, with an estimated value of over $100 trillion. The U.S. bond market is estimated to be valued at approximately slightly over $40 trillion.



Investment banks dominate the sell-side, with the largest being Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley. JP Morgan Chase and Bank of America, which combine commercial and investment banks under a single holding company, underwrite and manage bond issues. Many are also primary dealers of U.S. Treasury bonds, which means that they buy directly from the U.S. Treasury. The investment banks are very active, both trading and taking positions in the bond market.


   Stock Market Sell-Side  

Investment banks also dominate the sell-side of the stock market. They underwrite stock issuance, take proprietary positions, and sell to both institutional and individual investors. One of the most high-profile activities of the sell-side in the stock market is in initial public offerings (IPOs) of stocks. Companies can't go public themselves. They must enlist the services of an investment bank for underwriting. Underwriters are typically brokers, who act as a buffer between companies and the investing public, and who market and sell those initial shares.


   Example of Sell-Side  

A wealthy individual worth millions of dollars is looking to invest a significant portion of his capital. He heads to an investment bank for some options. The private wealth management division of the investment bank takes a look at the individual's assets and risk tolerance and comes up with an investment strategy for the individual as well as certain financial products they can sell to him.



The individual takes on the business of the investment bank, paying it commissions and fees for managing his money. The business that the investment bank has offered the wealthy individual is considered the sell-side of the business as it is selling to the client services and financial products.
What is Seller Financing?  

Seller Financing is a real estate agreement in which the seller handles the mortgage process instead of a financial institution. Instead of applying for a conventional bank mortgage, the buyer signs a mortgage with the seller.



Owner financing is another name for seller financing. It is also called a purchase-money mortgage.


   How Seller Financing Works  

Buyers attracted to seller financing are often those finding it difficult to get a conventional loan, perhaps due to poor credit. Unlike a bank mortgage, seller financing typically involves few or no closing costs and may not require an appraisal. Sellers are often more flexible than a bank in the amount of down payment. Also, the seller-financing process is much faster, often settling within a week.





Key Takeaways

In a seller-financed sale of a home, the buyer purchases directly from the seller and both parties handle the arrangements.Often seller financing includes a balloon payment several years after the sale.There are risks involved when financing a sale of your home. For example, If the buyer stops paying, you, the seller, could incur hefty legal fees, as well. 



For sellers, financing the buyer’s mortgage can make it much easier to sell a house. During a down real estate market, and when credit is tight, buyers may prefer seller financing. Moreover, sellers can expect to get a premium for offering to finance, meaning they are more likely to get their asking price in a buyer’s market.



Seller financing rises and falls in popularity along with the overall tightness of the credit market. During times when banks are risk-averse and reluctant to lend money to any but the most creditworthy borrowers, seller financing can make it possible for many more people to buy homes. Seller financing may also make it easier to sell a home. Conversely, when the credit markets are loose, and banks are enthusiastically lending money, seller financing has less appeal. 






Like a bank, sellers face the risk of borrower default. However, they must meet this risk alone.


   Disadvantages of Seller Financing  

The chief drawback for buyers is that they will almost certainly pay higher interest than for a market-rate mortgage from a bank. Financial institutions have more flexibility in changing the interest rate charged by offering non-conventional loans. Long-term, the higher seller-offered interest could wipe out the savings gained from avoiding closing costs. Buyers will still need to demonstrate their ability to pay back the loan.



As with any real estate purchase, they will also pay for a title search to make sure the deed is accurately described and free from encumbrances. Other charges they may have to pay to include survey fees, document stamps, and taxes. Unlike banks, sellers don’t have a staff of employees dedicated to chasing down delinquent payments and filing foreclosure notices.



A court might order the buyer to reimburse those costs, but if the buyer is bankrupt, that will not matter. If the seller still has a mortgage note on the property, it probably has a due-on-sale clause or an alienation clause. These clauses require full repayment of the current mortgage when the property sells. All this also means that both sides should employ experienced real estate attorneys to draft the paperwork to close the deal and make sure that all eventualities are covered.
What Are Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses (SG&A)?  

The category of selling, general, and administrative expenses (SG&A) in a company's income statement includes all general and administrative expenses (G&A) as well as the direct and indirect selling expenses of the business. This line item includes nearly all business costs not directly attributable to making a product or performing a service. SG&A includes the costs of managing the company and the expenses of delivering its products or services.





Key Takeaways

Selling, general, and administrative expenses (SG&A) are included in the expenses section of a company's income statement.SG&A expenses are not assigned to a specific product, and therefore are not included in the cost of goods sold (COGS).SG&A expenses are incurred in day-to-day business operations and may be required as part of operating any type of business.Managers typically target SG&A for cost reductions because they do not directly affect the product or service.SG&A expenses are closely related to operating expenses, though there are some small, technical differences.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   Understanding Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses (SG&A)  

SG&A plays a key role in a company's profitability and the calculation of its break-even point. SG&A is also one of the first places managers look to when reducing redundancies after mergers or acquisitions. That makes it an easy target for a management team looking to quickly boost profits.



Selling expenses can be broken down into direct and indirect costs. Direct selling expenses are incurred only when the product is sold. Indirect selling expenses occur throughout the manufacturing process and after the product is finished.



G&A expenses are the company's overhead. They are incurred in the day-to-day operations of a business and may not be directly tied to any specific function or department within the company. They are usually fixed costs that are incurred disregarding the amount of sales or production incurred during a certain period.






Many SG&A expenses are unavoidable. For example, companies are often required to maintain insurance and may find it impossible to operate without incurring a cost of maintain its headquarters.


   Types of SG&A Expenses  
  Selling Expenses  

Selling expenses are often related to the expenses necessary for the company to directly interface with customers. These types of expenses include:



Sales Expenses. This often includes salaries and wages of salespeople including commissions, payroll taxes, and benefits.
Marketing. This may encompass expenses directly related to a company's product line, services, brand, or image. A company may choose to aggregate marketing costs with advertising costs, though some companies may have enough reason to segregate these costs.
Advertising. This can be any form, and a company can choose to further refine the way it accounts for advertising by using many different general ledger codes.
Travel expenses. This is often related to in-person events or trade obligations such as trade shows or client meetings.


  General Expenses  

General expenses are often necessary to run a business. These costs would likely need to be incurred regardless of type of product or industry a company operates within. These types of expenses include:



Rent. This is most often the cost of renting an office or headquarter space but may encompass other items necessary for rent not related to the manufacturing process. 
Utilities. This relates to electricity, water, sewer, or garbage expense not part of the manufacturing process. 
Office equipment. This includes the cost to rent equipment or make one-time, non-material costs that do not meet capitalization requirements. 
Supplies. This includes general office supplies necessary for administrative personnel to carry out their jobs. 
Insurance. This is the broad coverage necessary for operating the business.


  Administrative Expenses  

Administrative expenses are largely related to the cost of personnel. These people may be internal staff or may be external parties providing services for a fee. These people often do not directly interface with the manufacturing or sale of goods. These types of expenses include:



Accounting payroll. 
Information technology/IT payroll.
Human resources payroll.
Legal council. These may be in-house salaries or paid to external firms.
Consulting fees. These are often paid to external parties for administrative purposes.






General and administrative costs are rarely reported separately; it's fairly common to see these two costs reported together.


   How to Calculate SG&A Expenses  

Calculating SG&A expenses is straightforward once expenses have been classified into different categories. Several items to keep in mind when calculating SG&A costs include:



Assess whether expenses are directly related to the manufacturing of the product. Costs not included in the production of goods must be included in the SG&A calculation.
Be cognizant of "below the line" expenses. Costs such as interest and taxes are not included in SG&A as they are deducted from operating income.
Determine your reporting period. SG&A can be calculated for any period (i.e. any month, quarter, or year). Be mindful that nominal accounts such as expenses are closed at the end of the accounting year. This information is often readily available in historical financial reports.
Consider your accounting method. Cash basis accounting will only recognize SG&A costs that have been paid for. Meanwhile, accrual basis accounting will recognize more broad expenses that may have been incurred but not yet paid. 


   How to Report SG&A Expenses  

SG&A has a very specific place on a company's income statement. Net revenue is always reported at the top, then COGS is deducted to arrive at the gross margin. SG&A and any other expenses are listed below the gross margin.



When these expenses are deducted from the gross margin, the result is operating profit. It's important to note that not all expenses have been recorded when calculating operating expenses. Some expenses such as interest expense or tax expense are reported below operating income.



A company may report SG&A in a number of different ways. Companies may aggregate all of these expenses in a single SG&A line, or it may segregate selling costs from general and administrative costs.






SG&A expenses as a percent of revenue are generally high for healthcare and telecommunications businesses but relatively low for real estate and energy.


   SG&A Expenses vs. Operating Expenses  

In many instances, SG&A expenses and operating expenses are one and the same. Both encompass the expenses necessary to operate a business independent of the costs to manufacture goods.



There are several subtle differences between SG&A expenses and operating expenses. Larger companies often separate these types of costs into smaller, specific SG&A categories as this is often easier for companies to track and monitor costs in these groups. Management often has discretion how many of these costs are reported on the income statement in respects to how to group these types of costs.



There are also a few specific accounts that may warrant specific accounting treatment that exclude them from SG&A. For example, research and development costs are often not to be included in SG&A. In addition, depreciation costs are often reported in this section of the income statement but excluded from SG&A as well.


   Real-World Examples of SG&A Expenses  

As part of its Q3 2022 financial reporting, Apple reported $12.809 billion of operating expenses for the quarter. Of this, $6.797 billion was research and development, while $6.012 billion was selling, general, and administrative. Although the company does state that increases to SG&A from prior periods relates to headcount, advertising, and professional services, there is little more transparency beyond these notes.















Apple, Q3 2022 Income Statement (Select Accounts).



A more in-depth example is provided by Amazon. In the three months ending June 30, 2022, Amazon reported $10.086 billion of sales and marketing expenses in addition to $2.903 billion of general and administrative expenses. Both figures represent at least a 30% increase from the same period from the year prior.















Amazon, Q2 2022 Income Statement (Select Accounts).



Amazon also provides guidance via the notes to its financial statements to explain what comprises the sales and marketing category in addition to the general and administrative category.















Amazon, Sales and Marketing Expenses.















Amazon, General & Administrative Expenses.




What Is the Difference Between COGS and SG&A?
SG&A includes almost every business expense that isn't included in the cost of goods sold (COGS). COGS includes the expenses necessary to manufacture a product including the labor, materials, and overhead expenses. SG&A costs are the residual expenses necessary to run the organization and incur costs less specifically tied to the cost of making the product.




What Are Selling Expenses?
Selling expenses include both indirect and direct business costs.Indirect selling expenses include advertising and marketing costs, the company's telephone bills and travel costs, and the salaries of its sales personnel. Such expenses occur throughout the manufacturing process and even after the product is finished.Direct selling expenses are incurred only when the product is sold and are related to the fulfillment of orders. They include the costs of shipping and shipping supplies, delivery charges, and the payment of sales commissions.




What Are General and Administrative (G&A) Expenses?
The G&A of SG&A may be called overhead expenses. A business has many expenses that are not directly related to making or selling a product. Office rent, utilities, and insurance all are costs of doing business. Departments like human resources and information technology support the business but do not take a direct role in product creation.




How Can SG&A Be Useful to a Business Manager?
SG&A is both critical to the success of a business and vulnerable to cost-cutting. Cutting the cost of goods sold (COGS) can be tough to do without damaging the quality of the product. Cutting operating expenses can be less damaging to the core business. SG&A costs are typically reduced after a company merger or acquisition makes it possible to reduce redundancies.




Does SG&A Include Salary?
It depends. The cost to directly manufacture products is included in COGS. This includes salaries such as manufacturing line supervisors. Other salaries such as accounting staff are included in SG&A.


   The Bottom Line  

A company must incur many different types of costs to run a business, and many of those expenses are not directly tied to making specific products. These broad costs are classified as selling, general, and administrative costs. Reported separately from COGS, these expenses are deducted from gross margin to determine a company's net income.
What Is a Senior Bank Loan?  

A senior bank loan is a debt financing obligation issued to a company by a bank or similar financial institution and then repackaged and sold to investors. The repackaged debt obligation consists of multiple loans. Senior bank loans hold legal claim to the borrower's assets above all other debt obligations.



Because it is considered senior to all other claims against the borrower, in the event of a bankruptcy, it will be the first loan to be repaid before any other creditors, preferred stockholders, or common stockholders receive repayment. Senior bank loans are usually secured via a lien against the assets of the borrower.





Key Takeaways

A senior bank loan is a corporate loan repackaged into a bundle of corporate loans that is sold to investors.Senior bank loans take priority over all of the other debt obligations of a borrower.In the event of a bankruptcy, senior bank loans receive payment before other creditors, preferred stockholders, and common stockholders, when the assets of the borrower are sold off.Senior bank loans are typically secured via a lien against the assets of the borrower.Senior bank loans most often come with floating interest rates.Historically, lenders that issue senior bank loans have been able to recover the entirety of the loan when the borrower has defaulted.Senior bank loans typically provide high-yield returns for investors and protection against inflation


   How a Senior Bank Loan Works  

Loans are often used to provide a business with cash to continue its daily operations or any other capital needs that it may have. The loans are generally backed by the company's inventory, property, equipment, or real estate, as collateral. Banks often take the multiple loans they make, repackage them into one debt obligation, and sell them off to investors as a financial product. The investors then receive the interest payments as the return on their investment.



Because senior bank loans are at the top of a company’s capital structure, if the company files for bankruptcy, the secured assets are typically sold and the proceeds are distributed to senior loan holders before any other type of lender is paid back.



Historically, the majority of businesses with senior bank loans that ended up filing for bankruptcy have been able to cover the loans entirely, meaning the lenders/investors have been paid back. Because senior bank loans take precedence in the repayment structure they are relatively safe, though they are still considered non-investment grade assets, as most of the time the corporate loans in the bundle are made to non-investment grade companies.



Senior bank loans typically have floating interest rates that fluctuate according to the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) or other common benchmarks. For example, if a bank’s rate is LIBOR + 5%, and LIBOR is 3%, the loan's interest rate will be 8%. Because loan rates often change monthly or quarterly, interest on a senior bank loan may increase or decrease at regular intervals. This rate is also the yield that investors will make on their investment. The floating rate aspect of a senior bank loan provides investors with protection against rising short term interest rates, as a protection against inflation.



In the repayment structure, after senior bank loans, which are typically classified as first lien and second lien, comes unsecured debt followed by equity.


   Special Considerations  

Businesses that take out senior bank loans often have lower credit ratings than their peers, so the credit risk to the lender is typically greater than it would be with most corporate bonds. What's more, the valuations of senior bank loans fluctuate often and may be volatile. This was especially true during the financial crisis of 2008.



Because of their inherent risk and volatility, senior bank loans typically pay the lender a higher yield than investment-grade corporate bonds. However, because the lenders are assured of getting at least some portion of their money back before the company's other creditors in the event of insolvency, the loans yield less than high-yield bonds, which carry no such promise.



Investing in mutual funds or exchange traded funds (ETFs) that specialize in senior bank loans may make sense for some investors who are seeking regular income and who are willing to assume the additional risk and volatility. Here's why:



Because of the loans’ floating rate, when the Federal Reserve raises interest rates, the loans will deliver higher yields.
In addition, senior bank loan funds typically have a risk-adjusted return over a three-to-five-year period that makes them attractive to fairly conservative investors. When the loan funds underperform, bonds sell at a discount to par, increasing an investor’s yield.



Investors can also take some reassurance from the fact that senior bank loan funds’ average default rate historically is a relatively modest 3%.
What Is the Sensex?  

The term Sensex refers to the benchmark index of the BSE in India. The Sensex is comprised of 30 of the largest and most actively traded stocks on the BSE and provides a gauge of India's economy. It is float-adjusted and market capitalization-weighted. The Sensex is reviewed semiannually each year in June and December. Created in 1986, the Sensex is the oldest stock index in India and is operated by Standard & Poor's (S&P). Analysts and investors use it to observe the cycles of India's economy and the development and decline of particular industries.





Key Takeaways

The Sensex is India's benchmark stock index and represents 30 of the country's largest and most well-capitalized stocks listed on the BSE.The index was launched in 1986 and is operated by S&P.It is calculated in Indian rupees and U.S. dollars.The index is float-adjusted and market capitalization-weighted.The Sensex has grown since India opened up its economy in 1991.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding the Sensex  

The Sensex was launched on Jan. 1, 1986. It is both a bellwether and an investable index used to track the performance of India's 30 largest and most financially sound companies. These companies are listed on the BSE (previously known as the Bombay Stock Exchange) and represent some of the biggest and most important sectors of the Indian economy. As such, it is India's most-tracked index.



The Sensex is calculated in Indian rupees (INR) and U.S. dollars. As of Aug. 31, 2021, the mean total market cap of the index was 3.71 trillion rupees. The top five constituents listed on the index were:



Reliance IndustriesHDFC BankInfosysHousing Development Finance Corp.ICICI Bank



The evolution of the Indian economy has shaped and changed the methodology of the Sensex. It was calculated based on the market cap when it was first launched but shifted to a free-float capitalization method in September 2003. This provided a weighting for the effect of a company on the index. The index uses a company's float rather than its outstanding shares, which means it doesn't include restricted stocks that can't be readily sold, such as those held by company insiders.



Despite all the changes to the methodology, the index's objectives haven't changed at all. Its constituents are selected by the S&P BSE index Committee based on several criteria:



They should be listed in India on BSE.
They should be a large-to mega-cap company.
The stocks should be relatively liquid.
The companies should generate revenue from core activities.
They should keep the sector balanced broadly in line with the Indian equity market.






The term Sensex is a portmanteau of the words sensitive and index and was coined by stock market analyst Deepak Mohoni.






   History of the Sensex  

The BSE Sensex's plunged 12.7%—its worst-ever fall—on April 18, 1992, after revelations of a scam in which a prominent broker siphoned money from the public banking sector to pump money into stock.



The index experienced enormous growth since India opened up its economy in 1991. The biggest gains occurred in the 21st century when it rose from around 5,000 in early 2000 to more than 42,000 in January 2020. This has mainly been the result of India's surging economy, which for years has grown at one of the fastest paces in the world.



India’s expanding economy owes much to the rise of the nation's middle class and vice versa. According to one study, nearly 80% of the nation's households will be middle-income by 2030, up from about 50% in 2019. The middle class is an important driver of consumer demand.



However, India's economic growth has slowed in recent years, reaching the lowest level in a decade in 2019. The outbreak of the global coronavirus pandemic in early 2020 has slowed the economy further, casting a shadow over future gains.




How Does the Sensex Work?
The S&P BSE Sensex index, colloquially known as the Sensex or Sensex Index, is a benchmark index of 30 of India’s largest and most liquid public companies. The companies that make up the Sensex are drawn from the Bombay Stock Exchange, which is the largest in India and one of the largest stock exchanges in the world. Many investors throughout the world use the Sensex as a barometer of the overall state of the Indian economy, which has grown substantially in recent decades.




How Is the Sensex Calculated?
The Sensex is calculated using a free-float capitalization method. This method is similar to the market-capitalization weighting method, in which companies are weighted according to their share of the total market capitalization of the index. As such, the Sensex gives more weight to the largest companies within its index. But unlike the market-capitalization method, the free-float capitalization method only takes into account shares that are freely available to be traded, as opposed to restricted shares or those held by companies insiders.




How Has the Sensex Performed in Recent Decades?
The Sensex has grown at a compounded rate of roughly 14% per year between 1986 and 2021. This growth reflects the substantial growth of the Indian economy during that time frame, and in particular the expansion of that nation’s middle class. The Sensex declined by nearly 40% in March 2020 in the midst of the coronavirus health crisis but recovered strongly over the remainder of the year. The Sensex went on to set a new all-time high as of February 2021.
What Is Sensitivity Analysis?  

Sensitivity analysis determines how different values of an independent variable affect a particular dependent variable under a given set of assumptions. In other words, sensitivity analyses study how various sources of uncertainty in a mathematical model contribute to the model's overall uncertainty. This technique is used within specific boundaries that depend on one or more input variables.



Sensitivity analysis is used in the business world and in the field of economics. It is commonly used by financial analysts and economists and is also known as a what-if analysis.





Key Takeaways

Sensitivity analysis determines how different values of an independent variable affect a particular dependent variable under a given set of assumptions.This model is also referred to as a what-if or simulation analysis.Sensitivity analysis can be used to help make predictions in the share prices of publicly traded companies or how interest rates affect bond prices.Sensitivity analysis allows for forecasting using historical, true data.While sensitivity analysis determines how variables impact a single event, scenario analysis is more useful to determine many different outcomes for more broad situations.












Investopedia / Lara Antal


   How Sensitivity Analysis Works  

Sensitivity analysis is a financial model that determines how target variables are affected based on changes in other variables known as input variables. It is a way to predict the outcome of a decision given a certain range of variables. By creating a given set of variables, an analyst can determine how changes in one variable affect the outcome.



Both the target and input—or independent and dependent—variables are fully analyzed when sensitivity analysis is conducted. The person doing the analysis looks at how the variables move as well as how the target is affected by the input variable.



Sensitivity analysis can be used to help make predictions about the share prices of public companies. Some of the variables that affect stock prices include company earnings, the number of shares outstanding, the debt-to-equity ratios (D/E), and the number of competitors in the industry. The analysis can be refined about future stock prices by making different assumptions or adding different variables. This model can also be used to determine the effect that changes in interest rates have on bond prices. In this case, the interest rates are the independent variable, while bond prices are the dependent variable.



Sensitivity analysis allows for forecasting using historical, true data. By studying all the variables and the possible outcomes, important decisions can be made about businesses, the economy, and making investments.






Investors can also use sensitivity analysis to determine the effects different variables have on their investment returns.


   Usefulness of Sensitivity Analysis  

Financial models that incorporate sensitivity analysis can provide management a range of feedback that is useful in many different scenarios. The breadth of the usefulness of sensitivity analysis includes but is not limited to:



Understanding influencing factors. This includes what and how different external factors interact with a specific project or undertaking. This allows management to better understand what input variables may impact output variables.
Reducing uncertainty. Complex sensitivity analysis models educate users on different elements impacting a project; this in turn informs members on the project what to be alert for or what to plan in advance for.
Catching errors. The original assumptions for the baseline analysis may have had some uncaught errors. By performing different analytical iterations, management may catch mistakes in the original analysis.
Simplifying the model. Overly complex models may make it hard to analyze the inputs. By performing sensitivity analysis, users can better understand what factors don't actually matter and can be removed from the model due to its lack of materiality.
Communicating results. Upper management may already be defensive or inquisitive about an undertaking. Compiling analysis on different situations helps inform decision-makers of other outcomes they may be interested in knowing about.
Achieving goals. Management may lay long-term strategic plans that must meet specific benchmarks. By performing sensitivity analysis, a company can better understand how a project may change and what conditions must be present for the team to meet its metric targets.






Because sensitivity analysis answers questions such as "What if XYZ happens?", this type of analysis is also called what-if analysis.


   Sensitivity vs. Scenario Analysis  

In finance, a sensitivity analysis is created to understand the impact a range of variables has on a given outcome. It is important to note that a sensitivity analysis is not the same as a scenario analysis. As an example, assume an equity analyst wants to do a sensitivity analysis and a scenario analysis around the impact of earnings per share (EPS) on a company's relative valuation by using the price-to-earnings (P/E) multiple.



The sensitivity analysis is based on the variables that affect valuation, which a financial model can depict using the variables' price and EPS. The sensitivity analysis isolates these variables and then records the range of possible outcomes.



On the other hand, for a scenario analysis, an analyst determines a certain scenario such as a stock market crash or change in industry regulation. The analyst then changes the variables within the model to align with that scenario. Put together, the analyst has a comprehensive picture and now knows the full range of outcomes, given all extremes, and has an understanding of what the outcomes would be, given a specific set of variables defined by real-life scenarios.


   Advantages and Limitations of Sensitivity Analysis  

Conducting sensitivity analysis provides a number of benefits for decision-makers. First, it acts as an in-depth study of all the variables. Because it's more in-depth, the predictions may be far more reliable. Secondly, It allows decision-makers to identify where they can make improvements in the future. Finally, it allows for the ability to make sound decisions about companies, the economy, or their investments.



There are some disadvantages to using a model such as this. The outcomes are all based on assumptions because the variables are all based on historical data. Very complex models may be system-intensive, and models with too many variables may distort a user's ability to analyze influential variables.





Pros

Provides management different output situations based on risk or changing variables
May help management target specific inputs to achieve more specific results
May easily communicate areas to focus on or greatest risks to control
May identify mistakes in the original benchmark
Generally reduces the uncertainty and unpredictability of a given undertaking



Cons

Heavily relies on assumptions that may not become true in the future
May burden computer systems with complex, intensive models
May become overly complicated which distorts an analysts ability to
May not accurately integrate independent variables (as one variable may not accurately the impact of another variable)





   Example of Sensitivity Analysis  

Assume Sue is a sales manager who wants to understand the impact of customer traffic on total sales. She determines that sales are a function of price and transaction volume. The price of a widget is $1,000, and Sue sold 100 last year for total sales of $100,000.



Sue also determines that a 10% increase in customer traffic increases transaction volume by 5%. This allows her to build a financial model and sensitivity analysis around this equation based on what-if statements. It can tell her what happens to sales if customer traffic increases by 10%, 50%, or 100%.



Based on 100 transactions today, a 10%, 50%, or 100% increase in customer traffic equates to an increase in transactions by 5%, 25%, or 50% respectively. The sensitivity analysis demonstrates that sales are highly sensitive to changes in customer traffic.




What Is Sensitivity Analysis in NPV?
Sensitivity analysis in NPV analysis is a technique to evaluate how the profitability of a specific project will change based on changes to underlying input variables. Though a company may have calculated the anticipated NPV of a project, it may want to better understand how better or worse conditions will impact the return the company receives. 




How Do You Calculate Sensitivity Analysis?
Sensitivity analysis is often performed in analysis software, and Excel has built in functions to help perform the analysis. In general, sensitivity analysis is calculated by leveraging formulas that reference different input cells. For example, a company may perform NPV analysis using a discount rate of 6%. Sensitivity analysis can be performed by analyzing scenarios of 5%, 8%, and 10% discount rates as well by simply maintaining the formula but referencing the different variable values. 




What Are the Two Main Types of Sensitivity Analysis?
The two main types of sensitivity analysis are local sensitivity analysis and global sensitivity analysis. Local sensitivity analysis assesses the effect of a single parameter at a time while holding all other parameters constant, while global sensitivity analysis is a more broad analysis used in more complex modeling scenarios such as Monte Carlo techniques.




What Is the Difference Between Sensitivity Analysis and Scenario Analysis?
Sensitivity analysis is the technique of taking a single event and determining different outcomes of that event. For example, a company may analyze its valuation based on several factors that may influence the calculation. On the other hand, scenario analysis relates to more broad conditions where the outcome is not known. For this example, imagine economists trying to project macroeconomic conditions 18 months from now. 


   The Bottom Line  

When a company wants to determine different potential outcomes for a given project, it may consider performing a scenario analysis. Scenario analysis entails manipulating independent variables to see the resulting financial impacts. Companies perform scenario analysis to identify opportunities, mitigate risk, and communicate decisions to upper management.
What Is a Serial Correlation?  

Serial correlation occurs in a time series when a variable and a lagged version of itself (for instance a variable at times T and at T-1) are observed to be correlated with one another over periods of time. Repeating patterns often show serial correlation when the level of a variable affects its future level. In finance, this correlation is used by technical analysts to determine how well the past price of a security predicts the future price.



Serial correlation is similar to the statistical concepts of autocorrelation or lagged correlation.





Key Takeaways

Serial correlation is the relationship between a given variable and a lagged version of itself over various time intervals.It measures the relationship between a variable's current value given its past values.A variable that is serially correlated indicates that it may not be random.Technical analysts validate the profitable patterns of a security or group of securities and determine the risk associated with investment opportunities.


   Serial Correlation Explained  

Serial correlation is used in statistics to describe the relationship between observations of the same variable over specific periods. If a variable's serial correlation is measured as zero, there is no correlation, and each of the observations is independent of one another. Conversely, if a variable's serial correlation skews toward one, the observations are serially correlated, and future observations are affected by past values. Essentially, a variable that is serially correlated has a pattern and is not random.



Error terms occur when a model is not completely accurate and results in differing results during real-world applications. When error terms from different (usually adjacent) periods (or cross-section observations) are correlated, the error term is serially correlated. Serial correlation occurs in time-series studies when the errors associated with a given period carry over into future periods. For example, when predicting the growth of stock dividends, an overestimate in one year will lead to overestimates in succeeding years.






Serial correlation can make simulated trading models more accurate, which helps the investor develop a less risky investment strategy.



Technical analysis uses measures of serial correlation when analyzing a security's pattern. The analysis is based entirely on a stock's price movement and associated volume rather than a company's fundamentals. Practitioners of technical analysis, if they use serial correlation correctly, identify and validate the profitable patterns or a security or group of securities and spot investment opportunities.


   The Concept of Serial Correlation  

Serial correlation was originally used in engineering to determine how a signal, such as a computer signal or radio wave, varies compared to itself over time. The concept grew in popularity in economic circles as economists and practitioners of econometrics used the measure to analyze economic data over time.



Almost all large financial institutions now have quantitative analysts, known as quants, on staff. These financial trading analysts use technical analysis and other statistical inferences to analyze and predict the stock market. These modelers attempt to identify the structure of the correlations to improve forecasts and the potential profitability of a strategy. In addition, identifying the correlation structure improves the realism of any simulated time series based on the model. Accurate simulations reduce the risk of investment strategies.



Quants are integral to the success of many of these financial institutions since they provide market models that the institution then uses as the basis for its investment strategy.






Serial correlation was originally used in signal processing and systems engineering to determine how a signal varies with itself over time. In the 1980s, economists and mathematicians rushed to Wall Street to apply the concept to predict stock prices.



Serial correlation among these quants is determined using the Durbin-Watson (DW) test. The correlation can be either positive or negative. A stock price displaying positive serial correlation has a positive pattern. A security that has a negative serial correlation has a negative influence on itself over time.
What Is a Series I Bond?  

A series I bond is a non-marketable, interest-bearing U.S. government savings bond that earns a combined fixed interest rate and variable inflation rate (adjusted semiannually). Series I bonds are meant to give investors a return plus protection from inflation.



Most Series I bonds are issued electronically, but it is possible to purchase paper certificates with a minimum of $50 using your income tax refund, according to Treasury Direct.





Key Takeaways

A series I bond is a non-marketable, interest-bearing U.S. government savings bond.Series I bonds give investors a return plus inflation protection on their purchasing power and are considered a low-risk investment.The bonds cannot be bought or sold in the secondary markets.Series I bonds earn a fixed interest rate for the life of the bond and a variable inflation rate that is adjusted each May and November.These bonds have a 20-year initial maturity with a 10-year extended period for a total of 30 years.





How Do I Bonds Work?

I bonds are issued at a fixed interest rate for up to 30 years, plus a variable inflation rate that is adjusted each May and November. This gives the bondholder some protection from the effects of inflation.






   Understanding Series I Bonds  

Series I bonds are non-marketable bonds that are part of the U.S. Treasury savings bond program designed to offer low-risk investments. Their non-marketable feature means they cannot be bought or sold in the secondary markets. The two types of interest that a Series I bond earns are an interest rate that is fixed for the life of the bond and an inflation rate that is adjusted each May and November based on changes in the non-seasonally adjusted consumer price index for all urban consumers (CPI-U).



The fixed-rate component of the Series I bond is determined by the Secretary of the Treasury and is announced every six months on the first business day in May and the first business day in November. That fixed rate is then applied to all Series I bonds issued during the next six months is compounded semiannually and does not change throughout the life of the bond.



Like the fixed interest rate, the inflation rate is announced twice a year in May and November and is determined by changes to the Consumer Price Index (CPI), which is used to gauge inflation in the U.S. economy. The change in the inflation rate is applied to the bond every six months from the bond's issue date.






In effect, the interest paid on Series I bonds is variable and changes over time, making it difficult to forecast the value of the bonds years from today.


   How to Calculate Series I Bonds  

The actual rate on the bond, known as the composite rate, is calculated by combining the fixed and inflation rates. Clearly, the inflation rate impacts the fixed rate set on the bond. However, the minimum level that the interest rate on a Series I bond can fall to is zero, which is the floor placed on the bond by the Treasury. If the inflation rate is so negative that it would take away more than the fixed rate, the composite rate will be set at zero. The formula for calculating the composite rate is given as:



Composite rate = fixed rate + (2 x semiannual inflation rate) + (fixed rate x semiannual inflation rate)



For example, if the fixed rate is 0.30% and the semiannual inflation is -2.30%, the composite rate on the bond will be:



= 0.003 + (2 x -0.023) + (0.003 x -0.023)= 0.003 - 0.046 - 0.000069= -0.04307, or -4.31%.



However, since it is negative in this case, the composite ratio will be adjusted to 0%.


   Special Considerations  

Series I bonds are considered low risk since they are backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government and their redemption value cannot decline. But with this safety comes a low return, comparable to that of a high-interest savings account or certificate of deposit (CD). Corporate and municipal bonds, however, can lose value; with this risk comes a higher return.



Series I bonds can be issued in any amount between the minimum and maximum purchase thresholds. The minimum purchase is $25, and the maximum annual purchase is $10,000 per Social Security number. Series I bonds can be held for as little as one year or as long as 30 years, but if they are sold after fewer than five years, the holder sacrifices the last three months' worth of interest.





Fast Fact

If an I bond is sold and the proceeds are used to pay for higher education, the interest is exempt from federal income tax.


   Series I Bonds and Interest Income  

Interest income for Series I bonds is taxable at the federal level, but not at the state and local levels. The series I bond is a zero-coupon bond, meaning that no interest is paid during the life of the bond. The interest is, instead, added back to the value of the bond and earns interest on interest. The bondholder has the option of selecting one of two methods of taxation—the cash method or the accrual method.



Under the cash method, tax is only applied when the bonds are redeemed. Therefore, a taxpayer that holds a bond for seven years before selling it will only be taxed at the time the bond is sold. Using the accrual method, on the other hand, taxes on the imputed interest earned are applied every year.



Sometimes, the Series I bond income is tax-free at the federal level if it is used to pay for higher education. When you sell an I bond and use the proceeds to pay for qualified higher education expenses at an eligible institution in the same calendar year, the interest is exempt from federal income tax.




Where Can I Buy Series I Savings Bonds?
U.S. savings bonds, including Series I bonds, can only be purchased online from the U.S. Treasury, using the TreasuryDirect website. You can also use your federal tax refund to purchase Series I bonds.




What Tax Form Do I Need to Fill Out If I Purchase U.S. Series I Savings Bonds With My Tax Refund?
If you use your income tax refund to purchase U.S. savings bonds, complete and file IRS Form 8888 with your tax return. The IRS will arrange for your U.S. savings bonds to be mailed to you.




What Has Been the Historical Interest Rates for Series I U.S. Savings Bonds?
The composite rate for I bonds issued from May 2022 through October 2022 is 9.62 percent. This rate applies for the first six months you own the bond. Each issue of Series I bonds has a fixed and variable interest rate component (known as the composite rate) that takes into account inflation at the time of issue. A table showing the historical fixed and variable components can be found here.




How Long Does It Take for a Series I Bond to Mature?
These bonds are issued at face value with a 30-year final maturity: a 20-year original maturity period immediately followed by a 10-year extended maturity period. 



Correction-May 17, 2022: The Series I Bonds FAQs have been updated to correct the composite rate.
What Is the Series 3?  

The Series 3 is an exam, also known as the National Commodities Futures Examination, administered by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) on behalf of the National Futures Association (NFA). Candidates who pass the exam are eligible to register with the NFA and sell commodity futures contracts and options on commodity futures contracts. The Series 3 is one of a number of exams for investment professionals administered by FINRA, including the Series 7, General Securities Representative Exam, which is required for brokers who wish to sell corporate, government, or other types of securities.





Key Takeaways


The Series 3 is an exam administered by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) on behalf of the National Futures Association (NFA), a self-regulatory organization for the U.S. derivatives market.
Candidates who pass the Series 3 exam can register with the NFA to sell commodity futures contracts and options on commodity futures contracts.
As an alternative to the Series 3, there are several other exams individuals can take to become eligible to work in the commodities and futures markets.



   How the Series 3 Works  

The Series 3 exam covers topics that commodities brokers need to know, such as options, futures, hedging, and margin requirements, as well as market and regulatory rules. The exam consists of 120 multiple-choice questions in two parts, and candidates have two hours and 30 minutes to complete it. Unlike the Series 7 exam, candidates do not need to be sponsored by a firm in order to take the Series 3.



Candidates must achieve a score of around 70% in each part to pass the exam. (There is no official pass rate, but the widely accepted pass rate is around 70%.) Those who fail to pass may take the exam over again, although they may be subject to a waiting period. The exam costs $130.






Anyone who wants to sell commodity futures contracts must generally pass the Series 3 exam.



The NFA, a self-regulatory organization for the U.S. derivatives market, requires anyone "who is applying for NFA membership as a futures commission merchant (FCM), retail foreign exchange dealer (RFED), introducing broker (IB), commodity pool operator (CPO), or commodity trading advisor (CTA), leverage transaction merchant (LTM) or as an associated person (AP) of these entities, to satisfy proficiency requirements."



In most cases, individuals seeking NFA membership or registration as an associated person must pass the Series 3 exam within two years before they apply. That's unless:



The individual is currently registered as a floor brokerThe individual passed the Series 3 more than two years preceding the application and since that date has not had a continuous registration gap for more than two years as an AP or FB or FCM, IB, CPO, CTA, or LTM who is a member of NFA.



To sign up for any futures industry exams, an applicant must apply online at the FINRA website. Typically, FINRA will notify directly the NFA that an individual has passed one of the futures industry exams. In some circumstances, however, the NFA may request that candidates provide proof that they passed.


   Alternatives to the Series 3  

Rather than the Series 3, individuals may be eligible to take other exams and pursue other registration options based on their registration status and the nature of the business they conduct. Those include:



Futures Managed Funds Examination (Series 31)Limited Futures Examination-Regulations (Series 32)



Other certification exams related to the Series 3 are the Series 30 (NFA Branch Manager Examination) and Series 34 (Retail Off-Exchange Forex Examination).



The Series 3 is not considered a prerequisite or corequisite for any of these other exams.



For more information on the Series 3 and other futures industry exams, visit the NFA's Proficiency Requirements page. And for more details on taking the test, visit FINRA's On the Day of Your Qualification Exam resource page.
What Is the Series 6?  

The Series 6 is a securities license entitling the holder to register as a company's representative and sell certain types of mutual funds, variable securities, and insurance. Holders of the Series 6 license are not authorized to sell corporate or municipal securities, direct participation programs, and options.



With a Series 6, an financial professional can purchase or sell certain types of mutual funds, variable life insurance, municipal fund securities, variable annuities, and unit investment trusts (UITs).





Key Takeaways

The Series 6 is a securities license entitling the holder to register as a company's representative and sell certain types of mutual funds, variable annuities, and insurance.Candidates must pass the Series 6 exam to obtain a Series 6 license, and the Securities Industry Essentials (SIE) exam is a corequisite for the Series 6 exam.Candidates must be sponsored by a member of FINRA or a self-regulatory organization (SRO) to take the exam.Series 6 exams were traditionally taken in person at test centers, but FINRA began offering them online in 2020.The greatest disadvantage of a Series 6 license is that holders are not authorized to sell exchange traded funds (ETFs).


   Understanding Series 6  

The Series 6 is a license sought by professionals in the financial services industry. Jobs utilizing the Series 6 license include financial advisors, retirement plan specialists, investment advisors, and private bankers. In order to obtain the Series 6 license, candidates must pass the Investment Company/Variable Contracts Products Limited Representative (Series 6) exam. The Securities Industry Essentials (SIE) exam is a corequisite for the Series 6 exam. The SIE does not require firm sponsorship.



The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) administers the Series 6 exam. It covers topics such as mutual funds, variable annuities, securities, tax regulations, retirement plans, and insurance products. A passing grade is achieved by correctly answering at least 35 of 50 questions within 90 minutes. Five additional questions are unscored for a total of 55 questions. The test costs $40, and it is administered via computer with no reference material allowed.



Candidates used to take the Series 6 exam in person at Prometric test centers. However, FINRA began offering tests, including the Series 6 exam, online in 2020. Prometric also administered the online tests. However, candidates or their employers had to install specialized software on their computers and provide cameras. Note, however, that a Series 6 expires two years after employment unless under special circumstances such a military deployment.


   What Does the Series 6 Allow You to Do?  

The FINRA Series 6 license allows an individual to act as a registered representative and sell mutual funds, variable annuities, and unit investment trusts (UITs). These types of investment products are considered to be relatively simple and are often suitable for individual investors who are looking for a way to diversify their portfolios or save for long-term financial goals such as retirement.



Holding a Series 6 license does not allow an individual to sell other types of securities, such as stocks, bonds, and options. If an individual wants to sell these types of securities, they would need to obtain a different securities license, such as the FINRA Series 7 license.



Individuals who hold a Series 6 license may be responsible for providing investment advice and recommendations to clients, as well as processing transactions and maintaining accurate records of their activities, but limited to the types of securities covered in this license. Series 6 licensees may work for a brokerage firm, bank, insurance company, or other financial institution, and may also be required to adhere to certain ethical and legal standards in the course of their work.


   Series 6 vs. Series 7  

The Series 6 exam is often compared to the Series 7 exam. The Series 6 costs substantially less money and has a shorter test covering less material. However, a Series 6 license is all that some financial advisors, investment advisors, and retirement planners need. Such advisors may only need a Series 6 license if they just sell insurance, annuities, and certain types of mutual funds, not individual stocks.



Series 6 holders, however, are not authorized to sell stocks, exchange-traded funds (ETFs), or bonds. This is a significant drawback because ETFs generally offer lower fees and are increasingly replacing mutual funds as the preferred investment vehicles among retail investors. Financial advisors and retirement planners who want to sell ETFs must obtain a Series 7 license, which requires taking a longer and more comprehensive exam that costs more money.



In comparison to the Series 6, the Series 7 license is generally considered to be more comprehensive and useful, and may open up more job opportunities in the securities industry. However, the Series 6 license may be sufficient for some individuals who are interested in selling mutual funds, variable annuities, and UITs and do not need to sell other types of securities.


   Requirements for Series 6  

Candidates must be sponsored by a member of FINRA or a self-regulatory organization (SRO) to take the exam. There is no prerequisite for the exam, but the Securities Industry Essentials (SIE) exam is a corequisite for Series 6 (Before Oct. 2018, the exam was 100 questions and didn't have the SIE corequisite. Today the Series 6 exam contains 50 questions).



Upon receiving a passing grade, candidates must then register with FINRA through their sponsoring firm in order to transact authorized securities. Holders of the Series 6 are considered limited representatives of their sponsoring firm. As a limited representative, they can sell certain types of mutual funds, variable annuities, and variable life insurance.


  Series 6 Exam Sections  

The exam has a 90-minute time limit and consists of 50 multiple choice questions. The passign grade is 70%. As outlined by FINRA, the Series 6 exam covers four specific sections.



"Seeks Business for the Broker-dealer from Customers and Potential Customers," which is 12 questions—covering 24% of the exam."Opens Accounts After Obtaining and Evaluating Customers' Financial Profile and Investment Objectives" is eight questions—covering 16% of the exam."Provides Customers with Information About Investments, Makes Suitable Recommendations, Transfers Assets, and Maintains Appropriate Records" is half the exam at 25 questions—covering 50% of the exam."Obtains and Verifies Customers' Purchase and Sales Instructions; Processes, Completes, and Confirms Transactions" is five questions—covering 10% of the exam.


  Continuing Education  

Licensees must fulfill continuing education requirements and receive sponsorship from a FINRA registered company to keep their Series 6 licenses.



FINRA’s continuing education program includes two elements: a regulatory element and a firm element. On the regulatory side, FINRA requires licensees to complete a computer-based training session within 120 days of the second anniversary of registration. FINRA also requires a computer-based training session every three years after that. The firm element requires broker-dealers to establish and maintain a continuing education program.




Is Series 6 or 7 Exam Harder?
The FINRA Series 7 exam is generally considered to be more difficult than the Series 6 exam. The Series 7 exam covers a broader range of topics and requires a deeper understanding of the securities industry and financial markets.




How Much Does the Series 6 Exam Cost?
As of 2022, the Series 6 exam costs $75.




How Long Is a Series 6 Good for?
The FINRA Series 6 license is valid for the duration of your employment with a FINRA member firm, as long as you remain registered and in good standing with FINRA. If you leave the firm or your registration lapses, your Series 6 license will no longer be valid.After two years, an individual who holds a Series 6 license must complete a certain number of continuing education (CE) credits in order to renew their license. The number of CE credits required for renewal depends on the specific requirements of the state in which the individual is licensed. In general, continuing education is required to ensure that registered representatives stay up-to-date on the latest developments in the securities industry and maintain their knowledge and skills. Completing CE credits can also help individuals maintain their professional licenses and stay in compliance with regulatory requirements.


   The Bottom Line  

The FINRA Series 6 is a securities license that allows an individual to act as a registered representative and sell mutual funds, variable annuities, and unit investment trusts (UITs). To obtain a Series 6 license, an individual must pass the Series 6 examination, which is administered by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA). The Series 6 exam covers topics such as types of securities, regulatory agencies, and investment risks. It is typically taken by individuals who are starting careers in the securities industry and who want to sell these types of investment products.
The Series 7 exam licenses the holder to sell all types of securities products except commodities and futures. Known formally as the General Securities Representative Qualification Examination, the Series 7 exam and its licensing is administered by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA).



Stockbrokers in the United States need to pass the Series 7 exam to obtain a license to trade. The Series 7 exam focuses on investment risk, taxation, equity, and debt instruments; packaged securities, options, retirement plans, and interactions with clients for prospective securities industry professionals. This introductory-level exam assesses a candidate’s knowledge of basic securities industry information including concepts fundamental to working in the industry.



The purpose of the Series 7 license is to set a level of competency for a registered representative or stockbroker to work in the securities industry. The Series 7 license is an essential requirement for an entry-level broker. The licensing exam covers an extensive range of financial terms and topics as well as securities regulations.





Key Takeaways

The Series 7 is an exam and license that entitles the holder to sell all types of securities products except commodities and futures.﻿﻿The Series 7 exam covers topics on investment risk, taxation, equity and debt instruments, packaged securities, options, and retirement plans.﻿﻿﻿﻿The purpose of the Series 7 license is to establish a level of competency for registered representatives in the securities industry.﻿﻿



Candidates who pass the Series 7 exam can trade many securities, such as stocks, mutual funds, options, municipal securities, and variable contracts. The Series 7 license does not cover selling real estate or life insurance products. In addition to obtaining the Series 7 license, many states require that registered representatives pass the Series 63 exam, also called the Uniform Securities Agent State Law Exam.


   Series 7 Requirements  

Since Oct. 1, 2018, Series 7 candidates are required to pass the Securities Industry Essentials (SIE) exam as well as the Series 7 exam in order to receive the General Securities registration. According to FINRA, the SIE is an introductory-level exam that "assesses a candidate’s knowledge of basic securities industry information including concepts fundamental to working in the industry, such as types of products and their risks; the structure of the securities industry markets, regulatory agencies and their functions; and prohibited practices." If you need more information on the SIE, FINRA's SIE exam content outline provides more details.



Candidates who want to take the Series 7 exam must be sponsored by a FINRA member firm or other applicable self-regulatory organization (SRO) member firm. The member firm must file a Form U4 (Uniform Application for Securities Industry Registration or Transfer Form) for the candidate to be registered for the licensing exam. Non-FINRA members should use the Test Enrollment Services System (TESS) in order to register for the exam. FINRA governs the activities of securities firms and registered brokers, ensuring that anyone who sells securities products is qualified and tested.






Candidates who want to take the Series 7 exam must be sponsored by a FINRA member firm or other applicable self-regulatory organization (SRO) member firm.


   Series 7 Exam Structure  

The Series 7 is structured as follows:



Seeks Business for the Broker-Dealer from Customers and Potential Customers: 9 questionsOpens Accounts after Obtaining and Evaluating Customers’ Financial Profile and Investment Objectives: 11 questionsProvides Customers with Information about Investments, Makes Suitable Recommendations, Transfers Assets, and Maintains Appropriate Records: 91 questionsObtains and Verifies Customers’ Purchase and Sales Instructions and Agreements; Processes, Completes, and Confirms Transactions: 14 questions



The Series 7 exam has 125 multiple choice questions, lasts 225 minutes, and cost $300. The passing score is 72%.



Prior to Oct. 1, 2018, the Series 7 exam contained 250 questions covering five major job functions. The exam duration was six hours, had no prerequisites, and cost $305. A score of 72% was required to pass.



FINRA does not provide candidates with any physical certificate as proof of exam completion. Current or potential employers who wish to view proof of completion must access this information through FINRA's Central Registration Depository (CRD).



Completion of the Series 7 exam is a prerequisite for many other securities licenses, such as the Series 24, which permits the candidate to supervise and manage broker activities.
What Is Series 9/10?  

Series 9/10 refers to a two-part securities exam and license entitling the holder to supervise sales activities at a general securities-oriented branch office. Before taking the Series 9/10 Exams, also known as the General Securities Sales Supervisor Qualification Exams, a candidate must have a Series 7 license.



The Series 9/10 covers topics such as the supervision of options and general securities sales and trading practices in primary and secondary markets. The Series 9/10 exams are administered by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and were formerly known as the Series 8 Exam. As the name would suggest, the exam is broken into two parts; the Series 9 is the shorter and covers options sales and trading, as well as regulation and administration. Series 10 represents a deeper dive into a similar but broader range of topics and requirements.


   Series 9/10 Permitted Activities  

The Series 9/10 is designed to protect the investing public by measuring the competency of General Securities Sales Supervisors and ensuring their expertise in the following areas:



Sale of corporate securities; rights; warrants; closed-end funds; money market funds; REITs; asset-backed securities; mortgage-backed securities (corporate); equity options; options on (corporate) backed securities; mutual funds; variable annuities and variable life insurance; government securities; repos and certificates of accrual on government securities; direct participation programs.


   Series 9/10 Eligibility  

Series 9/10 candidates must be registered with a FINRA member firm or other self-regulatory organization, and must already have passed the Series 7 General Securities Representative test.


   Series 9/10 Test Content  

The Series 9/10 Exam consists of 215 multiple-choice questions in four major content areas, 60 questions for the Series 9 and 145 questions for the Series 10. This total includes 15 unscored questions randomly placed in each part (five in the Series 9 and 10 in the Series 10). Candidates are allocated 90 minutes to finish the Series 9 and four hours to complete the Series 10. There is no penalty for guessing so candidates should endeavor to answer every question. The test is administered via computer and a score of 70% is required to pass. For more on the exam, see FINRA's Content Outline for the Series 9/10.



Questions are frequently changed or updated based on the introduction of new rules and amendments. Below are the job functions the exam tests for, as well as the number of scored questions covering that function:



Series 10 (Part 1):



Function 1: Supervise associated persons and personnel management activities (28 questions)Function 2: Supervise the opening and maintenance of customer accounts (49 questions)Function 3: Supervise sales practices and general trading activities (52 questions)Function 4: Supervise communications with the public



Series 9 (Part 2):



Function 1: Supervise the opening and maintenance of customer options accounts (18 questions)Function 2: Supervise sales practices and general options trading activities (19 questions)Function 3: Supervise options communications (5 questions)Function 4: Supervise associated persons and personnel management activities (13 questions)


   Series 9/10 Exam Sample Questions  

Below are samples FINRA has provided of the questions types/formats, and the subject matter a Series 9/10 test-taker is likely to encounter. The correct answers are noted with an asterisk:



Example 1: Which of the following items is considered retail communication?



(A) Electronic communication distributed to institutional investors on a daily basis



(B) Social media communication with institutional investors on a daily basis



(C) Written communication distributed to 10 retail investors within a 30-day period



(D) Written communication distributed to more than 25 retail investors within a 30-day period*



Example 2: A qualified person must inspect an office of supervisory jurisdiction (OSJ) at least:



(A) Quarterly



(B) Annually*



(C) Every two years



(D) Every three years



Example 3: Listed equity options would not be adjusted for which of the following actions in the underlying security?



(A) A 2-for-1 stock split



(B) A 1-for-5 reverse stock split



(C) A stock dividend of 5%



(D) A cash dividend of $0.50*


   The Difference Between Series 9/10 and Series 24  

Both Series 9/10 and 24 are the exams that must be completed by a principal before they can undertake certain sales activities.



According to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), a principal who has completed the Series 24 examination is qualified to supervise the following sales activities:



"Corporate securities; rights; warrants; closed-end funds; money market funds; REITS; asset-backed securities; (corporate) mortgage-backed securities; mutual funds; variable annuities and variable life insurance; direct participation programs; securities traders; venture capital; mergers and acquisitions; and corporate financing."



FINRA indicates that a principal who has completed the Series 24 exam is also qualified to supervise, in addition to sales, the overall investment banking and securities business of a member firm.



Completion of the Series 9/10 examination, which covers more terrain, qualifies a principal (excluding securities traders and those involved in venture capital; mergers and acquisitions and corporate financing) to supervise sales in all of the above, as well as the following: equity options; options on [corporate] mortgage-backed securities; government securities; repos and certificates of accrual on government securities; municipal securities, and municipal fund securities.
What Is the Series 24?  

The Series 24 is an exam and license entitling the holder to supervise and manage branch activities at a broker-dealer. It is also known as the General Securities Principal Qualification Examination and was designed to test the knowledge and competency of candidates aiming to become entry-level securities principals. Supervisory activities allowed after passing the exam include regulatory compliance over trading and market-making activities, underwriting, and advertising.





Key Takeaways

The Series 24 exam is taken in order to be qualified to manage branch activities.FINRA details the prerequisites for obtaining a Series 24, which are multiple investment exams such as the Series 7 and Series 79.The Series 24 exam contains 150 scored questions.Supervising general broker-dealer activities is the section of the test with the largest amount of questions.It is an extremely difficult exam.


   How the Series 24 Works  

The Series 24 exam is administered by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and covers topics such as corporate securities, real estate investment trusts (REITs), trading, customer accounts, and regulatory guidelines. In order to be eligible for a principal registration, a candidate must pass the Series 24 exam, the securities industry essentials (SIE) exam, and one of the following five representative-level qualification exams: Series 7, 57, 79, 82, or 86/87. Candidates can also pass the Series 24 and Series 16 exams but not the SIE and qualify for the research principal registration.


   The Series 24 Exam  

The examination contains 150 scored questions and 10 questions that are not scored, with the non-scored questions randomly distributed throughout the exam. To pass, a candidate must correctly answer at least 105 questions of the 150 scored questions. This equates to a score of 70%. The test administrator provides electronic calculators and dry-erase boards and markers. No other calculators, references, or study materials are permitted in the examination room.



Candidates have a maximum time of three hours and 45 minutes to complete the exam. A FINRA member firm or other applicable firms can register a candidate to take the exam by filing a Form U4 and paying the $120 examination fee.


   Special Considerations  

The Series 24 content is grouped into the five main job functions that a general securities principal engages in regularly at work for a broker-dealer. Those job functions include:



Supervision of Registration of the Broker-Dealer and Personnel Management Activities (9 questions): This includes regulatory requirements and exemptions, differences between various registrations, hiring and registration of associated persons, and maintenance of registrations.Supervision of General Broker-Dealer Activities (45 questions): This includes the development, implementation, and updating of firm policies; written supervisory procedures; and controls. It also includes supervision of the conduct of associated persons; disciplinary action; supervision of compensation; and development, evaluation, and delivery of products and services.Supervision of Retail and Institutional Customer-Related Activities (32 questions): This includes supervision of new account opening and maintenance of existing accounts, as well as monitoring of speaking engagements and other public communication. In addition, it includes the review of transactions, recommendations, and account activity for proper disclosures.Supervision of Trading and Market-Making Activities (32 questions): This includes supervision of order entry, routing, and execution, as well as the proper booking and settlement of trades, and the review of executions for compliance.Supervision of Investment Banking and Research (32 questions): This includes the development and maintenance of policies, procedures, and controls related to investment banking activities and research. It also entails the review and approval of investor disclosures, pitch books, and marketing materials.




How Hard Is the Series 24 Exam?
The Series 24 is a very hard exam. Although there are no official pass rates or figures, a quick search will bring up forums of those who have taken and the general consensus is that it is one of the hardest financial exams and requires a serious time commitment to studying and a deep understanding on the knowledge required to achieve the required 70% passing grade.




What Is the Series 24 Pass Rate?
The pass rate for the Series 24 is not published. However, many who sit for the exam consider it very difficult compared to the prerequisite exams. This is why study prep courses and FINRA itself recommend an extended period of time to prepare for the intense exam.




What Are the Requirements to Get Additional Time on the Series 24 Exam?
There is no information on the FINRA website regarding extra time for the Series 24 exam. However, it is designed and structured in a way that exam takers should have plenty of time to answer all the questions and return to ones that they missed or had reservations about.




Do I Need a Series 79 If I Have a Series 24?
Yes, a Series 79 exam is one of the prerequisites that must be taken before passing a Series 24 exam. You could also obtain an SIE and a Series 7, an SIE and a Series 57, an SIE and a Series 82, and an SIE and a Series 86 and 87. You could also forgo the SIE and a complement and sit for the Series 16 as a standalone prerequisite. If you have only the Series 79 and the SIE, then the principal registration you would be able to acquire would be Investment Banking Principal (BP).


   The Bottom Line  

The Series 24 exam is a difficult exam that requires substantial prerequisites before a candidate can sit for the exam. A candidate needs to be sponsored by a FINRA member or other applicable self-regulatory organization. Those who decide to pursue the exam do so in order to regulate compliance for advertising, market making, trading, and underwriting.
What Is Series 57?  

Series 57, also known as the Securities Trader Representative Exam, is an examination administered by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA). Passing the Series 57 exam is a requirement for those who wish to become professional traders of either equities or convertible debt securities. 





Key Takeaways

The Series 57 exam is an important exam for financial professionals.The Series 57 exam is a prerequisite for those wishing to trade equity and convertible debt securities.The Series 57 is administered by FINRA and consists of 50 multiple-choice questions. Its subject matter is updated regularly to reflect new regulatory and technological changes affecting the industry﻿﻿


   How Series 57 Works  

The purpose of the Series 57 exam is to protect the public by ensuring that professional traders meet a required standard of professional knowledge and competency. In addition to the Series 57 exam, would-be traders must also pass the Securities Industry Essentials (SIE) exam. Once both are completed, entry-level traders are certified to conduct trading on the Nasdaq exchange or over-the-counter (OTC) transactions, and may also conduct proprietary trading activities.﻿﻿



The Series 57 exam is designed to reflect the current technologies and practices of professional securities traders. As such, its questions are drawn from interviews with real-world practitioners and trading firms active in the field. By continuously updating the Series 57 exam in light of new developments in the industry, FINRA hopes to ensure that those who pass the exam will be well equipped to work with the public in both a competent and ethical manner.﻿





Important

In order to take the Series 57 exam, candidates must be affiliated with and sponsored by a FINRA member firm or other self-regulatory organization (SRO). The candidate must also pass the SIE to become registered as a securities trader.



The Series 57 exam has received several updates over the year that reflect ongoing changes in the industry. The most recent substantial change to the exam occurred in January 2017, when new sections regarding high-frequency trading (HFT) were added. This was done in the wake of various news stories involving unethical behavior by some HFT firms.﻿﻿ This change only affects new Series 57 candidates, whereas those who passed the previous versions of the exam are not required to be re-tested on the new material.


   Example of Series 57  

Dorothy is an intern at a financial firm that offers investment management services for their clients’ accounts. During her internship, Dorothy learns from the firm’s authorized traders and develops an interest in trading stocks and convertible debt securities. She also becomes interested in algorithmic trading techniques, such as HFT.



As an intern, Dorothy lacks the authorization to engage in these types of trades directly. To help further her career, she, therefore, decides to take the Series 57 and SIE exams. To pass the Series 57, she must answer 50 multiple-choice questions in 105 minutes, answering at least 70% of them correctly. Each question has only one best answer, and they range in degree of difficulty. Among them, 82% consist of questions about trading activities, while 18% consist of questions regarding administrative activities such as maintaining accurate records and correctly reporting on trades.﻿﻿



Once she has obtained her Series 57 and SIE certifications, Dorothy will be free to pursue professional roles as a trader of equity and convertible-debt securities. For this reason, she views the Series 57 and SIE examinations as an important stepping stone in her future career.
What Is the Series 63?  

The Series 63 is a securities exam and license entitling the holder to solicit orders for any type of security in a particular state. To obtain a Series 63 license, the applicant must pass an exam and possess knowledge of ethical practices and fiduciary obligations.





Key Takeaways

Applicants to the Series 63 license must pass an exam and possess knowledge of ethical practices and fiduciary obligations.Most U.S. states require all potential registered representatives to pass the exam, which covers the principles of state securities regulations and rules prohibiting dishonest or unethical practices.Colorado, Florida, Louisiana, Maryland, Ohio, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico do not require the Series 63.


   Understanding Series 63  

As of Dec. 2018, the North American Securities Administrators Association (NASAA), which creates the Series 63 exam, had updated its questions in light of recent changes to the tax code. Questions based on the 2018 tax code were phased out in January 2019. Questions for the Series 65 and Series 66 exams were also updated.



The Series 63 (formally known as the Uniform Securities Agent State Law Examination) is a registered exam that is required of all potential registered representatives in most of the U.S. states. However, Colorado, District of Columbia, Florida, Louisiana, Maryland, Ohio, and Puerto Rico do not require the Series 63.



The exam was developed to qualify candidates who want to work in the securities industry within a state and to sell investment products, such as mutual funds, variable annuities, and unit investment trusts. The exam covers the principles of state securities regulations. Each state has its own securities regulations, called blue-sky laws, which were developed to regulate the sale of securities.






Agents must acquire the Series 63 license, in addition to a Series 7 or Series 6 license, to sell securities.


   Requirements for Series 63  
  Exam Format  

The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) administers the Series 63 exam. There are 60 multiple-choice questions on the exam. The passing score is 72% or 43 of the 60 questions. The candidate must complete the exam within the allotted time of 75 minutes. As of March 2020, it costs $135 to take the exam.



The North American Securities Administrators Association (NASAA) developed the exam along with representatives of the securities industry. Candidates for the exam need to be familiar with the Uniform Securities Act of 1956 and the NASAA Statement of Policy and Model Rules. The Series 63 is an entry-level exam; there are no prerequisites for the exam after completing the Form U-10.


  Exam Topics  

The Series 63 exam covers the principles of state securities regulations and rules prohibiting dishonest or unethical practices. Some 45% of the questions pertain to regulations, 10% to administrative provisions, 20% to customer communication, and 25% to ethical practices and business obligations.



The topics on the exam include registration of various persons and securities, and fiduciary responsibility with client funds and securities. For more, see NASSA's Test Specifications.



Successfully completing the Securities Industry Essentials Exam (SIE) is required to be eligible to take the Series 7 and Series 6 license exams, but not the 63. To sell securities, broker-dealers must obtain the Series 63 license as well as the Series 7 or Series 6.
What Is the Series 65?  

Designed by the North American Securities Administrators Association (NASAA) and administered by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), the Series 65 is an exam and securities license required for individuals to act as investment advisers in the US.



The Series 65 exam, known formally as the Uniform Investment Adviser Law Examination, covers laws, regulations, ethics, and various topics important to the role of a financial adviser.





Key Takeaways

Financial professionals in the U.S. must often pass licensing examinations in order to practice.The Series 65 exam qualifies an investment professional to function as an Investment Adviser Representative (IAR) in most states.Topics include state and federal securities acts, rules and regulations for investment advisers, ethical practices, and fiduciary obligations—including communications with clients, compensation, client funds, and conflicts of interest.The exam features 130 multiple-choice questions, and you have 180 minutes to earn a passing score of at least 72%.If you passed the Series 65, you may also need to take the FINRA Series 7 exam to be fully-licensed to sell securities and execute trades.


   Understanding the Series 65  

Successful completion of the Series 65 exam is designed to qualify candidates as investment adviser representatives (IARs) in their home states.  As an IAR, advisors must act in a fiduciary capacity, offering investment advice to clients for a fee. 



Passing the Series 65 exam, formally known as the Uniform Investment Advisor Law Exam, is the only requirement for becoming an IAR. There are no prerequisites, and candidates do not need to be sponsored by an investment firm to sit for the exam, but they need to file a Form U10 (Form U4 for brokers) and pay the $187 exam fee. 



The Series 65 exam includes 130 questions that cover topics determined to be necessary to understand in order to provide investment advice to clients. These include questions on the subjects of economics, financial markets, investment vehicles, investment strategies, analysis, and ethics.



If you are not charging a fee and you do not regularly provide advice on securities, then you most likely do not need to get your Series 65 license. Other FINRA-administered qualification examinations include the Series 3 National Commodities Futures (NCFE), Series 7 General Securities Representative (GS), and Series 63 Uniform Securities Agent State Law.






Financial professionals who have successfully passed the Series 65 exam may not act as investment advisers until licensed and registered in their state.


   Series 65 Exam Structure  

The Series 65 examination contains 130 multiple-choice questions. Candidates have 180 minutes to complete the exam. Candidates must get 94 of the 130 questions correct to pass (a score of 72.3%).



Test takers must schedule an exam at a qualified testing center, where they are provided with a basic four-function electronic calculator. Only this calculator may be used during the exam. Dry-erase boards and markers are also provided for candidates. No reference materials of any kind are permitted in the exam room, and there are severe penalties for those who are caught cheating or attempting to cheat.



An individual's firm can schedule a candidate to take the exam by filing Form U4 and paying the $175 examination fee. If an individual is not firm-registered, the candidate uses Form U10 to request and pay for the exam.


   Series 65 Exam Content  

NASAA provides updated information on the exam's content on its website. The exam is structured as follows:



Economic Factors and Business Information (15%, 20 questions): Topics include monetary and fiscal policy, economic indicators, financial reporting, quantitative methods, and basic risk concepts.Investment Vehicle Characteristics (25%, 32 questions): Topics include cash and cash equivalents, fixed income securities, methods of fixed income valuation, equities and methods used in equity valuation, pooled investments, derivative securities, and insurance-based products.Client Investment Recommendations and Strategies (30%, 39 questions): Topics include individuals; business entities and trusts; client profiles; capital market theory; portfolio management styles, strategies, and techniques; tax considerations; retirement planning; ERISA issues; special types of accounts; trading securities; exchanges and markets; and performance measurement.Laws, Regulations, and Guidelines, including Prohibition on Unethical Business Practices (30%, 39 questions): Topics include state and federal securities acts; rules and regulations for investment advisers, investment adviser representatives, broker-dealers, and agents; ethical practices; and fiduciary obligations, including communications with clients, compensation, client funds, and conflicts of interest.



NASAA updated questions on the Series 65 exam in light of 2018 changes to the tax code. Tax-related questions appearing on the exams starting in Jan. 2019 reflect the tax code changes.





Studying for the Series 65

There are several resources in book form or online to help study and prepare for the Series 65 exam. Candidates are encouraged to devote between 50-70 hours to studying for the exam. Unlike many other securities exams, preparing for the Series 65 exam primarily involves memorizing rules and laws. People with good recall might require less preparation time than those who struggle with recall. Regardless, some exam sections are more challenging than others, especially for people with no background in securities.
In addition, Investopedia has reviewed several of the best Series 65 test prep courses, which you can find here.


   Series 65 vs. Series 63 vs. Series 66  

The NASAA offers three exams: the Series 65; Series 63; and Series 66.



The Series 65 was the first exam created by NASAA back in 1989, used to evaluate the competency of individuals who wanted to engage in commission or fee-based investment advisory services, such as being a financial advisor or RIA. At the time it was launched, it focused primarily on the Uniform Securities Act, NASAA rules, and ethical practices in the securities industry.



The Series 63 was developed to qualify candidates who wished to work in the securities industry within a state and to sell investment products, such as stocks, mutual funds, variable annuities, and unit investment trusts. In other words, to execute trades rather than give out financial advice. The exam covers the principles of state securities regulations and laws, and is formally known as the Uniform Securities Agent State Law Examination.



The Series 66 is a newer NASAA exam that combines subject matter from both the Series 63 and Series 65, and is fittingly known as the Combined State Law Exam. Test-takers of the Series 66 must also take the FINRA Series 7 licensing exam (which is not a co-requisite of the Series 63 or 65, although many individuals will still need the Series 7 to legally operate).






If you only have a Series 65 license, you can give financial advice but you cannot sell securities, execute trades on behalf of clients, or manage portfolios. To do so, you will also need to pass the FINRA Series 7 exam, which is more intensive




Does the Series 65 License Expire?
No, the Series 65 license does not expire as long as you are actively working in the financial services industry. If you leave the industry for more than two years, your new employer may require you to pass the Series 65 exam again.




Do I Need A Sponsor to Take the Series 65?
No. To sit for the Series 65 exam, a candidate does not require sponsorship by a member firm.




How Much Does the Series 65 Exam Cost?
The cost for sitting for the Series 65 exam is currently $187. You'll need a passing score of 72%, but if you fail you can pay the exam fee again and retake the test after 30 days.




Can I Become An IAR Without Taking Series 65?
Yes, but you will instead need to take the Series 7 and Series 66 exams.




Is the Series 65 a Hard Exam?
The NASAA does not release official pass rates, however test preparation programs estimate that the pass rate is around 65-70% of test takers.


   The Bottom Line  

The Series 65, officially known as the Uniform Investment Adviser Law Exam, is designed to test an individual's knowledge and ability to advise clients in the area of investing and to discuss general financial concepts. The Series 65 exam tests candidates' comprehension of financial concepts and qualifies them to give investment advice and charge a fee for doing so. Most state securities regulators have set the Series 65 as the minimum requirement to become an investment advisor representative (IAR).
What Is Series 66?  

Series 66, the NASAA Uniform Combined State Law Examination, is an exam and license that is meant to qualify individuals as investment advisor representatives (IARs) or securities agents. The Series 66 covers topics relevant to providing investment advice and effecting securities transactions for clients. Once licensed, IARs can legally conduct financial advising and wealth management duties.



The Series 66 exam is developed by the North American Securities Administrators Association (NASAA), along with the Series 63 and Series 65 exams. It is administered by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA).





Key Takeaways

The Series 66 is a professional licensing exam for investment advisor representatives (IARs).Those who want to become IARs or securities agents must pass both the Series 66 and Series 7 exams.The Series 66 exam has 100 multiple-choice questions, with a passing score of 73%.The exam covers topics such as economic factors, investment vehicles, client/customer investment recommendation strategies, and laws and regulations.The Series 66 is equivalent to taking both the Series 63 and Series 65 exams.


   Understanding the Series 66  

The Series 66 certification was developed by the NASAA based on requests from the industry. The exam is administered by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), which is also responsible for processing and disseminating test results. FINRA’s Series 7 exam is a co-requisite of the Series 66, which means it needs to be successfully completed along with the Series 66 before a candidate may apply to register in a state.



The Series 7 must be successfully completed before taking the Series 66. Individuals who have passed the Series 7 may take the Series 66 to avoid having to take the longer and possibly more difficult Series 65 exam.


   Series 66 Exam and Structure  

The Series 66 examination contents include 100 multiple-choice questions that are scored and 10 pretest questions that are not scored. Candidates have a maximum time of 150 minutes (2½ hours) to complete the examination.



To obtain a passing score, a candidate must correctly answer 73 of the 100 questions that are scored (73%). The exam administrator provides electronic calculators for candidates to use, and these are the only calculators allowed in the exam room. A dry-erase marker and a whiteboard are provided. No study or reference materials of any kind are permitted in the examination room, and there are harsh penalties for anyone caught cheating or attempting to cheat.



An individual’s employer can register a candidate for the exam by filing either a Form U4 or Form U10 and paying the $177 examination fee. FINRA’s Series 66 informational web page has additional details.



As of Oct. 21, 2022, you must take the Series 66 in person at a qualified testing center. The Series 66 qualification exam is available online only for candidates who provide medical proof that they cannot take exams in testing centers, due to a disability or other qualifying issue.






Harsh penalties are imposed on anyone caught cheating or attempting to cheat on the Series 66 exam.


   Series 66 Exam Content  

The NASAA updates information on the exam’s content and posts it online. As of October 2022, the exam questions are allocated as follows:



Economic Factors and Business Information (5%): This section includes five questions on financial reporting (such as financial ratios, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission [SEC] filings, and annual reports), quantitative methods (such as internal rate of return and net present value), and types of risk (such as market, interest rate, inflation, political, liquidity, and other risks).Investment Vehicle Characteristics (20%): The 20 questions in this section include but are not limited to: methods used to value fixed-income securities, types and characteristics of derivative securities, alternative investments, and insurance-based products.Client/Customer Investment Recommendations and Strategies (30%): The 30 questions in this section include but are not limited to: types of clients (including individuals, businesses, and trusts and estates), client profiling (including financial goals, current financial status, and risk tolerance), capital market theory, portfolio management strategies, tax considerations, retirement planning, trading accounts, and performance measurement.Laws, Regulations, and Guidelines, Including Prohibition on Unethical Business Practices (45%): This section includes 45 questions on state and federal securities acts along with related rules and regulations, ethical practices, and fiduciary obligations.





Series 66 vs. Series 63 and Series 65

The Series 66 essentially combines material found in both the Series 63 and Series 65. However, you must have passed the Series 7 as a co-requisite for the Series 66, which is not needed for the Series 63 or Series 65.The Series 63 by itself provides state-level authority to transact in securities on behalf of clients.The Series 65 by itself provides state-level authority to give financial advice and manage client assets.




What does the Series 66 allow you to do?
Passing the Series 66 exam licenses financial professionals to carry out work as an investment advisor representative (IAR) or securities agent with state-level authority. With the Series 66 license, financial professionals can legally act in the capacity of investment advisors or wealth/asset managers.




Is the Series 65 harder than the Series 66?
The Series 65 is another IAR licensing credential offered by the North American Securities Administrators Association (NASAA). The Series 66 exam is relatively new. It was created by NASAA in response to requests from broker-dealers and other financial services firms. It is essentially a combination of Series 63 and Series 65, but since a co-requisite for taking the exam is successful completion of the Series 7 exam, it does not include the product, analysis, and strategy questions that are a large part of the Series 65.While the pass/fail rates for these exams are not publicly available, many consider the Series 66 exam less difficult than the Series 65 because it has 30 fewer questions and does not include topics from the Series 7.




How difficult Is the Series 66 exam?
The Series 66 is difficult since it covers a wide breadth of detailed material. The official pass rates for the Series 66 exam are not officially published; however, test prep programs estimate the pass rate to be around 65% to 70% of test takers. If you fail the exam, you must wait at least 30 days before attempting it again.




How much does the Series 66 cost?
Taking the Series 66 exam costs $177 as of 2022. If you work for a financial firm, they may cover the exam cost on your behalf.


   The Bottom Line  

Those who want to become professional investment advisors or money managers need to pass both the FINRA Series 7 and NASAA Series 66 exams (although you can also take both the Series 63 and Series 65 in lieu of the 66). The Series 66 combines material from both the Series 63 and Series 65 exams, in a 100-question multiple-choice format. Test takers have 150 minutes and must score 73% or better to pass. Once you pass, you can legally transact in securities and give securities-related advice in all states.
What Is Series B Financing?  

Series B financing is the second round of funding for a business through investment, including private equity investors and venture capitalists. Successive rounds of financing a business are consecutively termed Series A, Series B, and Series C financing. The Series B round generally takes place when the company has accomplished certain milestones in developing its business and is past the initial startup stage.





Key Takeaways

Series B financing is the second round of funding for a company that has met certain milestones and is past the initial startup stage.Series B investors usually pay a higher share price for investing in the company than Series A investors.Series B investors typically prefer convertible preferred stock vs. common stock due to the anti-dilution feature of preferred stock.Series B funding can come from private equity investors, venture capitalists, crowdfunded equity, and credit investments.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   How Series B Financing Works  

In a Series B financing round, companies have advanced their business, resulting in a higher valuation by this time. Companies can seek various ways to raise funds in a Series B financing round. Series B investors usually pay a higher share price for investing in the company than the earlier investors through the Series A financing round.



Series A financing involves capital raising for startups with a solid business model. Series A funds are usually from private equity firms and are used to expand operations by buying equipment and inventory as well as hiring staff. Series A funding is considered seed capital since it's designed to help new companies grow.



Like Series A rounds, the capital for Series B rounds usually comes from venture capital or private equity funds. In many cases, the same investors that provided the Series A funding may offer additional contributions during the Series B round, while newer investors may choose to invest now that the company is more established.



Series B financing is the next stage of funding after the company has had time to generate revenue from sales. Investors have a chance to see how the management team has performed and whether the investment is worth it or not. As a result, Series B financing tends to have less risk associated with it versus Series A financing. However, Series A financiers get in at a lower share price to help compensate for that risk.


   Series B Equity  

Publicly-traded companies can raise capital or money by increasing the number of equity shares issued on the open market. However, one of the drawbacks of raising funds via the issuance of new shares can be share dilution. Dilution occurs when the existing shareholders see their percentage of ownership decrease as a result of new shares being issued. Dilution can lead to a lower stock price and valuation, which can be disconcerting for early investors.



To help mitigate the risks of dilution, Series B equity investors typically prefer to receive convertible preferred stock versus common stock. The preference stems from the various anti-dilution features that are available for preferred stock investors. Also, preferred stockholders are paid dividends before common stockholders. Dividends are cash payments from the company to its shareholders.


   Series B Financing Resources  

In addition to the public markets, businesses have an increasing number of fundraising resources for which they can obtain capital. In Series B funding, companies often utilize their previously pursued fundraising channels due to familiarity and reporting convenience. In some cases, the early investors from the Series A financing may want to up their stake in the company by lending them more money.



For startups and small businesses, Series B financing funding can come from private equity investors, venture capitalists, and credit investments. Direct capital raising from private equity investors and venture capitalists may require some specific investment constraints, such as a percentage of capital limit from each investor.



Overall, small businesses have a growing number of options from which to choose when raising capital at all stages of financing. In Series B financing, companies can select new financing methods that better fit their current situation or repeat similar funding methods as used in Series A financing.


   Series B Financing Via Crowdfunding  

As companies grow and produce revenue, they can also attract new sources of funding through crowdfunded equity. In the crowdfunded market, businesses can offer their company for investment to an unconstrained market of retail, private equity, venture capital, and institutional investors.



Businesses can also receive loans from crowdfunded investors, including the general public. These investing activities transact through an internet finance platform operated by a crowdfunded Internet finance provider. The provider connects companies with investors at low costs to both parties due to the minimized cost structures achieved through internet finance operations.



Crowdfunded investments have become popular in the small business sector, thanks to federal government support and the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act. These investments also have limitations on fundraising levels and capital allowances per investor. However, crowdfunded investments provide a wider market from which businesses can receive money.


   Real-World Examples of Series B Funding  

Although there are many examples of companies receiving private funding, two key sectors continue to be technology and healthcare. Below are three examples of series B financing.


  Robotics  

In February 2019, Mountain View, California-based robotics company Nuro raised $940 million in a Series B round from the SoftBank Vision Fund–giving it a valuation of $2.7 billion. The company, founded in 2016, previously raised $92 million in Series A funding co-led by Gaorong Capital and Greylock Partners.


  Self-Driving Technology  

Zoox, a self-driving technology development company founded in 2014, raised $500 million through Series B funding in July 2018. The Series B funding round was led by Mike Cannon-Brookes of Grok Ventures and gave the company a $3.2 billion valuation. In total, Zoox has raised $800 million.


  Healthcare  

Founded in 2017, Devoted Health raised $300 million through Series B funding in October 2018. The Waltham, Massachusetts-based insurance startup secured the funds from lead investor Andreessen Horowitz, Premji Invest and Uprising. Devoted Health serves seniors and offers various Medicare Advantage plans.




When Does a Series B Financing Round Happen?
For the average company, it takes from 10 to 18 months to get from the Series A round to the Series B round, according to data from Arc Ventures. However, only 66% of companies that complete a Series A round will make it to Series B. The rest either fail, or do not raise further capital.




How Much Equity Does a Typical Company Offer During Series B Financing?
During the Series B and C rounds, most companies sell about 15% of their total equity, according to figures from Equidam.




How Much Do Most Companies Raise in Series B?
In 2021, the average Series B financing round raised $45 million in the United States, according to data from Crunchbase. That's up nearly 50% from the prior year.


   The Bottom Line  

Series B financing is the third round of equity financing for new companies. Most startups are already well-established by the time they look for Series B funding, with reliable cash flows and a viable product. Investments in a Series B round tend to be less risky than Series A financing.
What Is a Series EE Bond?  

The Series EE Bond (often referred to as a "Patriot Bond") is a non-marketable, interest-bearing U.S. government savings bond. These bonds are guaranteed to at least double in value over the typical 20-year initial term. Some Series EE bonds have total interest-paying lives that extend beyond the original maturity date, up to 30 years from issuance. Coupon rates for Series EE Bonds are determined at the time of issuance and are based on the percentage of the long-term Treasury rates.





Key Takeaways

Series EE Bonds are interest-bearing U.S. government savings bonds guaranteed to at least double in value over their typical 20-year initial terms.Some Series EE bonds pay interest beyond the original maturity date, up to 30 years from issuance. There is a $25 minimum investment requirement for EE bonds. Every investor may purchase up to $10,000 in these bonds each calendar year. 


   How a Series EE Bond Works  

Along with the Series I bond, the Series EE bond is one of the two types of savings bonds issued by the US Treasury. Series EE bonds cannot be bought or sold in the open market, and are hence classified as non-marketable securities.



Series EE bonds issued after May 2005 are assigned semi-annual fixed coupon rates on May 1 and November 1. The rates apply to all issuances for the ensuing six months. Bonds issued after each date increase in value monthly, but interest payments are handed out semiannually.



Series EE bonds are considered ultra-safe, low-risk investments, whose interest is typically exempt from state and local taxes. However, they are subject to federal taxes, but only in the year in which the bond matures or is redeemed. EE Bonds may be purchased by U.S. citizens, official U.S. residents, minors, and all U.S. government employees—regardless of their citizenship status.


   Special Considerations  

Paper EE bonds were re-issued as "Patriot Bonds" after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. They are identical in every way to the paper Series EE Bonds except that any paper bonds purchased through a financial institution after Dec. 10, 2001, have the words "Patriot Bond" printed on the top half of the bond certificate, situated between the Social Security Number (SSN) and the issue date. Financial institutions no longer issue Series EE bonds in paper form, but the paper Patriot Bonds can still be cashed or converted into electronic bonds. 






Series EE bonds don't need to be reissued to correct small typographical errors in names, addresses, or Social Security numbers.


   Requirements for a Series EE Bond  

There is a $25 minimum investment requirement for EE bonds, and each investor may purchase up to $10,000 in these bonds each calendar year. Furthermore, bondholders must hold onto these investments for at least twelve months, before they can redeem the bonds. Those who redeem bonds within five years will be docked three months of accrued interest payments. Since EE bonds earn interest for up to 30 years, the longer they're held, the more they're worth.



Paper bonds were issued at a 50% discount to par, while bonds electronically sourced through TreasuryDirect are purchased at face value. The latter is still guaranteed to be worth twice their original value at first maturity date after 20 years while paying interest the same way as paper EE bonds.
What Is a Service Charge?  

A service charge is a fee collected to pay for services related to the primary product or service being purchased. The charge is usually added at the time of the transaction.



Many industries collect service charges, including restaurants, banking, and travel and tourism. When collected, these charges may cover services rendered to the consumer, or they may cover administrative or processing costs.



Service charges are paid directly to the company. They are different from tips, which are paid to the employee who renders the service. Paying a tip and the amount is wholly up to the customer.





Key Takeaways

A service charge is collected to pay for services related to the primary product or service being purchased. Service charges are different from tips, which are paid at the discretion of the customer after receiving a service. Many industries collect service charges including restaurants, banking, and travel and tourism. 


   Understanding Service Charges  

Service charges are additional charges related to the purchase of a product or service. They are generally collected at the time the transaction takes place between the consumer and the company. For example, a concert venue may charge a service fee in addition to the initial price of a ticket at the time of purchase in order to cover the cost of security or for providing the convenience of electronic purchases.



Service charges are also called service fees. They go by a number of different names depending on the industry, including booking fees (hotels), security fees (travel), maintenance fees (banking), and customer service fees.


   Types of Service Charges  
  Hospitality Industry  

Most hotels and restaurants in the U.S. charge a service fee that’s a percentage of the total bill, often in lieu of tipping. The delivery fee charged for ordering room service at a hotel or a gratuity applied to the bill for a large group dining at a restaurant are examples of service charges. If the total bill on an order is $250, and gratuity is stated to be 18%, then the total bill to be paid is $250 + (18% x $250) = $295.


  Banking Industry  

The banking industry charges a number of different services charges, which are typically set at a flat, standard rate. When you open a checking or savings account with a bank, the bank charges a monthly maintenance fee. This fee is debited from the account at the end of the month. Banks also charge service charges for using the ATM of a competing bank, or when initiating a wire transfer.


  Travel Industry  

Airlines collect a number of service charges, some of which include checked or oversized baggage fees, change or cancellation fees, early seat selection fees, and inflight experience charges such as WiFi, food, beverage, and entertainment.



An airport improvement fee or embarkation fee is a service charge applicable to departing and connecting passengers at an airport. It is levied by the government or an airport management corporation, and the proceeds are usually intended for funding of major airport improvements or expansion of airport services.



Depending on the location, the airport improvement fee is included in the cost of a traveler's airline ticket, in which case, the airline will forward the fee to the proper agency. However, in some locations, the fee must be paid at the point of embarkation.


  Residential Property  

Renting or leasing certain types of residential properties may have a service charge affixed to the monthly rent. For example, the tenant of a condo unit may be required to pay a condo fee on top of the rent. The condo fee is a service charge for general cleaning and maintenance of the building.



Online rental platforms that link renters to property owners such as Airbnb have service charges to cover the payment fees associated with the reservation. The service charge is usually calculated as a percentage of the subtotal and applies to renters and owners.


   Service Charges Versus Tips  

According to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), there is a big difference between service charges and tips. An amount imposed on the customer including automatic gratuities added to the bill is considered a service charge. The IRS classifies the following as service charges: banquet event fees, automatic gratuities added for large parties at restaurants and other dining facilities, hotel room charges, bottle charges, and cruise trip package fees.






Employers are required to report service charges to the IRS in the same fashion as other wages.



Tips, on the other hand, are discretionary. If a consumer wishes to give a tip, that's their own choice. Tips can come in the form of cash or through an electronic payment system. They may also be made in kind, like tickets and other valuable items.



A merchant or business cannot compel a consumer to make a tip and the consumer must be able to determine the amount. Furthermore, the customer has the right to determine who gets the tip.
What Is the Service Sector?  

The service sector produces intangible goods, more precisely services instead of goods, and according to the U.S. Census Bureau, it comprises various service industries including warehousing and transportation services; information services; securities and other investment services; professional services; waste management; health care and social assistance; and arts, entertainment, and recreation. Countries with economies centered around the service sector are considered more advanced than industrial or agricultural economies.





Key Takeaways

The service sector is the third sector of the economy, after raw materials production and manufacturing.The service sector includes a wide variety of tangible and intangible services from office cleaning to rock concerts to brain surgery.The service sector is the largest sector of the global economy in terms of value-added and is especially important in more advanced economies.


   Understanding Service Sector  

The service sector, also known as the tertiary sector, is the third tier in the three-sector economy. Instead of product production, this sector produces services maintenance and repairs, training, or consulting. Examples of service sector jobs include housekeeping, tours, nursing, and teaching. By contrast, individuals employed in the industrial or manufacturing sectors produce tangible goods, such as cars, clothes, or equipment.



Among the countries that place heavy emphasis on the service sector, the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia, and China rank among the top. In the United States, the Institute for Supply Management (ISM) produces a monthly index that details the general state of business activity in the service sector. This index is regarded as a metric for the overall economic health of the country because approximately two-thirds of U.S. economic activity occurs in the service sector.


   The Service Sector in the Three-Part Economy  

The service or tertiary sector is the third piece of a three-part economy. The first economic sector, the primary sector, covers the farming, mining, and agricultural business activities in the economy. The secondary sector covers manufacturing and business activities that facilitate the production of tangible goods from the raw materials produced by the primary sector. The service sector, though classified as the third economic sector, is responsible for the largest portion of the global economy’s business activity.


   Technology in the Service Industry  

Technology, specifically information technology systems, is shaping the way businesses in the service sector operate. Businesses in this sector are rapidly placing more focus on what is becoming known as the knowledge economy, or the ability to surpass competitors by understanding what target customers want and need, and operate in a way that meets those wants and needs quickly with minimal cost. In nearly all industries within the sector, businesses adopt new technology to bolster production, increase speed and efficiency, and cut down on the number of employees required for operation. This cuts down on costs and improves incoming revenue streams.
What Is Severance Pay?  

Severance pay is the compensation and/or benefits an employer provides to an employee after employment is over. Severance packages may include extended benefits, such as health insurance and outplacement assistance to help an employee secure a new position.



Employers offer packages to employees who are laid off, whose jobs are eliminated because of downsizing, or who retire. Some employees who resign or are fired may also receive a severance package.



Severance pay can be a goodwill gesture on the part of the employer and can provide the employee with a buffer between working and unemployment.





Key Takeaways

Severance pay is any form of compensation paid by an employer to an employee after employment has ended.Unless a contract or employee handbook requires it, employers are not legally required to pay severance.Severance may include accrued vacation and extended benefits, such as health insurance and outplacement assistance to help an employee find another job.As part of severance pay, employees are not allowed to sue the company for any damages.Severance pay is usually offered to employees that have lost their jobs due to company actions as opposed to poor employee performance resulting in them being fired.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Understanding Severance Pay  

Severance pay is offered to employees in certain circumstances after their employment ends. The amount an employee receives often depends on how long they were with the employer. Most employers have policies in their employee handbooks that outline how they handle severance pay.



Packages offered by employers usually come in a lump sum and are taxable. They generally include an employee's regular pay along with some or all of the following:



Extra pay based on months or years of employmentCompensation for unused, accrued vacation time, sick days, and/or holiday payMedical and dental benefits, and life insuranceRetirement accounts and stock options


   Severance and Unemployment Benefits  

Severance pay can affect unemployment compensation in two ways. If the employer pays the employee severance fee in a lump sum, the employee can apply for unemployment insurance right away as they are no longer on the company's payroll.



However, in some cases, companies issue severance pay over a period of several months. Through that process, the employee is still technically on the payroll, even if they do not go to work. This means they cannot apply for unemployment. Similarly, if an employee has unused vacation time, they are on the payroll as they use it.






The laws concerning unemployment and severance pay vary by state, so it's important to check with your local employment office about when to apply for unemployment benefits.



In other cases, severance pay affects unemployment compensation because of the contracts many people sign when they accept severance pay. In exchange for offering severance packages, some companies make their employees sign statements saying they voluntarily resigned from their posts.



These agreements prohibit the employee from claiming unemployment insurance, which is reserved for people who are dismissed from their jobs involuntarily. It is wise to read any documents carefully before signing them; legal advice may also be in order as it is sometimes possible to improve the initial severance package that was offered.


   Example of Severance Pay  

Company A is a large technology company based on the East Coast that is seeking to expand its footprint on the West Coast. In its efforts to expand, it decides to purchase Small Company B based in California which has a footing in the same business.



Company A wants to keep the bulk of the employees at Small Company B as they have experience in the local market; however, one division at Company B is similar in operations to an existing division at Company A, which is larger and has more experience. Company A decides that this division at Small Company B is redundant and both companies would be better served by completely replacing the division with members from Company A's existing team.



As such, the 10-person division at Small Company B is notified that they will be laid off. All 10 employees will be offered severance pay, which will be equal to one month's salary for every year that they have worked there. So if an individual has worked at the company for five years, they will receive five months' severance pay.




Why Offer Severance Pay?
Businesses are not required to pay severance, although most offer packages on a case-by-case basis and as dictated by employment contracts.When businesses fail to offer severance packages, it can upset staff and create negative public relations. In 2018, Sears announced it planned to lay off hourly employees without giving them any severance pay. The company, which was restructuring in bankruptcy, also said it planned to pay its executives millions in annual bonuses, which drew significant criticism from employees and the general public.




Do Businesses Have to Offer Severance Pay?
According to the U.S. Department of Labor, there is no law that requires employers to provide severance pay; however, if an employee's contract stipulates that they receive severance pay upon dismissal or if the employee handbook promises severance pay, the company is legally obligated to follow through with those pledges. Additionally, if the company makes a verbal promise to provide an employee with severance pay, it must uphold that agreement.Regardless of whether a company offers severance pay, the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) mandates an employer must pay terminated employees through their last day of work, and the employer must also pay any accrued vacation time to employees.




What Is Severance Pay Taxed at?
Severance pay is taxed at the same tax bracket as when you were fully employed and earning the same salary. This is the case if the severance payment is equal to what your salary was. If it is less, then you will be taxed to the appropriate tax bracket.


   The Bottom Line  

Severance pay is offered to employees of a company that have been laid off. Employees are laid off for a variety of reasons; usually due to downsizing or redundancy, but other reasons may be included. Employees that are laid off are done so due to corporate decisions as opposed to the quality of their work. There are exceptions to these situations and severance may be offered for other reasons as well.



Severance is offered to employees to help soften the blow of losing their job and to give them a cushion while they look for another job. Most severance pay also comes with the stipulation that the employee cannot sue the company or speak badly of it.
What Is the Shadow Banking System?  

The shadow banking system describes financial intermediaries that participate in creating credit but are not subject to regulatory oversight.



Banks play a key role in the economy, underpinning the credit system by taking money from depositors and using those funds to make loans. Banks usually have to operate with plenty of scrutiny from financial regulators in their home countries and around the world. Shadow banks, often known as nonbank financial companies (NBFCs), can usually operate with little to no oversight from regulators.



Examples of shadow banks or financial intermediaries not subject to regulation include hedge funds, private equity funds, mortgage lenders, and even large investment banks. The shadow banking system can also refer to unregulated activities by regulated institutions, which include financial instruments like credit default swaps.





Key Takeaways

The shadow banking system consists of lenders, brokers, and other credit intermediaries who fall outside the realm of traditional regulated banking.Shadow banking is generally unregulated and not subject to the same kinds of risk, liquidity, and capital restrictions as traditional banks are.The shadow banking system played a major role in the expansion of housing credit in the run-up to the 2008 financial crisis.Even so, shadow banking has grown in size and largely escaped government oversight since then, posing potential risks to the global financial system.


   Understanding Shadow Banking Systems  

Most of the shadow banking sector is made up of NBFCs, which fall under the oversight of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. NBFCs existed long before the Dodd-Frank Act. In 2007, they were given the moniker “shadow banks” by economist Paul McCulley, at the time the managing director of Pacific Investment Management Company LLC (PIMCO), to describe the expanding matrix of institutions contributing to the then-current easy-money lending environment—which in turn led to the subprime mortgage meltdown and the subsequent 2008 financial crisis.



Although the term "shadow banking" sounds somewhat sinister, many well-known brokerages and investment firms engage in shadow-banking activity. Investment bankers Lehman Brothers and Bear Stearns were two of the more famed NBFCs at the center of the 2008 financial crisis.



As a result of that crisis, traditional banks found themselves under closer regulatory scrutiny, which led to a prolonged contraction in their lending activities. As the authorities tightened up on the banks, the banks, in turn, tightened up on loan or credit applicants. The more stringent requirements gave rise to more people needing other funding sources—and hence, the growth of nonbank, "shadow" institutions that were able to operate outside the constraints of banking regulations.



The shadow banking system has escaped regulation primarily because, unlike traditional banks and credit unions, these institutions are not allowed to take traditional demand deposits—readily available funds, such as those in checking or savings accounts—from the public. This limitation keeps them outside the scope of conventional oversight from federal and state financial regulators.



Rather than taking deposits, these entities engage in other types of financial transactions. The Financial Stability Board (FSB), a body of international financial authorities, defines shadow banking by outlining different "credit intermediation" activities carried out by institutions outside the regulatory framework. These include maturity transformation (converting short-term funds into longer term investments), liquidity transformation (converting cash or similar assets into investments that are harder to sell), credit risk transfer (relocating the risk of default on a loan from the lender to another party), and leverage (using borrowed money to increase potential returns).


   History and Breadth of Shadow Banking System  

Shadow banking institutions arose as innovators in financial markets. They were able to finance lending for real estate and other purposes, but did not face the normal regulatory oversight and rules regarding capital reserves and liquidity. These rules are required of traditional lenders in order to help prevent bank failures, runs on banks, and financial crises. As a result of the ability of many of these institutions to avoid scrutiny from regulators, they were able to create financial instruments aimed at pursuing higher market, credit, and liquidity risks in their lending while avoiding the requirement to maintain the capital requirements regulators require of banks.



In the decade following the financial crisis of 2007-08, the shadow banking sector expanded, playing a key role in meeting the credit demand unmet by traditional banks. This growth came with a higher level of scrutiny from regulators, because of the fallout from the financial crisis. But despite this increased scrutiny, the sector has continued to expand significantly.



According to the Financial Stability Board, the shadow banking system—which the FSB calls the nonbank financial intermediary (NBFI) sector—grew 8.9% in 2021, well above its five-year average of 6.6% annual growth. At $293.3 trillion, the NBFI sector's share of total global financial assets reached 49.2% in 2021. Much of this growth stemmed from investment funds, with money pouring in and valuations rising as the economy recovered from its pandemic lows.





49.2%

The shadow banking system's relative share of total global financial assets at the end of 2021, according to the Financial Stability Board (FSB).



With the sector holding such a large percentage of financial assets around the world, it may come as no surprise that the two largest economies have high shadow banking concentrations. The U.S. is the top holder of shadow banking assets, followed by China. Chinese financial regulators reported that, as of 2019, shadow banking accounted for assets worth $12,9 trillion, equal to 86% of the country's GDP or 29% of its total banking assets.


   Shadow Banking Risks and Regulations  

The shadow banking industry plays a role in meeting rising credit demand in the United States. Although it's been argued that shadow banking's disintermediation can increase economic efficiency, its operation outside of traditional banking regulations raises concerns over the systemic risk it may pose to the financial system.



The unregulated nature of shadow banking activities means that, unlike bank deposits that are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), there is no similar level of protection for assets held by NBFCs. Shadow banking entities are also unable to access emergency loans from the Federal Reserve, which is available to banks that are facing a liquidity crunch.



The reforms enacted through the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act focused primarily on the banking industry, leaving the shadow banking sector largely intact. While Dodd-Frank imposed greater liability on financial companies selling exotic financial products, most of the non-banking activities are still unregulated.



One area that regulators are aiming to reduce the risks posed by shadow banking is by scrutinizing the exposure of regular banks to unregulated entities and products. While this stops short of regulating NBFCs, reining in their connection with traditional banking entities could help limit the risk to the overall economy posed by shadow banking.



The Federal Reserve Board has also proposed that nonbanks, such as broker-dealers, operate under similar margin requirements as banks. Meanwhile, outside the U.S., China began issuing directives in 2016 directly targeting risky financial practices such as excessive borrowing and speculation in equities.




What Are Examples of Shadow Banks?
Plenty of well-known companies are counted as shadow banks. These include:Investment banks, like Goldman Sachs or Morgan StanleyMortgage lendersMoney market fundsInsurance/re-insurance companies




What Are the Benefits of Shadow Banking?
Its supporters argue that an advantage of shadow banking is that it reduces the dependency on traditional banks as a source of credit. This is a positive benefit for the economy because it acts as an additional source of lending and provides diversification in the financial system.




Should Shadow Banks Be Regulated?
Many institutions, including the European Commission, argue that they should. They argue that the shadow banking sector requires regulation because of its size, its close links to the regulated financial sector, and the systemic risks that it poses. There is also a need, they claim, to prevent the shadow banking system from being used for regulatory arbitrage, or the process of taking advantage of loopholes to avoid potential regulatory restrictions.


   The Bottom Line  

The shadow banking system consists of lenders, brokers, and other credit intermediaries who fall outside the realm of traditional regulated banking. Although the term "shadow banking" sounds somewhat sinister, many well-known brokerages and investment firms engage in shadow-banking activity.



Proponents of these firms argue that they provide necessary credit that is not available through traditional banking channels. Opponents say that the shadow banking sector is an unregulated risk to consumers and to the financial security of the U.S. and global economy.
What Is Shadow Pricing?  

The term shadow pricing is used to refer to either one of two things:



The actual market value of a money market fund share even if its stated value is $1 per share.
The assignment of a dollar value to an abstract commodity that is not ordinarily quantifiable as having a market price but needs to be assigned a valuation to conduct a cost-benefit analysis.



The latter instance is more common and involves a shadow price that is assigned to goods that are not generally bought and sold as separate assets in a marketplace, such as production costs or intangible assets.





Key Takeaways

A shadow price is an estimated price for something that is not normally priced or sold in the market.Shadow pricing can provide businesses with a better understanding of the costs and benefits associated with a project.However, shadow pricing is inexact as it relies on subjective assumptions and lacks reliable data to fall back on.It is often used in cost-benefit accounting to value intangible assets, but can also be used to reveal the true price of a money market share, or by economists to put a price tag on externalities.Shadow pricing is also frequently used by economists to determine the value of public infrastructure projects like public parks and transportation.


   How Shadow Pricing Works  

Shadow pricing as it relates to money market funds refers to the practice of accounting the price of securities based on amortized costs rather than on their assigned market value. Money market fund shares are always assigned a nominal net asset value (NAV) of $1, even though the actual NAV falls slightly above or below this figure.



Such funds are required by law to disclose the actual NAV—the shadow share price—to show the fund's performance to investors more accurately. However, the use of the term "shadow price" in relation to money market funds is the less common usage of the phrase. It is more frequently applied in the process of cost-benefit analysis in business decision-making.



In its most common usage, a shadow price is an "artificial" price assigned to a non-priced asset or accounting entry. Shadow pricing is frequently guided by certain assumptions about costs or value. It is generally a subjective and inexact, or imprecise, endeavor. To make a decision regarding the undertaking of a project or investment, businesses often perform a comparative analysis of the project or investment cost against the projected benefits.



In performing a cost-benefit analysis, a business must often account for the costs or benefits of intangible assets that are difficult to assign a dollar value to but that must nonetheless be monetarily quantified for the purpose of performing the analysis.






Economists will often assign a shadow price to estimate the cost of negative externalities such as the pollution emitted by a firm.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Shadow Pricing  

Using shadow pricing helps a business obtain a fuller understanding of its project's real value. It is a necessary part of running a cost-benefit analysis and can assist management in their decisions about various aspects of a project's strategy and scope. Shadow pricing encourages responsible ethical behavior and is a vital tool in accurately evaluating a project.



That being said, there are a number of limitations to shadow pricing. Most notably, shadow pricing is inherently subjective; because the assets it attempts to value are intangible, the shadow price is proofless. Furthermore, because analysts must employ a fair amount of guesswork, there is significant room for bias. This means there is also a good chance the shadow price is not accurate. If the methodology used to create the shadow price is flawed, the business may direct its actions in a way that won't benefit and could discredit the company.



Finally, some critics believe shadow pricing puts too much emphasis on short-term social opportunity cost while ignoring the long-term priorities of the business.





Helps companies obtain fuller understanding of a project's real value

Encourages financially pragmatic business actions
Vital tool to running cost-benefit analysis
Helps companies be more proactive



Inherently subjective

Often inaccurate
Leaves room for bias in shadow pricing methodology
May be too rigid





   When Is Shadow Pricing Used?  

Shadow pricing is an incredibly useful tool when evaluating a project. Even though shadow pricing only provides a rough estimate, it helps management assess the value of certain operations and attempts to place a monetary value on the different tasks associated with the project. Furthermore, when a company wants to run a cost-benefit analysis, it must use shadow pricing to assign values to intangible items.



Shadow pricing is also frequently used in public policy in order to designate the value of various public infrastructure projects such as public transportation, parks, and bike lanes. Economists seeking the societal value of projects like public parks will use shadow pricing to demonstrate the benefits of certain infrastructure projects that are not typically assigned a monetary value.


   Example of Shadow Pricing  

An example of shadow pricing as applied to a proposed business plan to renovate a company's office facilities might be the assignment of a dollar value to the expected benefits of doing the renovation. While the cost of the renovation can easily be assigned a dollar value, there are elements of the project's expected benefit that must be assigned a shadow price because they are not as easy to quantify.



The possible benefits of the project include the following:



Improved employee moraleLower staff recruiting costsA lower employee turnover rate and increased productivity



Since it is impossible to assign a precise dollar value to such potential benefits, an estimated shadow price is assigned to set a dollar figure to compare with the cost figure.


   Shadow Pricing FAQs  
  What Is Shadow Pricing?  

Shadow pricing is used by analysts and economists to assign a monetary value to non-marketed goods such as production costs and intangible assets. Shadow prices are essential to running an accurate cost-benefit analysis of a project.


  Does Shadow Pricing Save Money?  

Shadow pricing provides management with a fuller understanding of the costs and benefits associated with a project. In the world of public policy, shadow prices help determine whether or not a public project is worth pursuing. Shadow pricing can save money by demonstrating the appropriate path of action to take.


  Do I Need to Use Shadow Pricing?  

When faced with a tough business decision, using a cost-benefit analysis that employs shadow pricing to determine the monetary value of production costs and intangible assets should give you a clearer picture of which course of action will make the most financial sense.


  What Items Does Shadow Pricing Cover?  

Shadow pricing quantifies production actions and abstract commodities that aren't normally assigned a numerical value. One common example of an abstract commodity is a public park; shadow pricing assigns a monetary value to the benefit of a park in order to decide how or if to pursue the project.
What Is a Share Certificate?  

A share certificate is a written document signed on behalf of a corporation that serves as legal proof of ownership of the number of shares indicated. A share certificate is also referred to as a stock certificate.





Key Takeaways

Share certificates are documents issued by companies that sell shares in the market.A shareholder receives a share certificate as a receipt of his or her purchase and to reflect ownership of a specified number of shares of the company.In today's financial world, physical share certificates are issued only rarely, with digital records replacing them in most cases.A share certificate that is damaged, lost, or stolen can be reissued with a replacement certificate in respect of the same number of shares.Issuing paper stock certificates is labor-intensive and represents a big expense for the company.Ownership of paper stock is very difficult to keep up with, as shareholders can pass the certificates to someone else without notifying the company.If your share certificate is lost, accidentally destroyed, or stolen, you should immediately contact the transfer agent and request a "stop transfer."Whether someone is transferring a stock certificate on death or electronic shares on death, the tax implications are the same.


   Understanding Share Certificates  

When companies issue shares in the market, shareholders who buy in are issued a share certificate. The share certificate basically acts as a receipt for the purchase and ownership of shares in the company. The document certifies registered ownership of shares from a particular date.



Key information on a share certificate includes:



Certificate number
Company name and registration number
Shareholder name and address
Number of shares owned
Class of shares
Issue date of shares
Amount paid (or treated as paid) on the shares



In the UK, The Companies Act 2006 directs that a company must issue a share certificate when any shares are allotted (issued). The company must issue a share certificate within two months of the issue or transfer of any shares. Companies may issue just one certificate for all the shares issued or transferred at a particular time, except if a shareholder requests separate certificates.



Sometimes a shareholder with a stock certificate can give a proxy to another person to vote the shares in question. Similarly, a shareholder without a share certificate may give a proxy to another person to allow them to vote for the shares in question. Voting rights are defined by the corporation's charter and corporate law.



A share certificate that is damaged, lost, or stolen can be reissued with a replacement certificate in respect of the same number of shares. The shareholder in such a case must return the damaged document to the company before a replacement can be issued. At this time, the shareholder may also exercise the right to be issued a single certificate or separate certificates.



Historically, share certificates were required for proof of entitlement to dividends. Each time a certificate was presented, the receipt for the payment of dividends was endorsed on the back. This way, all records of dividend payments were attached to the document.






In the digital age, investors rarely use physical share certificates and instead rely on electronic proof of ownership.


   Disadvantages of Issuing a Share Certificate  

There are several disadvantages of issuing a share certificate.



From the company's perspective, the primary drawback comes down to time and money. Issuing paper stock certificates is labor-intensive and represents a big expense. In fact, businesses usually need an entire team dedicated strictly to managing the share certificate system.



There is a tremendous amount of tedious clerical work involved in maintaining a stock certificate system. For example, all transactions, such as a merger or spinoff, can only proceed when the paper certificates are signed and mailed to the company. Also, compliance becomes much more difficult to address.



Moreover, ownership is very difficult to keep up with, as shareholders can pass the certificates to someone else without notifying the company. It all adds up to a significant amount of back-office work to verify identities in order to sign off on the transfer of ownership. In other words, the company has to keep track of the shares at all times. This is typically done through a computer system.



Finally, if a shareholder has their paper certificate lost or stolen, it means a lot of work for the company. Specifically, the business has to find the old shares, verify ownership, put a "stop" on the paper certificates, and then issue new paper certificates. Obviously, this process is also a headache for the shareholder.



The bottom line is that documenting, tracking, and verifying transactions with paper stocks is very challenging.





1606

The Dutch East India Company issued the first stock certificate in 1606. It was worth 150 Dutch Guilder.


   Special Considerations  

Today, in modern financial markets, individual investors rarely take physical possession of their share certificates. In fact, some countries, such as Sweden, have completely abolished the issue of share certificates as proof of share ownership in a company and have streamlined the process of registering owners via electronic registration.



In the United States, the Central Securities Depository (CSD) is responsible for electronically holding shares, either in certificated or uncertificated (dematerialized) form, so that ownership can be easily transferred through a book entry rather than the transfer of physical certificates.



A share certificate can be in either a registered form or bearer form. A registered share certificate is only evidence of title ownership, while a bearer share certificate, now uncommon, entitles the holder to exercise all legal rights associated with the stock.



Many share certificates, especially older and rarer specimens, have become extremely collectible for their historical context and the beauty and intricacy of their design. "Scripophily" is the collection and study of share certificates and other similar financial documents. Similar to stamp collecting or banknote collecting, a share certificate's value is dependent on its condition and age.


   What Are Share Certificates FAQs  
  What Are My Old Share Certificates Worth?  

Never just throw away your old share certificates. They can still be worth something. Here are a few steps you can do to help determine their value:



Contact your stockbroker to look up the share certificate's CUSIP numberFigure out whether the company is still publicly tradedCall the share certificate's transfer agent (the agent should be listed on the certificate)Use a paid service to research your stock's history


  What Do I Do If I Lost My Original Share Certificate?  

Even without the physical share certificate, you are still the rightful owner of the stock and have a claim to all of the rights of being a shareholder.



If your share certificate is lost, accidentally destroyed, or stolen, you should immediately contact the transfer agent and request a "stop transfer." This prevents ownership of the stock certificate from being transferred to another person. Your stockbroker might also be able to help you with this process.



You will be able to get a new replacement certificate. But typically, companies will first require you to do the following:



Make a statement of facts surrounding the loss in an affidavitPurchase an indemnity bond to protect the company against the chance that the lost certificate may be presented at a later dateRequest a new certificate before an innocent purchaser requires it


  If Stock Certificates Are Transferred on Death, What Is the Tax?  

Whether someone is transferring a stock certificate on death or electronic shares, the tax implications are the same. That is, you are not liable for taxes on the shares you inherit when someone dies. But you might be liable for the taxes if you sell them.
What Is a Share Class?  

A share class is a designation applied to a specified type of security such as common stock or mutual fund unit. Companies that have more than one class of common stock usually identify a given class with alphabetic markers, such as "Class A" shares and "Class B" shares; these carry different rights and privileges. Mutual funds also have share classes, which carry different sales charges, expense ratios, and minimum initial investment requirements.



As an investor, it's important to know what class of shares you are buying, be it common stock in a public company or units of a mutual fund.





Key Takeaways

Share class refers to different types of company or mutual fund stock; they are designated by letter or by name.Different classes of company shares often carry different privileges, such as voting rights.Different classes of mutual fund shares incur differing fees and expenses.


   The Basics of Company Share Classes  

Different share classes within the same entity typically confer different rights to the stockholder. For example, a public company may offer two classes of common stock outstanding: Class A common stock and Class B common stock. This dual-class structure is typically decided on when a company first goes public and issues stock in the primary market.



For example, a private company that is undertaking an initial public offering (IPO) may choose to issue Class A shares to its new investors, while giving the firm's existing stakeholders Class B shares. Such a dual-class structure might be instituted if the original owners of the company wanted to sell the majority of their stake in the firm, but still maintain control and make key decisions. In this case, the class B shares would typically have enhanced voting rights.



Google instituted a dual share class structure during its corporate transformation into Alphabet Inc. in 2015. The company issued an A-class share with the ticker symbol GOOGL and a C-class share with the ticker symbol GOOG. Both trades for around the same price level but the C class shares do not have voting rights. The company also issued a B class share, reserved for management and other controlling parties.


   The Basics of Mutual Fund Share Classes  

Mutual funds often offer several share classes to investors. Each class invests in the same portfolio of securities and has the same investment objectives and policies. However, their fees and expenses differ, which impact their performance. Other parameters, such as initial investment amounts, may differ as well.



The most common share class is the A share, which carries a front-end load, payable upon purchase, or upfront. These funds may seem costly in the beginning but may be less expensive if held over the long-term. These upfront sales charges range from 2% to 5.75%, depending on the type of fund and the volume purchased.



The B-share class is the opposite of the A share: It carries a back-end load, a commission paid when the investor sells it. This fee gradually declines the longer you own the mutual fund, eventually reaching zero. B shares often carry the right to be converted into A shares after seven years or so.



The C-share class charges an annual fee for the life of the fund of around 1%, called a level-load. However, C-shares do often have a contingent deferred sales charge that may be triggered if they are sold within one year.



Both B and C shares tend to pay higher expense ratios, the annual management and maintenance fee charged by the fund, than A shares do.


   Institutional Share Classes  

There are several other mutual fund share classes, with designations like I, R, N, X, and Y. These are what are known as institutional shares. Mutual funds usually make these classes available only to those with high net worth, typically more than $1 million, or to institutional investors who can make seven-figure deposits. However, 401(k) plans and other employer-sponsored retirement plans count as such institutional investors; by pooling the employees' contributions, the plan administrator is able to qualify for this class of shares. This is highly desirable: Institutional shares usually carry the lowest fees and expenses of mutual fund share classes. Because of the low expense ratios, institutional class shares invariably garner the best returns.



For example, investment company Vanguard offers three share classes. Investor shares demand $1,000 to $3,000 initial deposits and carry an average expense ratio of .18%. Admiral shares have $3,000, $50,000 or $100,000 minimums, but the expense ratio averages .11%. Finally, the Institutional shares begin at $5 million, and their average expense ratio is .05%.
What Is Share Of Wallet (SOW)?  

Share of wallet (SOW) is the dollar amount an average customer regularly devotes to a particular brand rather than to competing brands in the same product category. Companies try to maximize an existing customer's share of wallet by introducing multiple products and services to generate as much revenue as possible from each customer. A marketing campaign, for example, may have a stated goal of increasing the brand's wallet share for specific customers at the expense of its competitors.





Key Takeaways

Share of wallet is the amount an existing customer spends regularly on a particular brand rather than buying from competing brands.Companies grow wallet share by introducing multiple products and services to generate as much revenue as possible from each customer.A marketing campaign might focus on boosting spending by existing customers rather than increasing the product's overall market share.Benefits from increasing a client's share of wallet include added revenue, improved client retention, customer satisfaction, and brand loyalty.


   Understanding Share of Wallet  

Although companies actively engage in sales activities to generate new clients, maximizing the amount of revenue from every existing client is equally as important. Share of wallet focuses on a brand's own customers and seeks to maximize the dollars they spend regularly on that brand rather than on a competing one. Companies might identify their most loyal customers ranking them by the number of products they use or the amount of revenue they generate. Offering additional services to up-sell a client could prove fruitful since multi-product customers are likely to have a favorable view of the company. Also, new products could be offered to loyal customers before the public, which would add to revenue and enhance brand loyalty.



The benefits of increasing a customer's share of wallet go far beyond boosting revenue and include improving client retention, customer satisfaction, and creating a loyal, built-in market from which to offer new products in the future.


   Share of Wallet vs. Market Share  

Increasing wallet share can be a less expensive, more efficient, and therefore a more profitable strategy for boosting revenue than attempting to expand overall market share. It's important to note that wallet share and market share are two different concepts.



Market share refers to a company's percentage of total sales in its category or a specific geographic region. For example, if bank executives wanted to add new business clients, they would analyze the existing market to determine how many businesses were located in that region. From there, the management could determine what percentage of the total customers in the region bank with them. So, if the bank had 1,000 customers and there were 10,000 businesses in that region, the bank's market share would be 10% for that region. Calculating market share helps companies to determine the size of the opportunity in a region. The same analysis could be applied to a specific product or service.



Both market share and wallet share focus on growing revenue from customers. However, the growing market share focuses on attracting new clients from the competition. On the other hand, share of wallet focuses on growing revenue from existing clients by expanding the number of products being used–which might also be taken from the competition.


   Target Marketing to Grow Share of Wallet  

A campaign to increase a brand's share of wallet focuses on competing more effectively to take away some of a competitor's business. Such a campaign might begin with an attempt to identify exactly what a customer finds at a competitor. It may be a broad issue of quality, price, or convenience, but it may be very specific. A competing grocer might have more vegan selections or superior fresh produce. It may have faster checkout or free delivery.



Increasing the share of wallet can mean adopting a competitor's best ideas. It also might mean identifying goods or services that are a logical extension of the business but can increase its share of wallet by supplanting rivals. The Wegmans supermarket chain carries all of the usual grocery items, but its vast ready-to-eat section might be its true share-of-wallet extender. Its selections compete against every takeout restaurant between its store and the customer's home.






Increasing market share is an increase in a brand's total sales within its category while increasing share of wallet is additional revenue from existing customers.


   Examples of Share of Wallet  

Let's say as an example when McDonald's added a breakfast menu, some customers may have switched their morning routine and started going to McDonald's restaurants rather than to Dunkin' Donuts. McDonald's had captured a few more of their existing customers' dollars spent on fast food as well as some new clients. As a result, Dunkin' Donuts might respond by expanding its breakfast menu to include egg sandwiches, possibly in order to lure back some of those breakfast customers.



Another example where share of wallet is in practice today is in the banking industry. A bank's executive management might step up its cross-selling efforts, which is selling complementary products and services to existing clients. A wealth management client might get referred to an in-house mortgage representative when the customer is in the market for a new home. A checking account customer might be encouraged to apply for a car loan at the bank. The bank is not gaining new customers through this practice but is increasing its share of wallet among current customers. 



In both examples, an increase in spending and revenue from each existing customer base occurred as opposed to money being spent at a competitor.
What Is a Share Repurchase?  

A share repurchase is a transaction whereby a company buys back its own shares from the marketplace. A company might buy back its shares because management considers them undervalued. The company buys shares directly from the market or offers its shareholders the option of tendering their shares directly to the company at a fixed price.



Repurchases reduce the number of outstanding shares, which is something that investors often feel will drive up share prices. This assumes demand for the shares will not be diminished by the action.





Key Takeaways

A share repurchase or buyback is a decision by a company to buy back its own shares from the marketplace.A company might buy back its shares to boost the value of the stock and to improve the financial statements.Companies tend to repurchase shares when they have cash on hand and the stock market is on an upswing.There is a risk that the stock price could fall after a share repurchase.Apple is one of the biggest repurchasers of its stock.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   How Share Repurchases Work  

Share repurchases take place when companies decide to buy back their stock. Companies that repurchase their stock from the open market or directly from investors. Also known as a share buyback, it is commonly done to achieve:



An increase in equity value
A boost in the company's financial position 
Consolidation



Because a share repurchase reduces the number of shares outstanding, it increases earnings per share (EPS). A higher EPS elevates the market value of the remaining shares. After repurchase, the shares are canceled or held as treasury shares, so they are no longer held publicly and are not outstanding.



A share repurchase impacts a company's financial statements in various ways. A share repurchase reduces a company's available cash, which is then reflected on the balance sheet as a reduction by the amount the company spent on the buyback.



At the same time, the share repurchase reduces shareholders' equity by the same amount on the liabilities side of the balance sheet. Investors interested in finding out how much a company has spent on share repurchases can find the information in their quarterly earnings reports.






   Reasons for Share Repurchases  

A share repurchase reduces the total assets of the business so that its return on assets, return on equity, and other metrics improve when compared to not repurchasing shares. Reducing the number of shares means earnings per share (EPS) can grow more quickly as revenue and cash flow increase.



If the business pays out the same amount of total money to shareholders annually in dividends and the total number of shares decreases, each shareholder receives a larger annual dividend. If the corporation grows its earnings and its total dividend payout, decreasing the total number of shares further increases the dividend growth. Shareholders expect a corporation paying regular dividends will continue doing so.



In some cases, a buyback can hide a slightly declining net income. If the share repurchase reduces the shares outstanding to a greater extent than the fall in net income, the EPS will rise irrespective of the financial state of the business.



Share repurchases fill the gap between excess capital and dividends so that the business returns more to shareholders without locking into a pattern. For example, assume the corporation wants to return 75% of its earnings to shareholders and keep its dividend payout ratio at 50%. The company returns the other 25% in the form of share repurchases to complement the dividend.






New provisions were put into place to prevent companies from trying to boost their stock price to benefit corporate executives. The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, which was signed by President Joe Biden on Aug. 16, 2022, includes an excise tax of 1% on share buybacks of $1 million or more made after Dec. 31, 2022. Any new public or employee stock issues will not count.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Share Repurchases  
  Advantages  

A share repurchase shows the corporation believes its shares are undervalued and is an efficient method of putting money back in shareholders’ pockets.



The share repurchase reduces the number of existing shares, making each worth a greater percentage of the corporation.



The stock’s EPS increases, which means the price-to-earnings ratio (P/E) will decrease, assuming the stock price remains the same. Mathematically, the value of the shares hasn’t changed, but the lower P/E ratio could make it appear that the share price represents a better value, thus making the stock more attractive to potential investors.


  Disadvantages  

A criticism of buybacks is that they are often ill-timed. A company will buy back shares when it has plenty of cash or during a period of financial health for the company and the stock market.



The stock price of a company is likely to be high at such times, and the price might drop after a buyback. A drop in the stock price can imply that the company is not so healthy after all.



A share repurchase can also give investors the impression that the corporation does not have other profitable opportunities for growth, which is an issue for growth investors looking for revenue and profit increases. A corporation is not obligated to repurchase shares due to changes in the marketplace or economy.



Repurchasing shares puts a business in a precarious situation if the economy takes a downturn or the corporation faces financial obligations that it cannot meet.





Pros

Shows the company believes its shares are undervalued
increases share value because it reduces number of shares
Makes stock more attractive to potential investors



Cons

Can be ill-timed
May lead to drop in price, which means company isn't healthy
Market may believe the company doesn't have growth opportunities
Can create challenges during economic downturn





   Real-World Example of a Share Repurchase  

There are many examples of share repurchases or buybacks in the marketplace. Let's take a look at Apple (AAPL). According to a CNBC report, the company spent more than $467 billion in share buybacks since 2012. In fact, it was reportedly the biggest repurchaser of its own stock among all of the companies in the S&P 500 and spent the most among some of its peers. The company spent $85.5 billion to buy back its stock during the 2021 fiscal year. This was in addition to the $14.5 billion it spent on dividends during the same period.




Is there a Tax on Stock BuyBacks?
The Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) of 2022 introduced a 1% excise tax on share repurchases of over $1 million, of any US corporation trading on an established exchange. The tax applies if more than $1 million of stock is purchased over the course of the tax year.




Which US Corporation had the Largest Buyback of 2022?
Apple (AAPL) at $21.7 Billion in stock buybacks in Q2 2022.




Do I Have to Sell my Shares During a Buyback?
No, you are not required to sell your share back to the company.


   The Bottom Line  

Corporations often buyback their shares. There are many reasons they will do this. There is debate about whether stock buybacks are the best use of a corporations excess capital. Like most other practices, there are pros and cons as this article has shown.
What Is a Shareholder?  

A shareholder is a person, company, or institution that owns at least one share of a company’s stock or in a mutual fund. Shareholders essentially own the company, which comes with certain rights and responsibilities. This type of ownership allows them to reap the benefits of a business’s success.



These rewards come in the form of increased stock valuations or financial profits distributed as dividends. Conversely, when a company loses money, the share price invariably drops, which can cause shareholders to lose money or suffer declines in their portfolios.





Key Takeaways

A shareholder is any person, company, or institution that owns shares in a company’s stock.A company shareholder can hold as little as one share.Shareholders are subject to capital gains (or losses) and/or dividend payments as residual claimants on a firm’s profits.Shareholders also enjoy certain rights such as voting at shareholder meetings to approve the members of the board of directors, dividend distributions, or mergers.In the case of bankruptcy, shareholders can lose up to their entire investment.












Yurle Villegas / Investopedia


   Understanding Shareholders  

As noted above, a shareholder is an entity that owns one or more shares in a company’s stock or mutual fund. Being a shareholder (or a stockholder, as they’re also often called) comes with certain rights and responsibilities. Along with sharing in the overall financial success, a shareholder is also allowed to vote on certain issues that affect the company or fund in which they hold shares.



A single shareholder who owns and controls more than 50% of a company’s outstanding shares is called a majority shareholder. In comparison, those who hold less than 50% of a company’s stock are classified as minority shareholders.



Most majority shareholders are company founders. In older, more established companies, majority shareholders are frequently related to company founders. In either case, these shareholders wield considerable power to influence critical operational decisions, including replacing board members and C-level executives like chief executive officers (CEOs) and other senior personnel when they control more than half of the voting interest. That’s why many companies often avoid having majority shareholders among their ranks.



Unlike the owners of sole proprietorships or partnerships, corporate shareholders are not personally liable for the company’s debts and other financial obligations. Therefore, if a company becomes insolvent, its creditors cannot target a shareholder’s personal assets.






Shareholders are entitled to collect proceeds left over after a company liquidates its assets. However, creditors, bondholders, and preferred stockholders have precedence over common stockholders, who may be left with nothing after all the debts are paid.


   Special Considerations  

There are a few things that people need to consider when it comes to being a shareholder. This includes the rights and responsibilities involved with being a shareholder and the tax implications.


  Shareholder Rights  

According to a corporation’s charter and bylaws, shareholders traditionally enjoy the following rights:



The right to inspect the company’s books and records
The power to sue the corporation for the misdeeds of its directors and/or officers
The right to vote on key corporate matters, such as naming board directors and deciding whether or not to green-light potential mergers
The entitlement to receive dividends
The right to attend annual meetings, either in person or via conference calls
The right to vote on critical matters by proxy, either through mail-in ballots or online voting platforms if they’re unable to attend voting meetings in person
The right to claim a proportionate allocation of proceeds if a company liquidates its assets


  Shareholders and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS)  

It is important to note that if you are a shareholder, any gains you make as such should be reported as income (or losses) on your personal tax return. Keep in mind that this rule applies to shareholders of S corporations. These are typically small-size to midsize businesses that have fewer than 100 shareholders. The corporation’s structure is such that the income earned by the business may be passed to shareholders. This includes any other benefits, such as credits/deductions and losses.



According to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), “Shareholders of S corporations report the flow-through of income and losses on their personal tax returns and are assessed tax at their individual income tax rates. This allows S corporations to avoid double taxation on the corporate income. S corporations are responsible for tax on certain built-in gains and passive income at the entity level.”



This is opposed to shareholders of C corporations, who are subject to double taxation. Profits within this business structure are taxed at the corporate level and at the personal level for shareholders.






It is a common myth that corporations are required to maximize shareholder value. This may be the goal of a firm’s management or directors, but it is not a legal duty.


   Types of Shareholders  

Many companies issue two types of stock: common and preferred. Common stock is more prevalent than preferred stock, and is what ordinary investors typically buy in the stock market.



Generally, common stockholders enjoy voting rights, but preferred stockholders do not. However, preferred stockholders have a priority claim to dividends. Furthermore, the dividends paid to preferred stockholders are generally more significant than those paid to common stockholders.




What are the main types of shareholders?
A majority shareholder owns and controls more than 50% of a company’s outstanding shares. This type of shareholder is often company founders or their descendants. Minority shareholders hold less than 50% of a company’s stock, even as little as one share.




What are some key shareholder rights?
Shareholders have the right to inspect the company’s books and records, the power to sue the corporation for the misdeeds of its directors and/or officers, and the right to vote on critical corporate matters, such as naming board directors. In addition, they have the right to decide whether or not to green-light potential mergers, the right to receive dividends, the right to attend annual meetings, the right to vote on crucial matters by proxy, and the right to claim a proportionate allocation of proceeds if a company liquidates its assets.




What is the difference between preferred and common shareholders?
The main difference between preferred and common shareholders is that the former typically has no voting rights, while the latter does. However, preferred shareholders have a priority claim to income, meaning that they are paid dividends before common shareholders. Common shareholders are last in line regarding company assets, which means that they will be paid out after creditors, bondholders, and preferred shareholders.


   The Bottom Line  

Shareholders, or stockholders, are the owners of a company's outstanding shares, which represents a residual portion of the corporation's assets and earnings as well as a percentage of the company's voting power. Stockholders have a right to participate in the distribution of corporate assets in the form of dividends (if they are paid) and possibly through the sale of their holdings at a profit on the stock market. Individuals may become shareholders by buying common stock in corporations through brokers or directly from the company (if they offer a direct investment plan). In many countries, corporations may also offer employee stock options as a benefit for workers. If a company goes bankrupt, however, common shareholders are last in line to be repaid (behind creditors and preferred shareholders). Preferred shareholders hold preferred stock, which often pays a high and steady dividend but comes with no voting rights. Preferred shares are therefore sometimes thought of as a sort of debt-equity hybrid security.
What Is a Shareholder Activist?  

A shareholder activist is a person who attempts to use their rights as a shareholder of a publicly-traded corporation to bring about change within or for the corporation.





Key Takeaways

Shareholder activists are shareholders of companies who bring about change within or for a corporation.These changes span a vast range, from environmental concerns to governance to profit distribution to the internal culture and business model of a company.Shareholder activists typically buy up a minority stake in a company and, subsequently, employ a variety of tactics, from media pressure to litigation threats, to force a conversation and bring about change.


   Understanding a Shareholder Activist  

Shareholder activism is a way that shareholders can influence a corporation's behavior by exercising their rights as partial owners. Classes of shares allow for distinct voting privileges, in addition to dividend entitlements.



While minority shareholders don't run the day-to-day operations, several ways exist for them to influence a company’s board of directors and executive management actions. These methods can range from dialogue with managers to formal proposals, which are voted on by all shareholders at a company's annual meeting.



Shareholder activists also employ a variety of offensive tactics to force changes. For example, they might make strategic use of media channels in order to publicize their demands and prompt greater pressure from other shareholders. They may also threaten companies with lawsuits if they are not allowed to have their say.



Some of the issues addressed by shareholder activists are for social change, requiring divestment from politically sensitive parts of the world, for example, greater support of workers' rights (sweatshops) and/or more accountability for environmental degradation.



But the term can also refer to investors who believe that a company's management is doing a poor job. This class of activist investors often attempts to gain control of the company and replace management or force a major corporate change.


   Use of Shareholder Activism  

Over the years, shareholder activism has increased in total capital deployed as well as the number of campaigns mounted. According to the Harvard Law School Forum on Corporate Governance, 2018 was a record year for shareholder activists. Approximately $65 billion in capital was deployed throughout the year, with an increase in initiated campaigns to 250, and an increase in the number of investors from 110 in 2017 to 130 in 2018.﻿﻿



These figures represent a "modest" increase in figures from the previous year, another one for the record books. Shareholder activists are also reaching out across borders to conduct campaigns. The same report noted that 60% of campaigns were aimed at U.S. companies while 25% aimed at European companies and 10% targeted Asian Pacific companies.﻿﻿


   Examples of Shareholder Activists  

Carl Icahn is one of the financial industry’s most notable activist shareholders, along with his work as a businessman, traditional investor, and philanthropist. In the 1980s, Mr. Icahn developed a strong reputation as a “corporate raider.”



This stemmed from his hostile takeover of TWA airline in 1985, among other milestones. Along with Texaco and American Airlines, TWA was one of the nation’s largest airlines at the time. Mr. Icahn successfully took over the company, steering it away from the brink of bankruptcy over a multi-year period.



Similarly, Bill Ackman considers himself an activist investor (although some would deem him primarily a contrarian investor). One of Ackman’s most high-profile positions was his short position and issuance of an enormous public relations campaign against the company Herbalife in 2012.



In contrast with Mr. Icahn and Mr. Ackman, many hedge funds have been recently pushing for change, related to their partners’ environmental, social, and governance (ESG) concerns. Trian Partners, Blue Harbour Group, Red Mountain Capital Partners, and ValueAct Capital are among the top funds that have prioritized ESG in various forms.



Some of these funds are being pushed by their own investors, who seek to own firms that demonstrate a commitment to corporate social responsibility. This responsibility can take the form of environmental concerns such as climate change or governance concerns, such as boardroom diversity.



For example, the NYC Pension Fund began a Boardroom Accountability Project about board diversity that requires companies to disclose the race, gender, and skills of their directors.
What Is Shareholder Equity (SE)?  

Shareholder equity (SE) is a company's net worth and it is equal to the total dollar amount that would be returned to the shareholders if the company must be liquidated and all its debts are paid off. Thus, shareholder equity is equal to a company's total assets minus its total liabilities.



SE is a number that stock investors and analysts look at when they're evaluating a company's overall financial health. It helps them to judge the quality of the company's financial ratios, providing them with the tools to make better investment decisions.



Retained earnings are part of shareholder equity as is any capital invested in the company.





Key Takeaways

Shareholder equity is the dollar worth of a company to its owners after subtracting all of its liabilities from its assets.You can calculate shareholder equity by adding together the numbers on a company's balance sheet for assets and liabilities.Positive shareholder equity means the company has at least enough assets to cover its liabilities.The number for retained earnings is part of shareholder equity. This is the percentage of net earnings that is not paid to shareholders as dividends.Shareholder equity gives analysts and investors a clearer picture of the financial health of a company.












Investopedia / Jake Shi


   Understanding Shareholder Equity (SE)  

Shareholder equity represents the total amount of capital in a company that is directly linked to its owners. That is, it is the dollar value of the company to its owners.
If the company ever needs to be liquidated, SE is the amount of money that would be returned to these owners after all other debts are satisfied.
The Formula for Calculating SE
All the information needed to compute a company's shareholder equity is available on its balance sheet.
You can figure out the total SE of a company using the following formula:





S


h


a


r


e


h


o


l


d


e


r


E


q


u


i


t


y


=


T


o


t


a


l


A


s


s


e


t


s


−


T


o


t


a


l


L


i


a


b


i


l


i


t


i


e


s



Shareholder Equity = Total Assets - Total Liabilities


ShareholderEquity=TotalAssets−TotalLiabilities
This formula is also known as the accounting equation or the balance sheet equation. The balance sheet holds the data needed for the accounting equation. So, the steps to calculate shareholder equity are as follows:

Locate the company's total assets on the balance sheet for the period.
Total all liabilities, which should be a separate listing on the balance sheet.
Locate the total shareholder's equity and add the number to the total liabilities.
Total assets will equal the sum of liabilities and total shareholder equity.

Current and Long-Term Assets
Total assets include current and noncurrent assets. Current assets include cash and anything that can be converted to cash within a year, such as accounts receivable and inventory.
Long-term assets are possessions that cannot reliably be converted to cash or consumed within a year. They include investments; property, plant, and equipment (PPE), and intangibles such as patents.
Current and Long-Term Liabilities
Total liabilities consist of current and long-term liabilities.
Current liabilities are debts typically due for repayment within one year. This includes accounts payable (AP) and any outstanding taxes.
Long-term liabilities are obligations that are due for repayment over periods longer than one year. Companies may have bonds payable, leases, and pension obligations under this category.


   Positive vs. Negative Shareholder Equity  

SE can be either negative or positive. Negative SE means a company's liabilities exceed its assets. If it's positive, the company has enough assets to cover its liabilities.



If a company's shareholder equity remains negative, it is considered to be balance sheet insolvency. 


  Understanding Retained Earnings  

Retained earnings are part of shareholder equity. This is the percentage of net earnings that is not paid to shareholders as dividends. 



Retained earnings should not be confused with cash or other liquid assets. The retained earnings are used primarily for the expenses of doing business and for the expansion of the business.



Moreover, liquidation value is not the same as shareholder equity. During a liquidation process, the value of physical assets is reduced and there are other extraordinary conditions that make the two numbers incompatible.



Many investors view companies with negative shareholder equity as risky or unsafe investments. But shareholder equity alone is not a definitive indicator of a company's financial health. If used in conjunction with other tools and metrics, the investor can accurately analyze the health of an organization.






The number of shares issued and outstanding is a more relevant measure than shareholder equity for certain purposes, such as dividends and earnings per share (EPS). This measure excludes Treasury shares, which are stock shares owned by the company itself.


   Examples of Shareholder Equity  

Here's a hypothetical example to show how shareholder equity works. Let's assume that ABC Company has total assets of $2.6 million and total liabilities of $920,000. In this case, ABC Company's shareholder equity is $1.68 million.


  Real-World Examples  

Now let's take a look at a few real-world examples, notably the world's two largest soft drink companies:



PepsiCo (PEP) shareholder equity for the quarter ending March 31, 2023, was $17.175 billion. That was a 6.25% decline year-over-year. This figure represents shareholder equity for common stockholders. 
Coca-Cola Co., Pepsi's bigger rival, reported shareholder equity for the same period at $26.868 billion. That's a 0.1% increase year-over-year.




What Can Shareholder Equity Tell You?
Savvy investors look beyond today's market prices when they consider buying or selling stock. Shareholder equity helps them determine the real return that a company is generating for its investors versus the total amount that those investors have paid for its stock.For example, a ratio like return on equity (ROE), which is a company's net income divided by its shareholder equity, is used to measure how well a company's management is using its equity from investors to generate profits.Positive shareholder equity means the company has enough assets to cover its liabilities. Negative shareholder equity means that the company's liabilities exceed its assets.




What Are the Components of Shareholder Equity?
Aside from stock (common, preferred, and treasury) components, the SE statement includes retained earnings, unrealized gains and losses, and contributed (additional paid-up) capital.The retained earnings portion reflects the percentage of net earnings that were not paid to shareholders as dividends and should not be confused with cash or other liquid assets.All of these numbers should be listed on the company's earnings reports.




How Is Shareholder Equity Calculated?
Shareholder equity is the difference between a firm's total assets and total liabilities. This equation is known as a balance sheet equation because all of the relevant information can be gleaned from the balance sheet.Take the equity at the onset of the accounting period, add or subtract any equity infusions (such as adding cash from shares issued or subtracting cash used for treasury purchases), add net income, subtract all cash dividends paid out and any net losses, and what you have left is the shareholder equity for that period.


   The Bottom Line  

There's a cautionary line that appears in every financial prospectus: "Past returns are no guarantee of future performance."



Successful investors look well beyond today's stock price or this year's price movement when they consider whether to buy or sell.



Shareholder equity is one of the important numbers embedded in the financial reports of public companies that can help investors come to a sound conclusion about the real value of a company.
What Is the Shareholder Equity Ratio?  

The shareholder equity ratio indicates how much of a company's assets have been generated by issuing equity shares rather than by taking on debt. The lower the ratio result, the more debt a company has used to pay for its assets. It also shows how much shareholders might receive in the event that the company is forced into liquidation.



The shareholder equity ratio is expressed as a percentage and calculated by dividing total shareholders' equity by the total assets of the company. The result represents the amount of the assets on which shareholders have a residual claim. The figures used to calculate the ratio are recorded on the company balance sheet.





Key Takeaways

The shareholder equity ratio shows how much of a company's assets are funded by issuing stock rather than borrowing money.The closer a firm's ratio result is to 100%, the more assets it has financed with stock rather than debt.The ratio is an indicator of how financially stable the company may be in the long run.












Investopedia / Nez Riaz


   The Formula for the Shareholder Equity Ratio Is  

﻿




Shareholder Equity Ratio


=




Total Shareholder Equity


Total Assets





\text{Shareholder Equity Ratio} = \dfrac{\text{Total Shareholder Equity}}{\text{Total Assets}}


Shareholder Equity Ratio=Total AssetsTotal Shareholder Equity​﻿﻿



Total shareholders' equity comes from the balance sheet, following the accounting equation:



﻿














SE


=


A


−


L
















where:
















S


E


=


Shareholders’ Equity
















A


=


Assets
















L


=


Liabilities







\begin{aligned} &\text{SE} = \text{A} - \text{L}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &SE = \text{Shareholders' Equity}\\ &A = \text{Assets}\\ &L = \text{Liabilities} \end{aligned}


​SE=A−Lwhere:SE=Shareholders’ EquityA=AssetsL=Liabilities​﻿﻿


   What Does the Shareholder Equity Ratio Tell You?  

If a company sold all of its assets for cash and paid off all of its liabilities, any remaining cash equals the firm's equity. A company's shareholders' equity is the sum of its common stock value, additional paid-in capital, and retained earnings. The sum of these parts is considered to be the true value of a business.



When a company's shareholder equity ratio approaches 100%, it means that the company has financed almost all of its assets with equity capital instead of taking on debt. Equity capital, however, has some drawbacks in comparison with debt financing. It tends to be more expensive than debt, and it requires some dilution of ownership and giving voting rights to new shareholders.






The shareholder equity ratio is most meaningful in comparison with the company's peers or competitors in the same sector. Each industry has its own standard or normal level of shareholders' equity to assets.


   Example of the Shareholder Equity Ratio   

Say that you're considering investing in ABC Widgets, Inc. and want to understand its financial strength and overall debt situation. You start by calculating its shareholder-equity ratio. A year-end number is arrived at by using return on equity (ROE) calculation. You can use also get a snapshot idea of profitability using return on average equity (ROAE).



From the company's balance sheet, you see that it has total assets of $3.0 million, total liabilities of $750,000, and total shareholders' equity of $2.25 million. Calculate the ratio as follows:



Shareholders' equity ratio = $2,250,000 / 3,000,000 = .75, or 75%



This tells you that ABC Widgets has financed 75% of its assets with shareholder equity, meaning that only 25% is funded by debt.



In other words, if ABC Widgets liquidated all of its assets to pay off its debt, the shareholders would retain 75% of the company's financial resources.


   When a Company Liquidates  

If a business chooses to liquidate, all of the company assets are sold and its creditors and shareholders have claims on its assets. Secured creditors have the first priority because their debts were collateralized with assets that can now be sold in order to repay them.



Other creditors, including suppliers, bondholders, and preferred shareholders, are repaid before common shareholders.



A low level of debt means that shareholders are more likely to receive some repayment during a liquidation. However, there have been many cases in which the assets were exhausted before shareholders got a penny.
What Is Shareholder Value?  

Shareholder value is the value delivered to the equity owners of a corporation, thanks to management’s ability to increase sales, earnings, and free cash flow, which leads to an increase in dividends and capital gains for shareholders.



A company’s shareholder value depends on strategic decisions that its board of directors and senior management make, including the ability to make wise investments and generate a healthy return on invested capital. If this value is created, particularly over the long term, then the share price increases and the company can pay larger cash dividends to shareholders. Mergers, in particular, tend to cause a large increase in shareholder value.



Shareholder value can become a hot-button issue for corporations, as the creation of wealth for shareholders does not always or equally translate to value for the corporation’s employees or customers.





Key Takeaways

Shareholder value is the value given to stockholders in a company based on the firm’s ability to sustain and grow profits over time.Increasing shareholder value also increases the total amount in the stockholders’ equity section of the balance sheet. A well-managed firm maximizes the use of its assets.The maxim about increasing shareholder value is, in fact, a myth or misconception, as there exists no legal duty for management to maximize corporate profits.


   Understanding Shareholder Value  

Increasing shareholder value also increases the total amount in the stockholders’ equity section of the balance sheet. The balance sheet formula is:



Assets, minus liabilities, equal stockholders’ equity.Stockholders’ equity includes retained earnings, or the sum of a company’s net income, minus cash dividends since inception.


   How Asset Use Drives Value  

Companies raise capital to buy assets and use those assets to generate sales or invest in new projects while expecting a positive return. A well-managed company maximizes the use of its assets so that the firm can operate with a smaller investment in assets.



Assume, for example, that a plumbing company uses a truck and equipment to complete residential work, and the total cost of these assets is $50,000. The more sales the plumbing firm can generate using the truck and the equipment, the more shareholder value the business creates. Valuable companies are those that can increase earnings with the same dollar amount of assets.


   Instances When Cash Flow Raises Value  

Generating sufficient cash inflows to operate the business is also an important indicator of shareholder value, because the company can operate and increase sales without the need to borrow money or issue more stock. Firms can increase cash flow by quickly converting inventory and accounts receivable into cash collections.



The rate of cash collection is measured by turnover ratios; companies attempt to increase sales without the need to carry more inventory or increase the average dollar amount of receivables. A high rate of both inventory turnover and accounts-receivable turnover increases shareholder value.


   Factoring in Earnings Per Share  

If management makes decisions that increase net income each year, the company can either pay a larger cash dividend or retain earnings for use in the business. A company’s earnings per share (EPS) is defined as earnings available to common shareholders, divided by common stock shares outstanding; the ratio is a key indicator of a firm’s shareholder value. When a company can increase earnings, the ratio increases and investors view the company as more valuable.


   What Is the Shareholder Value Maximization Myth?  

It is commonly understood that corporate directors and management have a duty to maximize shareholder value, especially for publicly traded companies. However, legal rulings suggest that this commonly held belief is, in fact, a myth: There is actually no legal duty to maximize profits while managing a corporation.



The idea can be traced in large part to the oversize effects of a single outdated and widely misunderstood ruling by the Michigan Supreme Court in its 1919 decision in Dodge v. Ford Motor Co., which was about the legal duty of a controlling majority shareholder with respect to a minority shareholder and not about maximizing shareholder value. Legal and organizational scholars, such as Cornell University law professor Lynn A. Stout and Paris’ Sciences Po Law School professor Jean-Philippe Robé, who is a member of the bar in Paris and New York, have elaborated on this misconception.




What is a balance sheet?
The term “balance sheet” refers to a financial statement that reports a company’s assets, liabilities, and shareholder equity at a specific time. Balance sheets provide the basis for computing rates of return for investors and evaluating a company’s capital structure.In short, the balance sheet is a financial statement that provides a snapshot of what a company owns and owes, as well as the amount invested by shareholders. Balance sheets can be used with other important financial statements to conduct fundamental analyses or calculate financial ratios.




What is a capital gain?
Capital gain refers to the increase in the value of a capital asset when it is sold. Put simply, a capital gain occurs when you sell an asset for more than what you originally paid for it.Almost any type of asset you own is a capital asset. This can include a type of investment (like a stock, bond, or real estate) or something purchased for personal use (like furniture or a boat). Capital gains are realized when you sell an asset by subtracting the original purchase price from the sale price. In certain circumstances, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) taxes individuals on capital gains.




What’s the difference between tangible and intangible assets?
There are two types of asset categories: tangible and intangible.Tangible assets are typically physical assets or property owned by a company, such as computer equipment. Tangible assets are the main type of assets that companies use to produce their product and service.Intangible assets don’t physically exist, yet they have a monetary value since they represent potential revenue. A type of intangible asset could be a copyright to a song. The record company that owns the copyright would get paid a royalty each time the song is played.There are various types of assets that could be considered tangible or intangible, some of which are short-term or long-term assets.


   The Bottom Line  

A company’s shareholder value depends on strategic decisions made by its board of directors and senior management, including the ability to make sound investments and generate a robust return on invested capital. If this value is created, particularly over the long term, then the share price increases and the company can pay larger cash dividends to shareholders. Mergers, in particular, tend to cause a substantial increase in shareholder value.



Shareholder value can become a hot-button issue for corporations, as the creation of wealth for shareholders does not always or equally translate to value for the corporation’s employees or customers.
What Is Shareholder Value Added (SVA)?  

Shareholder value added (SVA) is a measure of the operating profits that a company has produced in excess of its funding costs, or cost of capital. The basic calculation is net operating profit after tax (NOPAT) minus the cost of capital, which is based on the company's weighted average cost of capital.





Key Takeaways

Shareholder value added (SVA) is a measure of the operating profits that a company has produced in excess of its funding costs, or cost of capital.The SVA formula uses NOPAT, which is based on operating profits and excludes the tax savings that result from the use of debt.A prime disadvantage of shareholder value added is that it is difficult to calculate for privately held companies.


   How Shareholder Value Added (SVA) Works  

Some value investors use SVA as a tool to judge the corporation's profitability and management efficacy. This line of thinking runs congruent with value-based management, which assumes that the foremost consideration of a corporation should be to maximize economic value for its shareholders.



Shareholder value is created when a company's profits exceed its costs. But there is more than one way to calculate this. Net profit is a rough measure of shareholder value added, but it does not take into account funding costs or the cost of capital. Shareholder value added (SVA) shows the income that a company has earned in excess of its funding costs.



Shareholder value added has a number of advantages. The SVA formula uses NOPAT, which is based on operating profits and excludes the tax savings that result from the use of debt. This removes the effect of financing decisions on profits and allows for an apples-to-apples comparison of companies regardless of their financing method.



NOPAT also excludes extraordinary items and is thus a more precise measure than the net profit of a company's ability to generate profits from its normal operations. Extraordinary items include restructuring costs and other one-time expenses that may temporarily affect a company's profits.


   Formula for Shareholder Value Added (SVA)  
















SVA


=


NOPAT


−


CC
















where:
















NOPAT


=


Net operating profit after tax
















CC


=


Cost of capital







\begin{aligned} &\text{SVA} = \text{NOPAT} - \text{CC} \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{NOPAT} = \text{Net operating profit after tax} \\ &\text{CC} = \text{Cost of capital} \\ \end{aligned}


​SVA=NOPAT−CCwhere:NOPAT=Net operating profit after taxCC=Cost of capital​


   Shareholder Value Added in Value Investing  

The popularity of SVA reached a peak during the 1980s as corporate managers and boards of directors came under scrutiny for focusing on personal or company gains rather than focusing on shareholders. SVA is no longer held in such high regard by the investment community.



Value investors who focus on SVA are more concerned with generating short-term returns above the market average than with longer-term returns. This trade-off is implicit in the SVA model, which punishes companies for incurring capital costs in an attempt to expand business operations. Critics counter that these value investors are driving companies towards making shortsighted decisions rather than focusing on satisfying their customers.



In a sense, investors who focus on SVA are often actually looking for cash value added (CVA). Companies that generate a lot of cash through their operations can pay higher dividends or show greater short-term profits. This is only a proximate effect of actual productivity or wealth creation, however.



Real investments often require intense capital expenditures and short-term losses. This is especially true in the current digital age driven by innovation and heavy investment in technology and experimentation. A new concept called blitz-scaling could be viewed as the opposite of SVA in that it does not give any attention to short-term losses and all the attention to long-term value creation.



Stockholders always want their corporations to maximize returns, pay dividends, and show profits. Value investors can risk becoming shortsighted by focusing only on SVA and not considering the long-term implications of too little reinvestment.


   Limitations of Shareholder Value Added  

A prime disadvantage of shareholder value added is that it is difficult to calculate for privately held companies. SVA requires calculating the cost of capital, including the cost of equity. This is difficult for companies that are privately held.
What Is a Shareholders' Agreement?  

A shareholders' agreement, also called a stockholders' agreement, is an arrangement among shareholders that describes how a company should be operated and outlines shareholders' rights and obligations. The agreement also includes information on the management of the company and privileges and protection of shareholders.





Key Takeaways

A shareholders' agreement is an arrangement among a company's shareholders that describes how the company should be operated and outlines shareholders' rights and obligations.The shareholders' agreement is intended to make sure that shareholders are treated fairly and that their rights are protected.It also allows shareholders to make decisions about what outside parties may become future shareholders and provides safeguards for minority positions.


   The Basics of a Shareholders' Agreement  

The shareholders' agreement is intended to ensure that shareholders are treated fairly and their rights are protected. The agreement includes sections outlining the fair and legitimate pricing of shares (particularly when sold). It also allows shareholders to make decisions about what outside parties may become future shareholders and provides safeguards for minority positions.



A shareholders' agreement includes a date; often the number of shares issued; a capitalization table that outlines shareholders and their percentage ownership; any restrictions on transferring shares; pre-emptive rights for current shareholders to purchase shares to maintain ownership percentages (for example, in the event of a new issue); and details on payments in the event of a company sale.



Shareholder agreements differ from company bylaws. Bylaws work in conjunction with a company's articles of incorporation to form the legal backbone of the business and govern its operations. A shareholder agreement, on the other hand, is optional. This document is often by and for shareholders, outlining certain rights and obligations. It can be most helpful when a corporation has a small number of active shareholders.


   Example of a Shareholders Agreement for an Entrepreneurial Venture  

Many entrepreneurs creating startup companies will want to draft a shareholders' agreement for initial parties. This is to ensure clarification of what parties originally intended. If disputes arise as the company matures and changes, a written agreement can help resolve issues by serving as a reference point.



Entrepreneurs may also want to include who can be a shareholder, what happens if a shareholder no longer has the capacity to actively own their shares (e.g. becomes disabled, passes away, resigns, or is fired), and who is eligible to be a board member.



As with all shareholder agreements, an agreement for a startup will often include the following sections:



A preamble, identifying the parties (e.g. a company and its shareholders)A list of recitals (rationale and goals for the agreement)Details of optional versus mandatory buying-back of shares by the company in the event that a shareholder gives theirs upA right of first refusal clause, detailing how the company has the right to purchase a selling shareholder's securities prior to them selling to an outside partyNotation of a fair price for shares, either re-calculated annually or via a formulaA potential description of an insurance policy
What Are Shares?  

Shares are units of ownership in a company. The terms "shares" and "stocks" are often used interchangeably, but they represent a company differently. While this may seem confusing, it is a matter of how you're talking about a company and how much ownership you have in it. For example, say XYZ company issued stock and you purchased 10 shares of it. If each share represents 1% of ownership, you own 10% of the company. The company issued stock, and you bought shares of it.



Another way to think of it is that you purchase shares of a stock, you don't buy stock. Stock is a more general term, used to refer to the financial instruments a company issues, while shares are what you actually buy.





Key Takeaways

Shares represent units of ownership in a corporation or financial asset owned by investors who exchange capital in return for these units.Common stock shares enable voting rights and possible returns through price appreciation and dividends.Preferred stock shares do not offer price appreciation but can be redeemed at an attractive price and offer regular dividends.Many companies issue shares, but only the shares of publicly traded companies are found on stock exchanges.












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   Understanding Shares  

When establishing a corporation, owners may choose to issue stock to raise capital. Companies then divide their stock into shares, which are sold to investors. These investors are generally investment banks or brokers that, in turn, sell the shares to other investors individually or through instruments like a mutual fund or exchange-traded fund.



Shares are the equivalent of ownership in a corporation. Because they represent ownership, not debt, there is no legal obligation for the company to reimburse the shareholders if something happens to the business.



However, some companies may distribute profits to shareholders through dividends. Others may not, deciding to use all profits to operate, grow, and secure their future.






Founders, partners, or specific employees like executives generally own shares of privately held companies or partnerships.


  How Shares are Issued and Regulated  

Generally, a company’s board of directors is given a specific number of shares that can be issued. These are called authorized shares. Issued shares are the number of shares sold to shareholders and counted for ownership purposes. So, a corporation might have 10 million authorized shares but only issue 8 million.



Because shareholders’ ownership is affected by the number of authorized shares, shareholders may vote to limit that number as they see appropriate. When shareholders want to increase the number of authorized shares, they meet to discuss the issue and establish an agreement. When they agree to increase or decrease the number of authorized shares, a formal request is made to the state through filing articles of amendment.



The shares of publicly traded companies are listed on public exchanges, generally through a process called an initial public offering (IPO). This is an expensive, highly regulated, and lengthy process in which a company goes through fund-raising phases and scrutiny by regulators.






Private company shares are generally issued through company stock options or as other incentives to certain employees. These shares are still regulated but usually do not meet the Security and Exchange Commission's criteria to be listed on an exchange.



The issue and distribution of shares in public and private markets are regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Share trading on the secondary market is overseen by the SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA).


   Types of Shares  

As mentioned, any company can issue shares, but publicly traded companies are more likely to divide their stock into different types of shares.


  Common Stock Shares  

Many companies issue common stock, which is divided into shares. These are generally called common shares. These provide the purchasers—called shareholders—with a residual claim on the company and its profits, providing potential investment growth through both capital gains and dividends.



Common shares also come with voting rights, giving shareholders more control over the business. These rights allow the shareholders of a company to vote on specific corporate actions, elect members to the board of directors, and approve issuing new securities or payment of dividends. In addition, common stock can include preemptive rights, ensuring that shareholders may buy new shares and retain their percentage of ownership when the corporation issues new stock.


  Preferred Stock Shares  

Preferred stocks can also be divided into shares, commonly called preferred shares. Compared to common shares, preferred shares typically do not offer much market appreciation in value or voting rights in the corporation. However, this type of stock typically has set payment criteria, like a dividend paid out regularly, making the stock less risky than common stock.



Because preferred stock takes priority over common stock if the business files for bankruptcy and is forced to repay its lenders, preferred shareholders receive payment before common shareholders but after bondholders. This priority treatment reduces the risk even further compared to common shares.




What Are Shares in Simple Words?
Shares represent a unit of ownership in the business that issued them.




What's the Difference Between a Share and a Stock?
A stock is an equity instrument issued by a corporation. It is divided into shares, which then represent ownership.




Do Shares Make You Money?
Common shares can make money through capital gains or buybacks. Preferred shares can make money for you through dividends or higher buyback prices.


   The Bottom Line  

Shares are units of stocks issued by a corporation that represent ownership. They are sold to investors and traders to raise capital for the company. Many businesses issue stocks and shares when they need funds for research and development, expansion, or other growth opportunities.
What is the Sharing Economy?  

The sharing economy is an economic model defined as a peer-to-peer (P2P) based activity of acquiring, providing, or sharing access to goods and services that is often facilitated by a community-based online platform.





Key Takeaways

The sharing economy involves short-term peer-to-peer transactions to share use of idle assets and services or to facilitate collaboration.The sharing economy often involves some type of online platform that connects buyers and seller.The sharing economy is rapidly growing and evolving but faces significant challenges in the form of regulatory uncertainty and concerns about abuses.


   Understanding the Sharing Economy  

Communities of people have shared the use of assets for thousands of years, but the advent of the Internet—and its use of big data—has made it easier for asset owners and those seeking to use those assets to find each other. This sort of dynamic can also be referred to as the shareconomy, collaborative consumption, collaborative economy, or peer economy.



Sharing economies allow individuals and groups to make money from underused assets. In a sharing economy, idle assets such as parked cars and spare bedrooms can be rented out when not in use. In this way, physical assets are shared as services.



For examples, car sharing services like Zipcar can help illustrate this idea. According to data provided by the Brookings Institute, private vehicles go unused for 95% of their lifetime. The same report detailed the lodging sharing service Airbnb’s cost advantage over hotel space as homeowners make use of spare bedrooms. Airbnb rates were reported to be between 30-60% cheaper than hotel rates around the world.﻿﻿


   The Sharing Economy is Evolving  

The sharing economy has evolved over the past few years where it now serves as an all-encompassing term that refers to a host of on-line economic transactions that may even include business to business (B2B) interactions. Other platforms that have joined the sharing economy include:



Co-working Platforms: Companies that provide shared open work spaces for freelancers, entrepreneurs, and work-from-home employees in major metropolitan areas.Peer-to-Peer Lending Platforms: Companies that allow for individuals to lend money to other individuals at rates cheaper than those offered through traditional credit lending entities.Fashion Platforms: Sites that allow for individuals to sell or rent their clothes.Freelancing Platforms: Sites that offer to match freelance workers across a wide spectrum ranging from traditional freelance work to services traditionally reserved to handymen.



Spurred primarily with the growth of Uber and Airbnb, it is expected that the sharing economy will grow from $14 billion in 2014 to a forecasted $335 billion by 2025.﻿﻿


   Current Criticisms of the Sharing Economy  

Criticism of the sharing economy often involves regulatory uncertainty. Businesses offering rental services are often regulated by federal, state, or local authorities; unlicensed individuals offering rental services may not be following these regulations or paying the associated costs. This could mean giving them an advantage that enables them to charge lower prices.



Another concern is that lack of government oversight will lead to serious abuses of both buyers and sellers in the sharing economy. This has been highlighted by numerous highly publicized cases of things like hidden cameras in rented rooms, lawsuits over unfair treatment of ridesharing contractors by the platforms that employ them, and even murders of customers by real or fraudulent rental and rideshare providers.



There is also a fear that the greater amount of information shared on an online platform can create racial and/or gender bias among users. This can happen when users are allowed to choose who they will share their homes or vehicles with, or because of implicit statistical discrimination by algorithms that select users with characteristics such as poor credit history or criminal records.



For example, Airbnb had to face racial discrimination complaints from African-American and Latino would-be renters due to widespread user preference not to rent to these customers. As more data is presented and the sharing economy evolves, companies within this economy have pledged to combat bias in both their users and algorithms often by deliberately limiting the availability of information to and about buyers and sellers.
What Is the Sharpe Ratio?  

The Sharpe ratio compares the return of an investment with its risk. It's a mathematical expression of the insight that excess returns over a period of time may signify more volatility and risk, rather than investing skill.



Economist William F. Sharpe proposed the Sharpe ratio in 1966 as an outgrowth of his work on the capital asset pricing model (CAPM), calling it the reward-to-variability ratio. Sharpe won the Nobel Prize in economics for his work on CAPM in 1990.



The Sharpe ratio's numerator is the difference over time between realized, or expected, returns and a benchmark such as the risk-free rate of return or the performance of a particular investment category. Its denominator is the standard deviation of returns over the same period of time, a measure of volatility and risk.





Key Takeaways

The Sharpe ratio divides a portfolio's excess returns by a measure of its volatility to assess risk-adjusted performanceExcess returns are those above an industry benchmark or the risk-free rate of returnThe calculation may be based on historical returns or forecastsA higher Sharpe ratio is better when comparing similar portfolios.The Sharpe ratio has inherent weaknesses and may be overstated for some investment strategies.












Michela Buttignol


   Formula and Calculation of the Sharpe Ratio  

In its simplest form,



















Sharpe


 


Ratio



=





R


p



−



R


f





σ


p


















where:

















R


p



=


return of portfolio

















R


f



=


risk-free rate

















σ


p



=


standard deviation of the portfolio’s excess return







\begin{aligned} &\textit{Sharpe Ratio} = \frac{R_p - R_f}{\sigma_p}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &R_{p}=\text{return of portfolio}\\ &R_{f} = \text{risk-free rate}\\ &\sigma_p = \text{standard deviation of the portfolio's excess return}\\ \end{aligned}


​Sharpe Ratio=σp​Rp​−Rf​​where:Rp​=return of portfolioRf​=risk-free rateσp​=standard deviation of the portfolio’s excess return​



Standard deviation is derived from the variability of returns for a series of time intervals adding up to the total performance sample under consideration.



The numerator's total return differential versus a benchmark (Rp - Rf) is calculated as the average of the return differentials in each of the incremental time periods making up the total. For example, the numerator of a 10-year Sharpe ratio might be the average of 120 monthly return differentials for a fund versus an industry benchmark.



The Sharpe ratio's denominator in that example will be those monthly returns' standard deviation, calculated as follows:



Take the return variance from the average return in each of the incremental periods, square it, and sum the squares from all of the incremental periods.
Divide the sum by the number of incremental time periods.
Take a square root of the quotient.


   What the Sharpe Ratio Can Tell You  

The Sharpe ratio is one of the most widely used methods for measuring risk-adjusted relative returns. It compares a fund's historical or projected returns relative to an investment benchmark with the historical or expected variability of such returns.



The risk-free rate was initially used in the formula to denote an investor's hypothetical minimal borrowing costs. More generally, it represents the risk premium of an investment versus a safe asset such as a Treasury bill or bond.



When benchmarked against the returns of an industry sector or investing strategy, the Sharpe ratio provides a measure of risk-adjusted performance not attributable to such affiliations.



The ratio is useful in determining to what degree excess historical returns were accompanied by excess volatility. While excess returns are measured in comparison with an investing benchmark, the standard deviation formula gauges volatility based on the variance of returns from their mean.



The ratio's utility relies on the assumption that the historical record of relative risk-adjusted returns has at least some predictive value.






Generally, the higher the Sharpe ratio, the more attractive the risk-adjusted return.



The Sharpe ratio can be used to evaluate a portfolio’s risk-adjusted performance. Alternatively, an investor could use a fund's return objective to estimate its projected Sharpe ratio ex-ante.



The Sharpe ratio can help explain whether a portfolio's excess returns are attributable to smart investment decisions or simply luck and risk.



For example, low-quality, highly speculative stocks can outperform blue chip shares for considerable periods of time, as during the Dot-Com Bubble or, more recently, the meme stocks frenzy. If a YouTuber happens to beat Warren Buffett in the market for a while as a result, the Sharpe ratio will provide a quick reality check by adjusting each manager's performance for their portfolio's volatility.



The greater a portfolio's Sharpe ratio, the better its risk-adjusted performance. A negative Sharpe ratio means the risk-free or benchmark rate is greater than the portfolio’s historical or projected return, or else the portfolio's return is expected to be negative.












Alison Czinkota / Investopedia


   Sharpe Ratio Pitfalls  

The Sharpe ratio can be manipulated by portfolio managers seeking to boost their apparent risk-adjusted returns history. This can be done by lengthening the return measurement intervals, which results in a lower estimate of volatility. For example, the standard deviation (volatility) of annual returns is generally lower than that of monthly returns, which are in turn less volatile than daily returns. Financial analysts typically consider the volatility of monthly returns when using the Sharpe ratio.



Calculating the Sharpe ratio for the most favorable stretch of performance rather than an objectively chosen look-back period is another way to cherry-pick the data that will distort the risk-adjusted returns.



The Sharpe ratio also has some inherent limitations. The standard deviation calculation in the ratio's denominator, which serves as its proxy for portfolio risk, calculates volatility based on a normal distribution and is most useful in evaluating symmetrical probability distribution curves. In contrast, financial markets subject to herding behavior can go to extremes much more often than a normal distribution would suggest is possible. As a result, the standard deviation used to calculate the Sharpe ratio may understate tail risk.



Market returns are also subject to serial correlation. The simplest example is that returns in adjacent time intervals may be correlated because they were influenced by the same market trend. But mean reversion also depends on serial correlation, just like market momentum. The upshot is that serial correlation tends to lower volatility, and as a result investment strategies dependent on serial correlation factors may exhibit misleadingly high Sharpe ratios as a result.



One way to visualize these criticisms is to consider the investment strategy of picking up nickels in front of a steamroller that moves slowly and predictably nearly all the time, except for the few rare occasions when it suddenly and fatally accelerates. Because such unfortunate events are extremely uncommon, those picking up nickels would, most of the time, deliver positive returns with minimal volatility, earning high Sharpe ratios as a result. And if a fund picking up the proverbial nickels in front of a steamroller got flattened on one of those extremely rare and unfortunate occasions, its long-term Sharpe might still look good: just one bad month, after all. Unfortunately, that would bring little comfort to the fund's investors.


   Sharpe Alternatives: The Sortino and the Treynor  

The standard deviation in the Sharpe ratio's formula assumes that price movements in either direction are equally risky. In fact, the risk of an abnormally low return is very different from the possibility of an abnormally high one for most investors and analysts.



A variation of the Sharpe called the Sortino ratio ignores the above-average returns to focus solely on downside deviation as a better proxy for the risk of a fund of a portfolio.



The standard deviation in the denominator of a Sortino ratio measures the variance of negative returns or those below a chosen benchmark relative to the average of such returns.



Another variation of the Sharpe is the Treynor ratio, which divides excess return over a risk-free rate or benchmark by the beta of a security, fund, or portfolio as a measure of its systematic risk exposure. Beta measures the degree to which the volatility of a stock or fund correlates to that of the market as a whole. The goal of the Treynor ratio is to determine whether an investor is being compensated for extra risk above that posed by the market.


   Example of How to Use Sharpe Ratio  

The Sharpe ratio is sometimes used in assessing how adding an investment might affect the risk-adjusted returns of the portfolio.



For example, an investor is considering adding a hedge fund allocation to a portfolio that has returned 18% over the last year. The current risk-free rate is 3%, and the annualized standard deviation of the portfolio’s monthly returns was 12%, which gives it a one-year Sharpe ratio of 1.25, or (18 - 3) / 12.



The investor believes that adding the hedge fund to the portfolio will lower the expected return to 15% for the coming year, but also expects the portfolio’s volatility to drop to 8% as a result. The risk-free rate is expected to remain the same over the coming year.



Using the same formula with the estimated future numbers, the investor finds the portfolio would have a projected Sharpe ratio of 1.5, or (15% - 3%) divided by 8%.



In this case, while the hedge fund investment is expected to reduce the absolute return of the portfolio, based on its projected lower volatility it would improve the portfolio's performance on a risk-adjusted basis. If the new investment lowered the Sharpe ratio it would be assumed to be detrimental to risk-adjusted returns, based on forecasts. This example assumes that the Sharpe ratio based on the portfolio's historical performance can be fairly compared to that using the investor's return and volatility assumptions.




What Is a Good Sharpe Ratio?
Sharpe ratios above 1 are generally considered “good," offering excess returns relative to volatility. However, investors often compare the Sharpe ratio of a portfolio or fund with those of its peers or market sector. So a portfolio with a Sharpe ratio of 1 might be found lacking if most rivals have ratios above 1.2, for example. A good Sharpe ratio in one context might be just a so-so one, or worse, in another.




How Is the Sharpe Ratio Calculated?
To calculate the Sharpe ratio, investors first subtract the risk-free rate from the portfolio’s rate of return, often using U.S. Treasury bond yields as a proxy for the risk-free rate of return. Then, they divide the result by the standard deviation of the portfolio’s excess return.




What Is the Sharpe Ratio of S&P 500?
As of June 30, 2023, the S&P 500 Portfolio Sharpe ratio is 0.88.


   The Bottom Line  

The Sharpe ratio, named after its creator, William F. Sharpe, is a mathematical expression that helps investors compare the return of an investment with its risk. To calculate the Sharpe ratio investors can subtract the risk-free rate of return from the expected rate of return, and then divide that result by the standard deviation (the asset's volatility.)



The Sharpe ratio can be helpful only when used to compare very similar investments, like mutual funds and ETFs that track the same underlying index. Still, investors should keep in mind that those investments with a higher Sharpe ratio can be more volatile than those with a lower rate.
What Is a Shell Corporation?  

A shell corporation is a corporation without active business operations or significant assets. These types of corporations are not all necessarily illegal, but they are sometimes used illegitimately, such as to disguise business ownership from law enforcement or the public. Legitimate reasons for a shell corporation include such things as a startup using the business entity as a vehicle to raise, funds, conduct a hostile takeover or to go public.


   Understanding Shell Corporation  

Shell corporations are used by large well-known public companies, shady business dealers and private individuals alike. For example, in addition to the legal reasons above, shell corporations act as tax avoidance vehicles for legitimate businesses, as is the case with Apple's corporate entities based in the United Kingdom. They are also used to obtain different forms of financing.



However, tax avoidance is sometimes seen as a loophole to tax evasion, as these corporations have been known to be used in black or gray market activities. It's natural to be suspicious of a shell corporation and it's important to understand the various scenarios in which they arise.


   Reasons to Legitimately Set Up a Shell Corporation  

The number one reason for a domestic company to set up a shell company is to realize a tax haven abroad. Large corporations, like in the Apple example, have decided to move jobs and profits offshore, taking advantage of looser tax codes. This is the process of "offshoring" or "outsourcing" work that was once conducted domestically.



To remain within legal bounds internationally, American corporations will set up shell companies in the foreign countries in which they are offshoring work. This is legally allowed by the United States and some say that it's the U.S. tax code itself that's forcing domestic companies to create shell corporations abroad.



Another way that shell companies help with taxes surrounds the need for financial institutions to conduct financial activity in foreign markets. This allows them to invest in capital markets outside of domestic borders and realize potential tax savings.


   Ways That People Abuse Shell Companies  

Even though there are legitimate reasons to set up a shell company, many wealthy individuals abuse shell companies for personal gain. Progressive taxation within the United States, that is, tax brackets, slowly caused people to seek personal tax havens. Significantly high earners set themselves up as shell companies in one or many locations, like the Cayman Islands. This is a gray area of tax evasion where people funnel earnings through shell companies in such a way that it isn't counted toward personal income.
What Is the Sherman Antitrust Act?  

The Sherman Antitrust Act refers to a landmark U.S. law that banned businesses from colluding or merging to form a monopoly. Passed in 1890, the law prevented these groups from dictating, controlling, and manipulating prices in a particular market.



The act aimed to promote economic fairness and competitiveness while regulating interstate commerce. The Sherman Antitrust Act was the U.S. Congress' first attempt to address the use of trusts as a tool that enables a limited number of individuals to control certain key industries.





Key Takeaways

The Sherman Antitrust Act is a law the U.S. Congress passed to prohibit trusts, monopolies, and cartels.Its purpose was to promote economic fairness and competitiveness and to regulate interstate commerce.Ohio Sen. John Sherman proposed and passed it in 1890.The act signaled an important shift in American regulatory strategy toward business and markets.The Sherman Act was amended by the Clayton Antitrust Act in 1914, which addressed specific practices that the Sherman Act did not ban.


   Understanding the Sherman Antitrust Act  

Sen. John Sherman from Ohio proposed the Sherman Antitrust Act in 1890. It was the first measure the U.S. Congress passed to prohibit trusts, monopolies, and cartels from taking over the general market. It also outlawed contracts, conspiracies, and other business practices that restrained trade and created monopolies within industries.



At the time, public hostility was growing toward large corporations like Standard Oil and the American Railway Union, which were seen as unfairly monopolizing certain industries. Consumers felt they were hit with exorbitantly high prices on essential goods, while competitors found themselves shut out because of deliberate attempts by large corporations to keep other enterprises out of the market.



This signaled an important shift in the American regulatory strategy toward business and markets. After the 19th-century rise of big business, American lawmakers reacted with a drive to regulate business practices more strictly. The Sherman Antitrust Act paved the way for more specific laws like the Clayton Act. Measures like these had widespread popular support, but lawmakers genuinely wanted to keep the American market economy broadly competitive in the face of changing business practices.



Competing individuals or businesses are not permitted to fix prices, divide markets, or attempt to rig bids. It also lays out specific penalties and fines intended for businesses that violate these rules. The act can impose both civil and criminal penalties on companies that don't comply.






The Sherman Antitrust Act was not designed to prevent healthy monopolistic competition but to target monopolies that resulted from a deliberate attempt to dominate the marketplace.


   Special Considerations  

Antitrust laws refer broadly to the group of state and federal laws designed to ensure that businesses are competing fairly. These laws exist to promote competition among sellers, limit monopolies, and give consumers options.



Supporters say these laws are necessary for an open marketplace to exist and thrive. Competition is considered healthy for the economy, giving consumers lower prices, higher-quality products and services, more choice, and greater innovation.



However, opponents argue that allowing businesses to compete as they see fit—instead of regulating competition—would ultimately give consumers the best prices.


   Sections of the Sherman Antitrust Act  

The Sherman Antitrust Act is divided into three key sections:



Section 1: This section defines and bans specific means of anti-competitive conduct.Section 2: This section addresses end results that are by their nature anti-competitive.Section 3: This section extends these guidelines and provisions to the District of Columbia and U.S. territories.


  Early issues and amendments  

The act received immediate public approval. But because the legislation's definition of concepts such as trusts, monopolies, and collusion was not clearly defined, few business entities were actually prosecuted under its measures.



The Sherman Antitrust Act was amended by the Clayton Antitrust Act in 1914, which addressed specific practices that the Sherman Act did not ban. It also closed loopholes that the Sherman Act established, including those that dealt specifically with anti-competitive mergers, monopolies, and price discrimination.



For example, the Clayton Act prohibits appointing the same person to make business decisions for competing companies.


   Historical Context of the Sherman Antitrust Act  

The Sherman Antitrust Act was born against a backdrop of increasing monopolies and abuses of power by large corporations and railroad conglomerates.


  The Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC)  

Congress passed the Interstate Commerce Act in 1887 in response to increasing public indignation about abuses of power and malpractices by railroad companies. This spawned the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC). Its purpose was to regulate interstate transportation entities. The ICC had jurisdiction over U.S. railroads and all common carriers, requiring them to submit annual reports and prohibiting unfair practices such as discriminatory rates.



During the first half of the 20th century, Congress consistently expanded the ICC's power so much that, despite its intended purpose, some believed that the ICC was often guilty of assisting the very companies it was tasked to regulate by favoring mergers that created unfair monopolies.


  The Gilded Age  

Congress passed the Sherman Antitrust Act at the height of what Mark Twain called the Gilded Age of American history. The Gilded Age, which spanned from the 1870s to about 1900, was dominated by political scandal and robber barons, the growth of railroads, the expansion of oil and electricity, and the development of America's first giant (national and international) corporations.



The Gilded Age was an era of rapid economic growth. Corporations took off during this time, in part because they were easy to register and, unlike today, did not have to pay any incorporation fees.


  Trusts in the 19th Century  

Late-19th-century legislators' understanding of trusts is different from our current concept of the term. During that time, trusts became an umbrella term for any sort of collusive or conspiratorial behavior that was seen to render competition unfair. The term trust has evolved over the years, though. Today, it refers to a financial relationship in which one party gives another the right to hold property or assets for a third party.


   Example of the Sherman Antitrust Act  

On Oct. 20, 2020, the U.S. Department of Justice filed an antitrust lawsuit against Google, alleging that the online giant engaged in anti-competitive conduct to preserve monopolies in search and search advertising. Deputy Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen compared the complaint to past uses of the Sherman Act to stop monopolistic practices by corporations.



“As with its historic antitrust actions against AT&T in 1974 and Microsoft in 1998, the Department is again enforcing the Sherman Act to restore the role of competition and open the door to the next wave of innovation—this time in vital digital markets,” Rosen said in a press release.




What Is the Sherman Antitrust Act in Simple Terms?
The Sherman Antitrust Act is a law passed by Congress to promote competition within the economy by prohibiting companies from colluding or merging to form a monopoly.




Why Was the Sherman Antitrust Act Passed?
The Sherman Antitrust Act was passed to address concerns by consumers who felt they were paying high prices on essential goods and by competing companies who believed they were being shut out of their industries by larger corporations.




What Are the Penalties for Violating the Sherman Act?
Those found guilty of violating the Sherman Act can face a hefty punishment. It is also a criminal law, and offenders may serve prison sentences of up to 10 years. Beyond that, there are also fines, which can be up to $1 million for an individual and up to $100 million for a corporation. In some cases, heftier fines could also be issued, worth twice the amount the conspirators gained from the illegal acts or twice the money lost by the victims.




Have Any of Today’s Big-Name Companies Been Accused of Violating the Sherman Act?
Many household names have been hit with antitrust suits based in part on the Sherman Act. Other than Google, in recent years Microsoft and Apple have both faced complaints, with the former accused of seeking to create a monopoly in Internet browser software and the latter of unethically raising the price of its e-books and, in later years, exploiting the market power of its app store.




What Is the Difference Between the Sherman Act and the Clayton Act?
The Clayton Act was introduced later, in 1914, to address some of the specific practices that the Sherman Act did not clearly prohibit or failed to properly clarify. The Sherman Act, the first of its kind, was deemed too vague, allowing some companies to find ways to maneuver around it.Essentially, the Clayton Act deals with similar topics, such as anti-competitive mergers, monopolies, and price discrimination but adds more detail and scope to eliminate some of the previous loopholes. Over the years, antitrust laws continue to be amended to reflect the current business environment and fresh observations.
What Is a Shooting Star?  

A shooting star is a bearish candlestick with a long upper shadow, little or no lower shadow, and a small real body near the low of the day. It appears after an uptrend. Said differently, a shooting star is a type of candlestick that forms when a security opens, advances significantly, but then closes the day near the open again.



For a candlestick to be considered a shooting star, the formation must appear during a price advance. Also, the distance between the highest price of the day and the opening price must be more than twice as large as the shooting star's body. There should be little to no shadow below the real body.





Key Takeaways


A shooting star occurs after an advance and indicates the price could start falling.
The formation is bearish because the price tried to rise significantly during the day, but then the sellers took over and pushed the price back down toward the open.
Traders typically wait to see what the next candle (period) does following a shooting star. If the price declines during the next period they may sell or short.
If the price rises after a shooting star, the formation may have been a false signal or the candle is marking a potential resistance area around the price range of the candle.







   What Does the Shooting Star Tell You?  

Shooting stars indicate a potential price top and reversal. The shooting star candle is most effective when it forms after a series of three or more consecutive rising candles with higher highs. It may also occur during a period of overall rising prices, even if a few recent candles were bearish.



Following the advance, a shooting star opens and then rises strongly during the day. This shows the same buying pressure seen over the last several periods. As the day progresses, though, the sellers step in and push the price back down to near the open, erasing the gains for the day. This shows that buyers lost control by the close of the day, and the sellers may be taking over.



The long upper shadow represents the buyers who bought during the day but are now in a losing position because the price dropped back to the open.



The candle that forms after the shooting star is what confirms the shooting star candle. The next candle's high must stay below the high of the shooting star and then proceed to close below the close of the shooting star. Ideally, the candle after the shooting star gaps lower or opens near the prior close and then moves lower on heavy volume. A down day after a shooting star helps confirm the price reversal and indicates the price could continue to fall. Traders may look to sell or short sell.



If the price rises after a shooting star, the price range of the shooting star may still act as resistance. For example, the price may consolidate in the area of the shooting star. If the price ultimately continues to rise, the uptrend is still intact and traders should favor long positions over selling or shorting.


   Example of How to Use the Shooting Star  










Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



In this example, the stock is rising in an overall uptrend. The uptrend accelerates just prior to the formation of a shooting star. The shooting star shows the price opened and went higher (upper shadow) then closed near the open. The following day closed lower, helping to confirm a potential price move lower. The high of the shooting star was not exceeded and the price moved within a downtrend for the next month. If trading this pattern, the trader could sell any long positions they were in once the confirmation candle was in place.


   The Difference Between the Shooting Star and the Inverted Hammer  

The inverted hammer and the shooting star look exactly the same. They both have long upper shadows and small real bodies near the low of the candle, with little or no lower shadow. The difference is context. A shooting star occurs after a price advance and marks a potential turning point lower. An inverted hammer occurs after a price decline and marks a potential turning point higher.


   Limitations of the Shooting Star  

One candle isn't all that significant in a major uptrend. Prices are always gyrating, so the sellers taking control for part of one period—like in a shooting star—may not end up being significant at all.



This is why confirmation is required. Selling must occur after the shooting star, although even with confirmation there is no guarantee the price will continue to fall, or how far. After a brief decline, the price could keep advancing in alignment with the longer-term uptrend.



Utilize stop losses when using candlesticks, so when they don't work out your risk is controlled. Also, consider using candlesticks in conjunction with other forms of analysis. A candlestick pattern may take on more significance if it occurs near a level that has been deemed important by other forms of technical analysis.
What Is a Short (or Short Position)  

A short, or a short position, is created when a trader sells a security first with the intention of repurchasing it or covering it later at a lower price. A trader may decide to short a security when she believes that the price of that security is likely to decrease in the near future. There are two types of short positions: naked and covered.



A naked short is when a trader sells a security without having possession of it. However, that practice is illegal in the U.S. for equities. It is banned fully in India and other countries. A covered short is when a trader borrows the shares from a stock loan department; in return, the trader pays a borrowing rate during the time the short position is in place.



In the futures or foreign exchange markets, short positions can be created at any time.





Key Takeaways

A short position refers to a trading technique in which an investor sells a security with plans to buy it later.Shorting is a strategy used when an investor anticipates that the price of a security will fall in the short term.In common practice, short sellers borrow shares of stock from an investment bank or other financial institution, paying a fee to borrow the shares while the short position is in place.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding Short Positions  

When creating a short position, one must understand that the trader has a finite potential to earn a profit and infinite potential for losses. That is because the potential for a profit is limited to the stock's distance to zero. However, a stock could potentially rise for years, making a series of higher highs. One of the most dangerous aspects of being short is the potential for a short squeeze. 



A short squeeze is when a heavily shorted stock suddenly begins to increase in price as traders that are short begin to cover the stock. One famous short squeeze occurred in October 2008, when the shares of Volkswagen surged higher as short sellers scrambled to cover their shares. During the short squeeze, the stock rose from roughly €200 to €1,000 in a little over a month.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2022


   How to Set Up a Short Position  

In order to place a short order, an investor must first have access to this type of order within their brokerage account. Since margin and interest will be incurred in a short trade, this means that you need to have a margin account in order to set up a short position. Once you have the correct type of account, along with any necessary permissions, the order details are entered on the order screen just like for any other trade.



Just remember that you are selling first to open a position in hopes of closing the trade by buying the asset back in the future at a lower price. In the case of a short position, the entry price is the sale price, while the exit price is the buy price. It is also important to remember that trading on margin does entail interest, margin requirements, and possibly other brokerage fees.


   Example of a Successful Short Position  

A trader thinks that Amazon's stock is poised to fall after it reports quarterly results. To take advantage of this possibility, the trader borrows 1,000 shares of the stock from his stock loan department with the intent to short the stock. The trader then goes out and sells short the 1,000 shares for $1,500. In the following weeks, the company reports weaker-than-expected revenue and guides for a weaker-than-expected forward quarter. As a result, the stock plunges to $1,300; the trader then buys to cover the short position. The trade results in a gain of $200 per share, or $200,000.








What Is Margin?
In finance, the margin is the collateral that an investor has to deposit with their broker or exchange to cover the credit risk the holder poses for the broker or the exchange. For example, a short position cannot be established without sufficient margin. In the case of short sales, under Regulation T, the Federal Reserve Board requires all short sale accounts to have 150% of the value of the short sale at the time the sale is initiated. The 150% consists of the full value of the short sale proceeds (100%), plus an additional margin requirement of 50% of the value of the short sale.




How Much Can I Lose on a Short Position?
Short selling occurs when an investor borrows a security and sells it on the open market, planning to buy it back later for less money. Theoretically, the price of an asset has no upper bound and can climb to infinity. This means that, in theory, the risk of loss on a short position is unlimited.




What Is a Short Squeeze?
Short positions represent borrowed shares that have been sold in anticipation of buying them back in the future. As the underlying asset prices rise, investors are faced with losses to their short position. Aside from the pressure of mounting paper losses, maintaining a short position can also become more difficult because, if the price of the underlying asset rises, so does the amount of margin required as collateral to ensure that the investor will be able to buy back the shares and return them to the broker. When investors are forced to buy back shares to cover their position, it is referred to as a short squeeze. If enough short sellers are forced to buy back shares at the same time, then it can result in a surge in demand for shares and therefore an extremely sharp rise in the underlying asset's price.


   The Bottom Line  

When traders believe that a security's price is likely to decline in the near term, they may enter a short position by selling the security first with the intention of buying it later at a lower price. To set up a short position, traders generally borrow shares of the security from their brokerage. This means that going short requires a margin account, as well as other potential permissions and possible broker fees.



If the price of a shorted security begins to rise rather than fall, the losses can mount up quickly. In fact, since the price of the security has no ceiling, the losses on a short position are theoretically unlimited. Given this inherent riskiness and the complexity of the transaction, shorting securities is generally recommended only for more advanced traders and investors.
What Is a Short Call?  

A short call is an options position taken as a trading strategy when a trader believes that the price of the asset underlying the option will drop. Therefore, it's considered a bearish trading strategy.



Short calls have limited profit potential and the theoretical risk of unlimited loss. They're usually used only by experienced traders and investors.





Key Takeaways

A call option gives the buyer of the option the right to purchase underlying shares at the strike price before the contract expires.When an investor sells a call option, the transaction is called a short call.A short call requires the seller to deliver the underlying shares to the buyer if the option is exercised.A short call is a bearish trading strategy, reflecting a bet that the security underlying the option will fall in price.The goal of the trader who sells a call is to make money from the premium and see the option expire worthless.


   How a Short Call Works  

A short call strategy is one of two simple ways options traders can take bearish positions. It involves selling call options, or calls. Calls give the holder of the option the right to buy the underlying security at a specified price (the strike price) before the option contract expires.



The seller, or writer, of the call option receives the premium the buyer pays for the call. The seller must deliver the underlying shares to the call buyer if the buyer exercises the option.



The success of the short call strategy rests on the option contract expiring worthless. That way, the trader banks the profit from the premium. The expired position will be removed from their account.



For this to happen, the price of the underlying security must fall below the strike price. If it does, the buyer won't exercise the option.



If the price rises, the option will be exercised because the buyer can get the shares at the strike price and immediately sell them at the higher market price for a profit.



For the seller, there’s unlimited exposure during the length of time the option is viable. That's because the underlying security's price could rise above the strike price during this time, and keep rising. The option would be exercised at some point before expiration. Once that happens, the seller has to go into the market and buy the shares at the current price. That price could potentially be much higher than the strike price that the buyer will be paying.



A seller of a call who doesn't already own the underlying shares of an option is selling a naked short call. To limit losses, some traders will exercise a short call while owning the underlying security. This is known as a covered call. Or, alternatively, they may simply close out their naked short position, accepting a loss that's less than what they'd lose if the option were assigned (exercised).












 Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   Example of a Short Call  

Say that shares of Humbucker Holdings are trading near $100 and are in a strong uptrend. However, based on a combination of fundamental and technical analyses, a trader believes that Humbucker is overvalued. They feel that, eventually, it will fall to $50 a share.



With that in mind, the trader decides to sell a call with a strike price of $110 and a premium of $1.00. They receive a net premium credit of $100 ($1.00 x 100 shares).



The price of Humbucker stock does indeed drop. The calls expire worthless and unexercised. The trader gets to enjoy the full amount of the premium as profit. The strategy worked.



However, things could instead go awry. Humbucker share prices could continue moving up rather than go down. This creates a theoretically limitless risk for the call writer.



For example, say the shares move up to $200 within a few months. The call holder exercises the option and buys the shares at the $90 dollar strike price. The shares must be delivered to the call holder. The call writer enters the market, buys 100 shares at the current market price of, it turns out, $200 per share. This is the trader's result:



Buy 100 shares at $200 per share = $20,000



Receive $90 per share from buyer = $9,000



Loss to trader is $20,000 - $9,000 = ($11,000)



Trader applies $100 premium received for a total loss of ($10,900)






Short calls can be extremely risky due to the potential for loss if they're exercised and the short call writer has to buy the shares that must be delivered.


   Short Calls vs. Long Puts  

As previously mentioned, a short call strategy is one of two basic bearish strategies involving options. The other is buying puts. Put options give the holder the right to sell a security at a certain price within a specific time frame. Going long on puts, as traders say, is also a bet that prices will fall, but the strategy works differently.



Say that our trader still believes Humbucker stock is headed for a fall. They opt to buy a put with a $90 strike price for a $1.00 premium. The trader spends $100 for the right to sell shares at $90 even if the actual market price falls to $50. Of course, if the stock does not drop below $90, the trader will have lost the premium paid for the protection.




What's a Short Call?
When investors sell a call option, the transaction is called a short call. Short is a trading term that refers to selling a security.




Why Would Someone Sell Call Options?
Investors who believe that the price of a security is going to fall might sell calls on that security simply for income. In other words, they'll profit just from the premium they received for selling the option. However, for the strategy to succeed, the option has to expire unexercised by the buyer.




What's the Risk of a Naked Short Call?
A naked short call refers to a situation where traders sell call options but don't already own the underlying securities that they would be obligated to deliver if the buyer exercises the calls. So, the risk is that the market price for the security goes up above the option strike price, the buyer exercises the option, and traders must enter the market to buy the securities for a price way above what they'll receive for them (the strike price).
What Is Short Covering?  

Short covering refers to buying back borrowed securities in order to close out an open short position at a profit or loss. It requires purchasing the same security that was initially sold short, and handing back the shares initially borrowed for the short sale. This type of transaction is referred to as buy to cover.



For example, a trader sells short 100 shares of XYZ at $20, based on the opinion that those shares will head lower. If XYZ declines to $15, the trader buys back XYZ to cover the short position, booking a $500 profit from the sale.





Key Takeaways

Short covering closes out a short position by buying back shares initially borrowed to short sell a stock.Short covering results in either a profit (bought back lower than the short sale price) or a loss (bought back higher than the short sale price).Short covering may force a short squeeze, with sellers becoming subject to margin calls. Monitoring metrics, such as short interest and the short interest ratio in a stock can help predict the chances of a squeeze.A social media-driven buying frenzy in brick-and-mortar videogame seller GameStop led to short covering by institutional investors to close out their short positions.












Investopedia / Ellen Lindner


   How Does Short Covering Work?  

Short covering is necessary in order to close an open short position. A short position will be profitable if it is covered at a lower price than the initial transaction; it will incur a loss if it is covered at a higher price than the initial transaction. When there is a great deal of short covering occurring in a security, it may result in a short squeeze, wherein short sellers are forced to liquidate positions at progressively higher prices as they lose money and their brokers invoke margin calls.



Short covering can also occur involuntarily when a stock with very high short interest is subjected to a “buy-in”. This term refers to the closing of a short position by a broker-dealer when the stock is extremely difficult to borrow and lenders are demanding it back. Oftentimes, this occurs in stocks that are less liquid with fewer shareholders.


   Monitoring Short Interest  

The higher the short interest and short interest ratio (SIR), the greater the risk that short covering may occur in a disorderly fashion. Short covering is generally responsible for the initial stages of a rally after a prolonged bear market or a protracted decline in a stock or other security. Short sellers usually have shorter-term holding periods than investors with long positions, due to the risk of runaway losses in a strong uptrend. As a result, short sellers are generally quick to cover short sales on signs of a turnaround in market sentiment or a security's bad fortunes.


   Example of Short Covering  

To close out a short position, traders need to buy back the shares — referred to as “short covering,” — and return them to the stock lender. Consider that XYZ has 50 million shares outstanding, 10 million shares sold short, and an average daily trading volume (ADTV) of 1 million shares. XYZ has a short interest of 20% and a SIR of 10, both of which are quite high (suggesting that short covering could be difficult).



XYZ loses ground over several weeks, spurring traders to open short positions in the stock. One morning before they open, the company announces a major upward revision in quarterly earnings. XYZ gaps higher at the opening bell, placing traders’ positions into a significant loss. Some decide to wait for a more favorable price and hold off on covering, while other short sellers exit their positions aggressively. This disorderly short covering causes a sharp spike in the XYZ share price, creating a feedback loop that continues until the short squeeze exhausts itself. Traders who delayed short covering risk having to buy back the shares at a higher and higher prices, exposing themselves to greater risk.


   The GameStop Short Squeeze  

A short squeeze occurs when investors who have shorted a stock, or borrowed shares to sell with the expectation of buying them back at a lower price, are forced to buy back those shares at a higher price to limit their losses. It leads to a sudden surge in demand for the stock, causing investors to buy back shares quickly, driving the price even higher. A meme stock buying frenzy in January 2021 led to a short squeeze in brick-and-mortar video game retailer GameStop causing several hedge funds to suffer significant losses.



As a result of the shift to online gaming and declining sales, several prominent funds had built a large short position in GameStop. Retail traders noticed this high level of short interest in the stock and worked together through Reddit trading group WallStreetBets to drive up the stock price by buying shares and options contracts. As more investors piled into GameStop, the stock price began to climb rapidly, causing some of the hedge funds with short positions to suffer steep losses. In an attempt to reduce risk, some of these funds began buying back shares at a much higher price than they had initially sold them for to protect against a further rising prices. 






Institutional investors lost roughly $19 billion short selling GameStop in January 2021, according to data cited by Business Insider.



The squeeze was exacerbated by several hedge funds shorting more shares than the available float of shares in the market, making it nearly impossible to cover all their short positions. This added immense pressure to buy back shares at any available price, further pushing up the stock price. The frenzied buying by retailer traders resulted in short covering by institutional investors, creating a feedback loop that kept pushing GameStop shares higher. Ultimately, the squeeze caused some hedge funds to lose billions of dollars, and the stock price to rise from around $20 per share to over $400 in just a few weeks. 




How Does Short Covering Work?
Short covering works by closing out a short position that an investor has made by buying back shares that were initially borrowed and sold. When an investor shorts a stock, they borrow shares from a stock lender and sell them on the market, with the expectation of buying them back at a lower price in the future. If the stock goes down, the investor's short position generates a profit, but if it goes up, it results in a loss. Increased short covering has the potential to trigger a short squeeze and cause significant losses.




What’s the Difference Between Short Interest and the Short Interest Ratio?
Short interest refers to the total number of shares that have been sold short in a specific security that has not been covered or closed out. Investors use the metric as a measure of bearish sentiment. Short interest can be expressed as a percentage of the total shares outstanding or as a ratio of the total shares that a company has available for trading. By comparison, the SIR takes the number of shares held short in a stock and divides the figure by the stock's average daily trading volume. Investors use this metric to determine how many days it would take to cover all short positions in a stock.




How Did Short Covering Contribute to the GameStop Short Squeeze?
Retail traders noticed a high level of short interest in GameStop and worked together through Reddit trading group WallStreetBets to coordinate frenzied buying in the company’s shares and options. The increased sudden buying pressure forced several hedge funds who had bet against the videogame retailer to promptly cover their large short positions at a significant loss, creating a short squeeze in the stock. The short squeeze was exacerbated by several funds shorting more shares than the available float of shares in the market, making it difficult to cover all their short positions.




What Risks are Associated with Short Covering?
Investors who cover a short position at a higher price than they initially shorted the stock for will incur a loss. The act of short covering can trigger further buying, creating a short squeeze in the stock, increasing the potential for significant losses as traders scramble to buy back shares at progressively higher prices. Before initiating a short position, investors should monitor a stock’s short interest and SIR to determine the likelihood of a short squeeze occurring.


   The Bottom Line   

Short covering refers to buying back borrowed securities to close out open short positions. Short sellers usually hold for less time than investors with long positions due to the potential for a short squeeze caused by an acceleration in buying pressure and short covering. As a result, short sellers generally cover short sales quickly on a turnaround in market sentiment to limit potential losses. The higher the short interest and SIR in a stock’s float, the greater the risk that short covering may occur in a disorderly fashion, leading to short squeezes. A meme stock buying frenzy, such as the GameStop short squeeze in early 2021, can result in significant losses for institutional investors with large short positions.
What Is Short Interest?  

Short interest is the number of shares that have been sold short and remain outstanding. Traders typically sell a security short if they anticipate that price will decline by borrowing shares of stock. The investor then sells these borrowed shares to buyers willing to pay the market price.



Short interest is often an indicator of current market sentiment. An increase in short interest often signals that investors have become more bearish, while a decrease in short interest signals that they have become more bullish.



Short interest is often expressed as a number or percentage. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) requires firms to report short interest positions in all customer and proprietary accounts in all equity securities twice a month.





Key Takeaways

Short interest indicates how many shares of a company are currently sold short and not yet covered.Short interest is often expressed as a number but is more telling as a percentage.An increase in short interest often signals that investors have become more bearish, while a decrease in short interest shows that they have become more bullish.Short interest can be used as an indicator of market sentiment for a company’s stock or the market as a whole, and some investors use this as an indication that it might be profitable to short that company’s stock.


   What Does Short Interest Signal?  

Short interest can provide insight into the potential direction of an individual stock, as well as how bullish or bearish investors are about the market overall. Stock exchanges measure and report on short interest and issue reports each month, providing investors a tool to use as a short-selling benchmark.



A large increase or decrease in a stock’s short interest from the previous month can indicate investor sentiment. If the short interest for a stock rises from 10% to 20%, it may be a warning sign that negative sentiment is growing toward the company, as the number of investors who expect the stock price to decrease has doubled.



Short interest can also be converted into a ratio, also known as days to cover, by taking the number of short shares and dividing it by the average daily trading volume. The short interest ratio indicates how many days it would take for all of a stock’s shares that are sold short to be covered or repurchased in the market.



If short interest is one million shares, and its average daily trading volume is 100,000 shares, it will take at least 10 days on average for the shorts to be able to cover their positions.






Short Interest Ratio = Short Interest ÷ Average Daily Trading VolumeThis ratio indicates how many days it would take for all of a stock’s shares that are sold short to be covered or repurchased in the market.


   How to Use Short Interest  

If a stock has a rising level of short interest, it doesn’t mean that the stock will fall in price, but only that a high number of investors are betting that the stock will fall in price. An investor can calculate short interest or short float for a stock by dividing the number of shares sold short by the float by the total number of shares available for the public to buy.






Short Float Percentage = Number of Shares Sold Short ÷ Number of Shares in FloatThis percentage indicates the percentage of shares available to the public that is borrowed.



If a company has 10 million shares of stock outstanding and 1 million shares are sold short, the total short interest is 10%.



Short interest can be used as an indicator of market sentiment for a company’s stock or the market as a whole, and some bullish investors see high short interest as an opportunity. There are some limitations to using short interest as a marker. Short interest reports, such as those provided monthly by the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), are not timely and may not reflect market conditions. Also, stock can be heavily shorted for a long period without seeing a short squeeze or a price decline.




What are the limitations of using short interest?
Short interest is a useful tool but should not be the sole determinant of an investment decision. Changes in short interest, and even extremes, may not lead to significant price changes in a timely fashion. A stock can stay at an extreme reading for long periods or a major price decline. Short interest is published only monthly by most exchanges, so traders are using slightly outdated information, and the actual short interest may already be significantly different than what the report indicates.




What is a short squeeze?
A short squeeze occurs when a high number of short sellers attempt to cut their losses and exit their short positions by purchasing their borrowed shares due to panic about potential losses. Also, a short squeeze often occurs if a stock price rises.




How does short interest compare to a put/call ratio?
Short interest and the put/call ratio are both indicators of market sentiment. Short interest focuses on the number of short shares outstanding. The put/call ratio uses the options market for its data. Put options are bearish bets, while calls are bullish bets. Changes in the put/call ratio are another gauge that can be used to determine whether investors are expecting prices to rise or fall in the future.




What is a good short interest?
Short interest as a percentage of float below 10% indicates strong positive sentiment. Short interest as a percentage of float above 10% is fairly high, indicating significant pessimistic sentiment. Short interest as a percentage of float above 20% is extremely high.




Is 20% a high short interest?
Yes. Short interest as a percentage of float above 20% is considered high, and it indicates a very pessimistic sentiment.


   The Bottom Line  

Short interest indicates how many shares of a company are currently sold short and not yet covered. Short interest is often expressed as a number, yet it is more telling as a percentage.



An increase in short interest often signals that investors have become more bearish, while a decrease in short interest shows they have become more bullish. Short interest can be used as an indicator of market sentiment for a company’s stock or the market as a whole, and some investors use this as an indication that it might be profitable to short that company’s stock.
What Is the Short Interest Ratio?  

The short Interest ratio takes the number of shares held short in a stock and it divides this by the stock's average daily trading volume. Simply put, the ratio can help an investor find out very quickly if a stock is heavily shorted or not shorted versus its average daily trading volume.



The term is sometimes used interchangeably with days to cover.





Key Takeaways

The short interest ratio is a quick way to see how heavily shorted a stock may be versus its trading volume.The short interest ratio indicates how many days it would take for all the shares short to be covered or repurchased in the open market.The short interest ratio and short interest are not the same—short interest measures the total number of shares that have been sold short in the market.News or events may impact trading volumes and make the ratio expand or contract, so it should always be compared with the actual short interest and trading volumes.


   The Formula for Short Interest Ratio Is:  

















Short


 


Interest


 


Ratio



=




S


I




A


D


T


V


















where:
















S


I


=


Short Interest
















A


D


T


V


=


Average Daily Trading Volume







\begin{aligned}&\textbf{Short Interest Ratio}=\frac{SI}{ADTV}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&SI= \text{Short Interest}\\&ADTV = \text{Average Daily Trading Volume}\\\end{aligned}


​Short Interest Ratio=ADTVSI​where:SI=Short InterestADTV=Average Daily Trading Volume​


   What the Short Interest Ratio Can Tell You  

The ratio tells an investor if the number of shares short is high or low versus the stock's average trading volume. The ratio can rise or fall based on the number of shares short. However, it can also increase or decrease as volume levels change.


   Example of How to Use the Short Interest Ratio  

The Tesla chart below shows the short interest ratio, the number of shares short, and the daily average trading volume. In the example, one can see that a rising short interest ratio does not always correspond to rising short interest.



In July and August 2016, the short interest ratio rose despite the number of shares short falling. That was because the daily average volume fell sharply during that time. Additionally, the short interest was steadily declining in 2018 despite short interest being elevated because the average daily volume was steadily rising on the stock.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021


   The Difference Between a Short Interest Ratio and Short Interest  

It is essential to remember that the short interest ratio and short interest are not the same. Short interest measures the total number of shares that have been sold short in the market.



The short interest ratio is a formula used to measure how many days it would take for all the shares short in the marketplace to be covered.


   Limitations of Using the Short Interest Ratio  

The short interest ratio has several flaws, the first being that it is not updated regularly. Short interest is reported every two weeks and is usually as of the 15th and the last day of the month. It takes several days before the information is published and by that time, the number of shares short in the market may have already changed.



Additionally, one must consider how news or events may impact trading volumes and make the ratio expand or contract. The ratio should always be compared with the actual short interest and trading volumes to get the full picture.
What Is a Short Put?  

A short put refers to when a trader opens an options trade by selling or writing a put option. The trader who buys the put option is long that option, and the trader who wrote that option is short.



The writer (short) of the put option receives the premium (option cost), and the profit on the trade is limited to that premium.





Key Takeaways

A short put is when a trader sells or writes a put option on a security.The idea behind the short put is to profit from an increase in the stock's price by collecting the premium associated with a sale in a short put.Consequently, a decline in price will incur losses for the option writer.


   Basics of the Short Put  

A short put is also known as an uncovered put or a naked put. If an investor writes a put option, that investor is obligated to purchase shares of the underlying stock if the put option buyer exercises the option.



The short put holder could also face a substantial loss prior to the buyer exercising, or the option expiring, if the price of the underlying falls below the strike price of the short put option. 


   Short Put Mechanics  

A short put occurs if a trade is opened by selling a put. For this action, the writer (seller) receives a premium for writing an option. The writer's profit on the option is limited to that premium received. 



Initiating an option trade to open a position by selling a put is different than buying an option and then selling it. In the latter, the sell order is used to close a position and lock in a profit or loss. In the former, the sell (writing) is opening the put position.



If a trader initiates a short put, they likely believe the price of the underlying will stay above the strike price of the written put. If the price of the underlying stays above the strike price of the put option, the option will expire worthless and the writer gets to keep the premium. If the price of the underlying falls below the strike price, the writer faces potential losses.



Some traders use a short put to buy the underlying security. For example, assume you want to buy a stock at $25, but it currently trades at $27. Selling a put option with a strike of $25 means if the price falls below $25 you will be required to buy that stock at $25, which you wanted to do anyway. The benefit is that you received a premium for writing the option. If you received a $1 premium for writing the option, then you have effectively reduced your purchase price to $24. If the price of the underlying doesn't drop below $25, you still keep the $1 premium.















Short Put.
Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   Risks of Selling Puts  

The profit on a short put is limited to the premium received, but the risk can be significant. When writing a put, the writer is required to buy the underlying at the strike price. If the price of the underlying falls below the strike price, the put writer could face a significant loss.



For example, if the put strike price is $25, and the price of the underlying falls to $20, the put writer is facing a loss of $5 per share (less the premium received). They can close out the option trade (buy an option to offset the short) to realize the loss, or let the option expire which will cause the option to be exercised and the put writer will own the underlying at $25.



If the option is exercised and the writer needs to buy the shares, this will require an additional cash outlay. In this case, for every short put contract the trader will need to buy $2,500 worth of stock ($25 x 100 shares).


   Short Put Example  

Assume an investor is bullish on hypothetical stock XYZ Corporation, which is currently trading at $30 per share. The investor believes the stock will steadily rise to $40 over the next several months. The trader could buy shares, but this would require $3,000 in capital to buy 100 shares. Writing a put option generates income immediately, but could create a loss later on if the stock price falls (as could buying the shares).



The investor writes one put option with a strike price of $32.50, expiring in three months, at $5.50. Therefore, the maximum gain is limited to $550 ($5.50 x 100 shares), which occurs if the stock closes at $32.5 or higher at expiration. The maximum loss is $2,700, or ($32.50 - $5.50) x 100 shares. The maximum loss occurs if the underlying falls to zero and the put writer is assigned to buy the shares at $32.50. The maximum loss is partially offset by the premium received from selling the option.
What Is the Short Run?  

The short run is a concept that states that, within a certain period in the future, at least one input is fixed while others are variable. In economics, it expresses the idea that an economy behaves differently depending on the length of time it has to react to certain stimuli. The short run does not refer to a specific duration of time but rather is unique to the firm, industry or economic variable being studied.



A key principle guiding the concept of the short run and the long run is that in the short run, firms face both variable and fixed costs, which means that output, wages, and prices do not have full freedom to reach a new equilibrium. Equilibrium refers to a point in which opposing forces are balanced.


   Understanding the Short Run  

The short run as a constraint differs from the long run. In the short run, leases, contracts, and wage agreements limit a firm's ability to adjust production or wages to maintain a rate of profit. In the long run, there are no fixed costs; costs find balance when the combination of outputs that a firm puts forth results in the sought after amount of the goods at the cheapest possible price.



If a hospital experiences lower than expected demand in a given year, but its entire employment force of doctors, nurses, and technicians is under contract for the year, then the hospital has no choice but to swallow a cut in its profit. In the long run, firms in capital-intensive industries, such as oil and mining, have time to expand or shrink operations in factories or investments in correspondence with changing demand. But in the short run, they are unable to capitalize on changes in demand with the same degree of flexibility.



[Important: The short run does not refer to a specific period of time and is instead specific to the firm, industry or economic factor being studied.]


   Examples of Short Run Costs  

There are a number of ways to understand the challenges businesses and industries face in the short run versus the long run. Here are a few examples.



Mining and energy giants were hit especially hard by the fall in iron ore, coal, copper, and other commodity prices, underscoring their high fixed costs in the short run. Glencore lost $5 billion in 2015, while Vale lost $12 billion, and Rio Tinto lost $866 million.



Despite lower prices, these firms continue to ramp up production due to new investments, particularly in areas such as Brazil and Australia, made when commodity prices were significantly higher around 2011. For instance, Glencore purchased Xstrata in 2013 for $30 billion in a deal in which it acquired most of its mining assets, which have significantly depreciated.



In the analysis of short-run versus long-run costs, it is important to understand the behavior of the firms. In certain situations, it may be preferable to keep operating an unprofitable firm over the short run if this helps to offset costs that are fixed partially. In the long run, however, an expensive firm will be able to terminate its leases and wage agreements and shut down operations.


   Key Takeaways  

The short run, as it applies to business, states that at a certain point in the future, one or more inputs will be fixed, while others are variable.When it relates to economics, the short run speaks to the idea that an economy's behavior will vary based on how much time it has to absorb and react to stimuli.The short run's counterpart is the long run, which contains no fixed costs. Instead, costs balance out with the desired amount of costs available at the lowest possible price.
What Is a Short Sale?  

A short sale is the sale of an asset or stock the seller does not own. It is generally a transaction in which an investor sells borrowed securities in anticipation of a price decline; the seller is then required to return an equal number of shares at some point in the future. In contrast, a seller owns the security or stock in a long position.





Key Takeaways

A short sale is the sale of a stock that an investor thinks will decline in value in the future. To accomplish a short sale, a trader borrows stock on margin for a specified time and sells it when either the price is reached or the time period expires. ﻿Short sales are considered a risky trading strategy because they limit gains even as they magnify losses. They are also accompanied by regulatory risks. Near-perfect timing is required to make short sales work.


   Understanding Short Sales  

A short sale is a transaction in which the seller does not actually own the stock that is being sold but borrows it from the broker-dealer through which they are placing the sell order. The seller then has the obligation to buy back the stock at some point in the future. Short sales are margin transactions, and their equity reserve requirements are more stringent than for purchases.



Brokers borrow the shares for short sale transactions from custody banks and fund management companies that lend them as a revenue stream. Institutions that lend shares for short selling include JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Merrill Lynch Wealth Management.



The main advantage of a short sale is that it allows traders to profit from a drop in price. Short sellers aim to sell shares while the price is high, and then buy them later after the price has dropped. Short sales are typically executed by investors who think the price of the stock being sold will decrease in the short term (such as a few months).



It is important to understand that short sales are considered risky because if the stock price rises instead of declines, there is theoretically no limit to the investor's possible loss. As a result, most experienced short sellers will use a stop-loss order, so that if the stock price begins to rise, the short sale will be automatically covered with only a small loss. Be aware, however, that the stop-loss triggers a market order with no guaranteed price. This can be a risky strategy for volatile or illiquid stocks.



Short sellers can buy the borrowed shares and return them to the broker any time before they're due. Returning the shares shields the short seller from any further price increases or decreases the stock may experience.


   Short Sale Margin Requirements  

Short sales allow for leveraged profits because these trades are always placed on margin, which means that the full amount of the trade does not have to be paid for. Therefore, the entire gain realized from a short sale can be much larger than the available equity in an investor's account would otherwise permit.



The margin rule requirements for short sales dictate that 150% of the value of the shares shorted needs to be initially held in the account. Therefore, if the value of the shares shorted is $25,000, the initial margin requirement would be $37,500. This prevents the proceeds from the sale from being used to purchase other shares before the borrowed shares are returned. However, since this includes the $25,000 from the short sale, the investor is only putting up 50%, or $12,500.﻿﻿







When Should You Make A Short Sale?


   Short Sale Risks  

Short selling has many risks that make it unsuitable for a novice investor. For starters, it limits maximum gains while potentially exposing the investor to unlimited losses. A stock can only fall to zero, resulting in a 100% loss for a long investor, but there is no limit to how high a stock can theoretically go. A short seller who has not covered his or her position with a stop-loss buyback order can suffer tremendous losses if the stock price runs higher.



For example, consider a company that becomes embroiled in scandal when its stock is trading at $70 per share. An investor sees an opportunity to make a quick profit and sells the stock short at $65. But then the company is able to quickly exonerate itself from the accusations by coming up with tangible proof to the contrary. The stock price quickly rises to $80 a share, leaving the investor with a loss of $15 per share for the moment. If the stock continues to rise, so do the investor's losses.  



Short selling also involves significant expenses. There are the costs of borrowing the security to sell, the interest payable on the margin account that holds it, and trading commissions.



Another major obstacle that short sellers must overcome is that markets have historically moved in an upward trend over time, which works against profiting from broad market declines in any long-term sense. Furthermore, the overall efficiency of the markets often builds the effect of any kind of bad news about a company into its current price. For instance, if a company is expected to have a bad earnings report, in most cases, the price will have already dropped by the time earnings are announced. Therefore, to make a profit, most short sellers must be able to anticipate a drop in a stock's price before the market analyzes the cause of the drop in price.



Short sellers also need to consider the risk of short squeezes and buy-ins. A short squeeze occurs when a heavily shorted stock moves sharply higher, which "squeezes" more short sellers out of their positions and drives the price of the stock higher. Buy-ins occur when a broker closes short positions in a difficult-to-borrow stock whose lenders want it back.



Finally, regulatory risks arise with bans on short sales in a specific sector or in the broad market to avoid panic and selling pressures.



Near-perfect timing is required to make short selling work, unlike the buy-and-hold method that allows time for an investment to work itself out. Only disciplined traders should sell short, as it requires discipline to cut a losing short position rather than adding to it and hoping it will work out.



Many successful short sellers profit by finding companies that are fundamentally misunderstood by the market (e.g., Enron and WorldCom). For example, a company that is not disclosing its current financial condition can be an ideal target for a short seller. While short sales can be profitable under the right circumstances, they should be approached carefully by experienced investors who have done their homework on the company they are shorting. Both fundamental and technical analysis can be useful tools in determining when it is appropriate to sell short.



Because it can damage a company's stock price, short sales have many critics, consisting primarily of companies that have been shorted. A 2004 research paper by Owen Lamont, then a professor at Yale, found that companies that engaged in a tactical war against traders who shorted their stock suffered a 2% drop in their returns per month in the next year.



Legendary investor Warren Buffett welcomes short sellers. "The more shorts, the better, because they have to buy the stock later on," he is reported to have said. According to him, short sellers are necessary correctives who "sniff out" wrongdoing or problematic companies in the market.



Those interested in learning more about short sales and other financial topics may want to consider enrolling in one of the best investing courses currently available.


   Alternative Short Sale Meaning  

In real estate, a short sale is the sale of real estate in which the net proceeds are less than the mortgage owed or the total amount of lien debts that secure the property. In a short sale, the sale is executed when the mortgagee or lienholder accepts an amount less than what is owed and when the sale is an arm's length transaction. Although not the most favorable transaction for buyers and lenders, it is preferred over foreclosure.


   Example of a Short Sale  

Suppose an investor borrows 1,000 shares at $25 each, or $25,000. Let's say the shares fall to $20 and the investor closes the position. To close the position, the investor needs to purchase 1,000 shares at $20 each, or $20,000. The investor captures the difference between the amount he receives from the short sale and the amount he paid to close the position, or $5,000.
What Is Short Selling?  

Short selling is an investment or trading strategy that speculates on the decline in a stock or other security’s price. It is an advanced strategy that should only be undertaken by experienced traders and investors.



Traders may use short selling as speculation, and investors or portfolio managers may use it as a hedge against the downside risk of a long position in the same security or a related one. Speculation carries the possibility of substantial risk and is an advanced trading method. Hedging is a more common transaction involving placing an offsetting position to reduce risk exposure.



In short selling, a position is opened by borrowing shares of a stock or other asset that the investor believes will decrease in value. The investor then sells these borrowed shares to buyers willing to pay the market price. Before the borrowed shares must be returned, the trader is betting that the price will continue to decline and they can purchase the shares at a lower cost. The risk of loss on a short sale is theoretically unlimited since the price of any asset can climb to infinity.





Key Takeaways


Short selling occurs when an investor borrows a security and sells it on the open market, planning to buy it back later for less money.
Short sellers bet on, and profit from, a drop in a security’s price. This can be contrasted with long investors who want the price to go up.
Short selling has a high risk/reward ratio: It can offer big profits, but losses can mount quickly and infinitely due to margin calls.



   Understanding Short Selling  

With short selling, a seller opens a short position by borrowing shares, usually from a broker-dealer, hoping to buy them back for a profit if the price declines. Shares must be borrowed because you cannot sell shares that do not exist. To close a short position, a trader buys the shares back on the market—hopefully at a price less than at which they borrowed the asset—and returns them to the lender or broker. Traders must account for any interest charged by the broker or commissions charged on trades.



To open a short position, a trader must have a margin account and will usually have to pay interest on the value of the borrowed shares while the position is open. Also, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), which enforces the rules and regulations governing registered brokers and broker-dealer firms in the United States, the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), and the Federal Reserve have set minimum values for the amount that the margin account must maintain—known as the maintenance margin. If an investor’s account value falls below the maintenance margin, more funds are required, or the position might be sold by the broker.



The process of locating shares that can be borrowed and returning them at the end of the trade is handled behind the scenes by the broker. Opening and closing the trade can be made through the regular trading platforms with most brokers. However, each broker will have qualifications that the trading account must meet before they allow margin trading.


   Why Sell Short?  

The most common reasons for engaging in short selling are speculation and hedging. A speculator is making a pure price bet that it will decline in the future. If they are wrong, they will have to buy the shares back higher, at a loss. Because of the additional risks in short selling due to the use of margin, it is usually conducted over a smaller time horizon and is thus more likely to be an activity conducted for speculation.



People may also sell short to hedge a long position. For instance, if you own call options (which are long positions), you may want to sell short against that position to lock in profits. Or, if you want to limit downside losses without actually exiting a long stock position, you can sell short in a stock that is closely related to or highly correlated with it.


  Example of Short Selling for a Profit  

Imagine a trader who believes that XYZ stock—currently trading at $50—will decline in price in the next three months. They borrow 100 shares and sell them to another investor. The trader is now “short” 100 shares since they sold something that they did not own but had borrowed. The short sale was only made possible by borrowing the shares, which may not always be available if the stock is already heavily shorted by other traders.



A week later, the company whose shares were shorted reports dismal financial results for the quarter, and the stock falls to $40. The trader decides to close the short position and buys 100 shares for $40 on the open market to replace the borrowed shares. The trader’s profit on the short sale, excluding commissions and interest on the margin account, is $1,000 ($50 - $40 = $10 × 100 shares = $1,000).


  Example of Short Selling for a Loss  

Using the scenario above, let’s now suppose the trader did not close out the short position at $40 but decided to leave it open to capitalize on a further price decline. However, a competitor swoops in to acquire the company with a takeover offer of $65 per share, and the stock soars.



If the trader decides to close the short position at $65, the loss on the short sale would be $1,500 ($50 - $65 = negative $15 × 100 shares = $1,500 loss). Here, the trader had to buy back the shares at a significantly higher price to cover their position.


  Example of Short Selling as a Hedge  

Apart from speculation, short selling has another useful purpose—hedging—often perceived as the lower-risk and more respectable avatar of shorting. The primary objective of hedging is protection, as opposed to the pure profit motivation of speculation. Hedging is undertaken to protect gains or mitigate losses in a portfolio, but since it comes at a significant cost, the vast majority of retail investors do not consider it during normal times.



The costs of hedging are twofold. There’s the actual cost of putting on the hedge, such as the expenses associated with short sales, or the premiums paid for protective options contracts. Also, there’s the opportunity cost of capping the portfolio’s upside if markets continue to move higher. As a simple example, if 50% of a portfolio that has a close correlation with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (S&P 500) is hedged, and the index moves up 15% over the next 12 months, the portfolio would only record approximately half of that gain, or 7.5%.












Jessica Olah / Investopedia


   Pros and Cons of Short Selling  

Selling short can be costly if the seller guesses wrong about the price movement. A trader who has bought stock can only lose 100% of their outlay if the stock moves to zero.



However, a trader who has shorted stock can lose much more than 100% of their original investment. The risk comes because there is no ceiling for a stock’s price—it can rise “to infinity and beyond,” to coin a phrase from comic character Buzz Lightyear. Also, while the stocks were held, the trader had to fund the margin account. Even if all goes well, traders have to figure in the cost of the margin interest when calculating their profits.





Pros

Possibility of high profits
Little initial capital required
Leveraged investments possible
Hedge against other holdings



Cons

Potentially unlimited losses
Margin account necessary
Margin interest incurred
Short squeezes






When it comes time to close a position, a short seller might have trouble finding enough shares to buy—if a lot of other traders are also shorting the stock or if the stock is thinly traded. Conversely, sellers can get caught in a short squeeze loop if the market, or a particular stock, starts to skyrocket.



On the other hand, strategies that offer high risk also offer a high-yield reward. Short selling is no exception. If the seller predicts the price moves correctly, they can make a tidy return on investment (ROI), primarily if they use margin to initiate the trade. Using margin provides leverage, which means the trader did not need to put up much of their capital as an initial investment. If done carefully, short selling can be an inexpensive way to hedge, providing a counterbalance to other portfolio holdings.



Beginning investors should generally avoid short selling until they get more trading experience under their belts. That being said, short selling through exchange-traded funds (ETFs) is a somewhat safer strategy due to the lower risk of a short squeeze.


   Additional Considerations with Short Selling  

Besides the previously mentioned risk of losing money on a trade from a stock’s price rising, short selling has additional risks that investors should consider.


  Shorting Uses Borrowed Money  

Shorting is known as margin trading. When short selling, you open a margin account, which allows you to borrow money from the brokerage firm using your investment as collateral. Just as when you go long on margin, it’s easy for losses to get out of hand because you must meet the minimum maintenance requirement of 25%. If your account slips below this, you’ll be subject to a margin call and forced to put in more cash or liquidate your position.


  Wrong Timing  

Even though a company is overvalued, it could conceivably take a while for its stock price to decline. In the meantime, you are vulnerable to interest, margin calls, and being called away.


  Short Squeeze  

If a stock is actively shorted with a high short float and days-to-cover ratio (more on that below), it is also at risk of experiencing a short squeeze. A short squeeze happens when a stock begins to rise, and short sellers cover their trades by buying their short positions back. This buying can turn into a feedback loop. Demand for the shares attracts more buyers, which pushes the stock higher, causing even more short sellers to buy back or cover their positions.


  Regulatory Risks  

Regulators may sometimes impose bans on short sales in a specific sector, or even in the broad market, to avoid panic and unwarranted selling pressure. Such actions can cause a sudden spike in stock prices, forcing the short seller to cover short positions at huge losses.


  Going Against the Trend  

History has shown that, in general, stocks have an upward drift. Over the long run, most stocks appreciate in price. For that matter, even if a company barely improves over the years, inflation or the rate of price increase in the economy should drive its stock price up somewhat. This means that shorting is betting against the overall direction of the market.


   Costs of Short Selling  

Unlike buying and holding stocks or investments, short selling involves significant costs, in addition to the usual trading commissions that have to be paid to brokers. Some of the costs include: 


  Margin Interest   

Margin interest can be a significant expense when trading stocks on margin. Since short sales can only be made via margin accounts, the interest payable on short trades can add up over time, especially if short positions are kept open over an extended period.


  Stock Borrowing Costs  

Shares that are difficult to borrow—because of high short interest, limited float, or any other reason—have “hard-to-borrow” fees that can be quite substantial. The fee is based on an annualized rate that can range from a small fraction of a percent to more than 100% of the value of the short trade and is prorated for the number of days that the short trade is open.



As the hard-to-borrow rate can fluctuate substantially from day to day and even on an intraday basis, the exact dollar amount of the fee may not be known in advance. The fee is usually assessed by the broker-dealer to the client’s account either at month-end or upon closing of the short trade—and if it is quite large, can make a big dent in the profitability of a short trade or exacerbate losses on it.


  Dividends and Other Payments  

The short seller is responsible for making dividend payments on the shorted stock to the entity from whom the stock has been borrowed. The short seller is also on the hook for making payments on account of other events associated with the shorted stock, such as share splits, spinoffs, and bonus share issues, all of which are unpredictable events.


   Short Selling Metrics  

Two metrics used to track short-selling activity on a stock are:



Short interest ratio (SIR)—also known as the short float—measures the ratio of shares that are currently shorted compared to the number of shares available or “floating” in the market. A very high SIR is associated with stocks that are falling or stocks that appear to be overvalued.
The short interest to volume ratio—also known as the days-to-cover ratio—is the total shares held short divided by the average daily trading volume of the stock. A high value for the days-to-cover ratio is also a bearish indication for a stock.



Both short-selling metrics help investors understand whether the overall sentiment is bullish or bearish for a stock.



For example, after oil prices declined in 2014, General Electric Co.’s (GE) energy divisions began to drag on the performance of the entire company. The short interest ratio jumped from less than 1% to more than 3.5% in late 2015 as short sellers began anticipating a decline in the stock. By the middle of 2016, GE’s share price had topped out at $33 per share and began to decline. By February 2019, GE had fallen to $10 per share, which would have resulted in a profit of $23 per share to any short sellers lucky enough to short the stock near the top in July 2016.


   Ideal Conditions for Short Selling  

Timing is crucial when it comes to short selling. Stocks typically decline much faster than they advance, and a sizable gain in a stock may be wiped out in a matter of days or weeks on an earnings miss or other bearish development. The short seller thus has to time the short trade to near perfection. Entering the trade too late may result in a huge opportunity cost in terms of lost profits, since a major part of the stock’s decline may have already occurred.



On the other hand, entering the trade too early may make it difficult to hold on to the short position in light of the costs involved and potential losses, which would skyrocket if the stock increases rapidly. 



There are times when the odds of successful shorting improve, such as the following:


  During a Bear Market  

The dominant trend for a stock market or sector is down during a bear market. So traders who believe that “the trend is your friend” have a better chance of making profitable short sale trades during an entrenched bear market than they would during a strong bull phase. Short sellers revel in environments where the market decline is swift, broad, and deep—like the global bear market of 2008–09—because they stand to make windfall profits during such times.


  When Stock or Market Fundamentals Are Deteriorating  

A stock’s fundamentals can deteriorate for any number of reasons—slowing revenue or profit growth, increasing challenges to the business, rising input costs that are putting pressure on margins, and so on. For the broad market, worsening fundamentals could mean a series of weaker data that indicate a possible economic slowdown, adverse geopolitical developments like a threat of war, or bearish technical signals like reaching new highs on decreasing volume, deteriorating market breadth.



Experienced short sellers may prefer to wait until the bearish trend is confirmed before putting on short trades, rather than doing so in anticipation of a downward move. This is because of the risk that a stock or market may trend higher for weeks or months in the face of deteriorating fundamentals, as is typically the case in the final stages of a bull market.


  Technical Indicators Confirm the Bearish Trend  

Short sales may also have a higher probability of success when the bearish trend is confirmed by multiple technical indicators. These indicators could include a breakdown below a key long-term support level or a bearish moving average crossover like the death cross. An example of a bearish moving average crossover occurs when a stock’s 50-day moving average falls below its 200-day moving average. A moving average is merely the average of a stock’s price over a set period of time. If the current price breaks the average, either down or up, it can signal a new trend in price.


  Valuations Reach Elevated Levels Amid Rampant Optimism  

Occasionally, valuations for certain sectors or the market as a whole may reach highly elevated levels amid rampant optimism for the long-term prospects of such sectors or the broad economy. Market professionals call this phase of the investment cycle “priced for perfection,” since investors will invariably be disappointed at some point when their lofty expectations are not met. Rather than rushing in on the short side, experienced short sellers may wait until the market or sector rolls over and commences its downward phase.



John Maynard Keynes was an influential British economist whose economic theories are still in use today. However, Keynes was quoted as saying, “The market can stay irrational longer than you can stay solvent,” which is particularly apt for short selling. The optimal time for short selling is when there is a confluence of the above factors.


   Short Selling’s Reputation  

Sometimes short selling is criticized, and short sellers are viewed as ruthless operators out to destroy companies. However, the reality is that short selling provides liquidity—meaning enough sellers and buyers—to markets and can help prevent bad stocks from rising on hype and over-optimism. Evidence of this benefit can be seen in asset bubbles that disrupt the market. Assets that lead to bubbles such as the mortgage-backed security (MBS) market before the 2008 financial crisis are frequently difficult or nearly impossible to short.



Short-selling activity is a legitimate source of information about market sentiment and demand for a stock. Without this information, investors may be caught off-guard by negative fundamental trends or surprising news.



Unfortunately, short selling gets a bad name due to the practices employed by unethical speculators. These unscrupulous types have used short-selling strategies and derivatives to artificially deflate prices and conduct bear raids on vulnerable stocks. Most forms of market manipulation like this are illegal in the U.S. but still happen periodically.






Put options provide a great alternative to short selling by enabling you to profit from a drop in a stock’s price without the need for margin or leverage. If you’re new to options trading, Investopedia’s Options for Beginners course provides a comprehensive introduction to the world of options. Its five hours of on-demand video, exercises, and interactive content offer real strategies to increase consistency of returns and improve the odds in the investor’s favor.


   Real-World Example of Short Selling  

Unexpected news events can initiate a short squeeze, which may force short sellers to buy at any price to cover their margin requirements. For example, in October 2008, Volkswagen briefly became the most valuable publicly traded company in the world during an epic short squeeze.



In 2008, investors knew that Porsche was trying to build a position in Volkswagen and gain majority control. Short sellers expected that once Porsche had achieved control over the company, the stock would likely fall in value, so they heavily shorted the stock. However, in a surprise announcement, Porsche revealed that they had secretly acquired more than 70% of the company using derivatives, which triggered a massive feedback loop of short sellers buying shares to close their position.



Short sellers were at a disadvantage because 20% of Volkswagen was owned by a government entity that wasn’t interested in selling, and Porsche controlled another 70%, so there were very few shares available on the market—float—to buy back. Essentially, both the short interest and days-to-cover ratio had exploded higher overnight, which caused the stock to jump from the low €200s to more than €1,000.



A characteristic of a short squeeze is that they tend to fade quickly, and within several months, Volkswagen’s stock had declined back to its normal range.




Why is it called selling short?
A short position is one that bets against the market, profiting when prices decline. To sell short is to take such a bet. This is opposed to a long position, which involves buying an asset in hopes that the price will rise.




Why do short sellers have to borrow shares?
You cannot sell something that doesn’t exist. Since a company has a limited number of shares outstanding, a short seller must first locate some of those shares to sell them. The short seller, therefore, borrows those shares from an existing long and pays interest to the lender. This process is often facilitated behind the scenes by one’s broker. If there are not many shares available for shorting (i.e., hard to borrow), then the interest costs to sell short will be higher.




Is short selling bad?
While some people think it is unethical to bet against the market, most economists and financial professionals agree that short sellers provide liquidity and price discovery to a market, making it more efficient.




Can I sell short in my brokerage account?
Many brokers allow short selling in individual accounts, but you must first apply for a margin account.




What is a short squeeze?
Because short sales are sold on margin, relatively small losses can lead to ever larger margin calls. If a margin call cannot be met, the holder of the short position must buy back their shares at ever higher prices. This works to bid the price of the stock even higher.


   The Bottom Line  

Short selling allows investors and traders to make money from a down market. Those with a bearish view can borrow shares on margin and sell them in the market, hoping to repurchase them at some point in the future at a lower price.



While some have criticized short selling as a bet against the market, many economists believe that the ability to sell short makes markets more efficient and can actually be a stabilizing force. Technical traders and analysts often look at a stock’s short interest and other ratios involving short positions to inform trading ideas. However, large short positions can become squeezed due to margin calls. The buying that is required to close short positions can force prices higher and accelerate a rally, making losses to shorts even more severe.
What Is a Short Squeeze?  

A short squeeze is an unusual condition that triggers rapidly rising prices in a stock or other tradable security. It occurs when a security has a significant amount of short sellers, meaning lots of investors are betting on its price falling. The short squeeze begins when the price jumps higher unexpectedly and gains momentum as a significant measure of the short sellers decide to cut losses and exit their positions.





Key Takeaways

A short squeeze happens when many investors bet against a stock and its price shoots up instead.A short squeeze accelerates a stock’s price rise as short sellers bail out to cut their losses.Contrarian investors try to anticipate a short squeeze and buy stocks that demonstrate a strong short interest.Both short sellers and contrarians make risky moves. A wise investor has additional reasons for shorting or buying that stock.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   How Does a Short Squeeze Work?  

When a heavily shorted stock unexpectedly rises in price, the short sellers may have to act fast to limit their losses. Short sellers borrow shares of an asset that they believe will drop in price in order to buy them after they fall. If they’re right, they return the shares and pocket the difference between the price when they initiated the short and the price when they buy the shares back to close out the short position. If they’re wrong, they’re forced to buy at a higher price and pay the difference between the price they set and its sale price.



Because short sellers exit their positions with buy orders, the coincidental exit of these short sellers pushes prices higher. The continued rapid rise in price also attracts buyers to the security. The combination of new buyers and panicked short sellers creates a rapid rise in price that can be stunning and unprecedented.






The flight of short sellers and their impact on a stock’s price are known as a short squeeze. Short sellers are being squeezed out of their positions, usually at a loss.



Short sellers zero in on a stock that they think is overvalued by the market. For example, Tesla Inc. (TSLA) captured the enthusiasm of many investors with its innovative approach to producing and marketing electric vehicles. Investors bet heavily on its potential. Short sellers bet heavily on its failure. In early 2020, Tesla was the most-shorted stock on the U.S. exchanges, with more than 18% of its outstanding stock in short positions.



From late 2019 through early 2020, Tesla stock soared by 400%. Short sellers got hammered, collectively losing about $8 billion. In early March 2020, Tesla’s stock finally fell, along with most others, during a market downturn. However, the stock eventually bounced back, leaving Tesla short sellers collectively nursing losses of more than $40 billion during the course of 2020.






   Why Short Squeezes Happen  

As noted, short sellers open positions on stocks that they believe will decline in price. However sound their reasoning, a positive news story, a product announcement, or an earnings beat that excites the interest of buyers can upend this.



The turnaround in the stock’s fortunes may prove to be temporary. But if it’s not, short sellers can face runaway losses as the expiration date on their positions approaches. They generally opt to sell out immediately, even if it means taking a substantial loss.





18%

The percentage of Tesla stock that represented short interest in late 2019. Its stock price quadrupled, and short sellers lost billions.



That’s where the short squeeze comes in. Every buying transaction by a short seller sends the price higher, forcing another short seller to buy.


   Special Considerations  

When identifying stocks at risk of a short squeeze, two useful measures are short interest and the short interest ratio.



Short interest is the total number of shares sold short as a percentage of the total shares outstanding. The short interest ratio is the total number of shares sold short divided by the stock’s average daily trading volume. Speculative stocks tend to have higher short interest than more stable companies.



Watching short interest can tell you whether investor sentiment about a company is changing. For example, if a stock typically has a 15% to 30% short interest, a move above or below that range could signal that investors have shifted their view of the company. Fewer short shares could mean that the price has risen too high too quickly, or that the short sellers are leaving the stock because it has become too stable.






A positive news story, a product announcement, or an earnings beat that excites the interest of buyers can defeat a short position.



A rise in short interest above the norm indicates that investors have become more bearish. But an extremely high reading could be a sign of a coming short squeeze, which could force the price higher.


  Betting on a Short Squeeze  

Contrarian investors may buy stocks with heavy short interest to exploit the potential for a short squeeze. A rapid rise in the stock price is attractive, but it is not without risks. The stock may be heavily shorted for good reason, such as a dismal future outlook.



Active traders will monitor highly shorted stocks and watch for them to start rising. If the price begins to pick up momentum, the trader jumps in to buy, trying to catch what could be a short squeeze and a significant move higher.


  Risks of Trading Short Squeezes  

There are many examples of stocks that moved higher after they had a heavy short interest. But there are also many heavily shorted stocks that then keep falling in price.



A heavy short interest does not mean that the price will rise. It means that many people believe it will fall. Anyone who buys in hopes of a short squeeze should have other (and better) reasons to think that the price of the stock will go higher.


   Naked Short Selling vs. Short Squeeze   

Naked short selling is short selling a stock without first borrowing the asset from someone else. It’s the practice of selling short shares that have not been affirmatively determined to exist. Per the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), naked short selling is illegal. The naked shorting tactic is high risk but also poses a high reward.



Naked shorting still happens thanks to discrepancies between electronic and paper trading. Naked shorting can help exacerbate short squeezes by allowing for additional shorting that otherwise might not exist. Naked short selling is said to help balance the market. That is, naked shorting can force a price drop, which leads to some share sales to cut losses, allowing the market to effectively find balance. 


   Example of a Short Squeeze  

Consider a hypothetical biotech company, Medicom, which has a drug candidate in advanced clinical trials.



There is considerable skepticism among investors about whether this drug will actually work. As a result, there is heavy short interest. In fact, 5 million Medicom shares have been sold short of its 25 million shares outstanding. This means that the short interest in Medicom is 20%, and with daily trading volume averaging one million shares, the short interest ratio is five. The short interest ratio, also called days to cover, means that it will take five days for short sellers to buy back all Medicom shares that have been sold short.



Assume that because of the huge short interest, Medicom shares had declined from $15 a few months ago to $5. Then, the news comes out that Medicom’s drug works better than expected. Medicom’s shares jump to $9, as speculators buy the stock and short sellers scramble to cover their short positions.



Everyone who shorted the stock between $9 and $5 is now in a losing position. Those who sold short near $5 are facing the biggest losses and will be frantically looking to get out because they are losing 80% of their investment.



The stock opens at $9, but it will continue to rally for the next several days as the shorts continue to cover their positions and the rising price and positive news attract new buyers.


   GameStop Short Squeeze  

A notable short squeeze occurred among traders and investors of GameStop Corp. (GME) during the months following the COVID-19 pandemic. With consumers locked down and stores often closed, analysts and investors expected the company to potentially face bankruptcy because of a rise in competition and a decline in foot traffic at brick-and-mortar stores. GME became a favorite target of short sellers. The short interest had grown so dramatically that it amounted to more than 100% of the shares outstanding.



That led Scion Asset Management’s Michael Burry to develop a bull case for the company: that it could return to profit in a couple of years instead of going bankrupt. His thesis was published and repeated by Reddit and YouTube content creators midway through 2020. Michael Burry and Chewy co-founder Ryan Cohen also took a long position.



Enough investors started buying the stock late in 2020 and the share price began to rise noticeably late in 2020. From there, it was a snowball effect of retail investors buying stock and call options. The price increase drove out some short sellers and attracted various big-name investors and public figures, such as Elon Musk and venture capitalist Chamath Palihapitiya.



GameStop’s stock price surged due to a short squeeze on major hedge funds that were short the stock and forced to sell to cut losses. The stock price went from less than $5 a share to $325 in just a month.




What Is Days to Cover, and Is It Useful for Identifying Short Squeeze Targets?
Days to cover, also known as the short interest ratio, is calculated by taking a stock’s total number of shares sold short and dividing that number by the stock’s average daily trading volume. For example, if a stock has one million shares sold short and its average daily trading volume is 100,000 shares, then the days to cover would be 10 days. That is, it would take 10 days for short sellers to cover their entire short position based on the average daily volume of shares traded. In general, the higher a stock’s days-to-cover figure, the more susceptible it may be to a short squeeze. If days to cover for stock A and stock B are two days and 20 days, respectively, then stock B may be more vulnerable as a short squeeze target.




Who Loses and Who Benefits From a Short Squeeze?
Speculators and traders who have short positions in a stock will face heavy losses if the stock undergoes a short squeeze. Contrarian investors who have built up long positions in the stock in anticipation of a short squeeze will benefit as the stock price climbs.




Where Can I Find Information on Stocks with High Short Interest?
Finance portals such as Yahoo! Finance have free stock screeners that generate lists of heavily shorted stocks; drilling down into individual stocks displays relevant short-selling information such as the number of shares sold short and the short interest ratios for specific companies. Online resources like MarketBeat provide useful short-selling data such as the largest short interest positions, changes in such positions over time, and short interest ratio. Exchanges such as the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq also publish short interest data for the exchanges as a whole.




What Was the Biggest Short Squeeze in History?
During the 2008 financial crisis, Porsche Automobile Holding SE (POAHY), already a major holder of Volkswagen AG (VWAGY) shares, increased its total stake in Volkswagen to about 75%. The state of Lower Saxony also owned more than 20% of the company, leaving few remaining shares available to trade at a time when the stock was being heavily shorted. Hedge funds and other short sellers were suddenly left in a tricky position as Porsche’s move meant that not all of them could cover their positions. Against this backdrop, short sellers were forced to buy back the shares they sold, which helped drive Volkswagen’s share price up to €999.


   The Bottom Line  

A short squeeze can seemingly happen suddenly with price rising parabolically. But often short squeezes are fueled by unusually high short interest in the underlying security. When something happens which drives the price of the stock up, the short sellers rush for the exits all at once, attempting to buy to close their positions. This adds fuel to the force propelling the stock price higher and irrationality sets in. What happened to Game Stop's share price in 2021 is a good example of a short squeeze in action.
What Is Short-Term Debt?  

Short-term debt, also called current liabilities, is a firm's financial obligations that are expected to be paid off within a year. It is listed under the current liabilities portion of the total liabilities section of a company's balance sheet.












Investopedia / Madelyn Goodnight


   Understanding Short-Term Debt  

There are usually two types of debt, or liabilities, that a company accrues—financing and operating. The former is the result of actions undertaken to raise funding to grow the business, while the latter is the byproduct of obligations arising from normal business operations.



Financing debt is normally considered to be long-term debt in that it is has a maturity date longer than 12 months and is usually listed after the current liabilities portion in the total liabilities section of the balance sheet.



Operating debt arises from the primary activities that are required to run a business, such as accounts payable, and is expected to be resolved within 12 months, or within the current operating cycle, of its accrual. This is known as short-term debt and is usually made up of short-term bank loans taken out, or commercial paper issued, by a company,



The value of the short-term debt account is very important when determining a company's performance. Simply put, the higher the debt to equity ratio, the greater the concern about company liquidity. If the account is larger than the company's cash and cash equivalents, this suggests that the company may be in poor financial health and does not have enough cash to pay off its impending obligations.



The most common measure of short-term liquidity is the quick ratio which is integral in determining a company's credit rating that ultimately affects that company's ability to procure financing.



Quick ratio = (current assets - inventory) / current liabilities





Key Takeaways

Short-term debt, also called current liabilities, is a firm's financial obligations that are expected to be paid off within a year.Common types of short-term debt include short-term bank loans, accounts payable, wages, lease payments, and income taxes payable.The most common measure of short-term liquidity is the quick ratio which is integral in determining a company's credit rating.


   Types of Short-Term Debt  

The first, and often the most common, type of short-term debt is a company's short-term bank loans. These types of loans arise on a business's balance sheet when the company needs quick financing in order to fund working capital needs. It's also known as a "bank plug," because a short-term loan is often used to fill a gap between longer financing options.



Another common type of short-term debt is a company's accounts payable. This liabilities account is used to track all outstanding payments due to outside vendors and stakeholders. If a company purchases a piece of machinery for $10,000 on short-term credit, to be paid within 30 days, the $10,000 is categorized among accounts payable.



Commercial paper is an unsecured, short-term debt instrument issued by a corporation, typically for the financing of accounts receivable, inventories, and meeting short-term liabilities such as payroll. Maturities on commercial paper rarely range longer than 270 days. Commercial paper is usually issued at a discount from face value and reflects prevailing market interest rates, and is useful because these liabilities do not need to be registered with the SEC.



Sometimes, depending on the way in which employers pay their employees, salaries and wages may be considered short-term debt. If, for example, an employee is paid on the 15th of the month for work performed in the previous period, it would create a short-term debt account for the owed wages, until they are paid on the 15th.



Lease payments can also sometimes be booked as short-term debt. Most leases are considered long-term debt, but there are leases that are expected to be paid off within one year. If a company, for example, signs a six-month lease on an office space, it would be considered short-term debt.



Finally, taxes are sometimes categorized as short-term debt. If a company owes quarterly taxes that have yet to be paid, it could be considered a short-term liability and be categorized as short-term debt.
What Are Short-Term Investments?  

Short-term investments, also known as marketable securities or temporary investments, are financial investments that can easily be converted to cash, typically within five years. Many short-term investments are sold or converted to cash after a period of only three-12 months. Some common examples of short-term investments include CDs, money market accounts, high-yield savings accounts, government bonds, and Treasury bills. Usually, these investments are high-quality and highly liquid assets or investment vehicles.



Short-term investments may also refer specifically to financial assets—of a similar kind, but with a few additional requirements—that are owned by a company. Recorded in a separate account, and listed in the current assets section of the corporate balance sheet, short-term investments in this context are investments that a company has made that are expected to be converted into cash within one year.



Short-term investments can be contrasted with long-term investments.





Key Takeaways

Short-term investments, also known as marketable securities or temporary investments, are financial investments that can easily be converted to cash, typically within 5 years.Short-term investments can also refer to the holdings a company owns but intends to sell within a year.Common examples of short-term investments include CDs, money market accounts, high-yield savings accounts, government bonds, and Treasury bills.Although short-term investments typically offer lower rates of return, they are highly liquid and give investors the flexibility to withdraw money quickly, if needed.Any increases or decreases in the value of a company's short-term investments are directly reflected on a company's income statement for the quarter.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   How Short-Term Investments Work  

The goal of a short-term investment—for both companies and individual or institutional investors—is to protect capital while also generating a return similar to a Treasury bill index fund or another similar benchmark.



Companies in a strong cash position will have a short-term investments account on their balance sheet. As a result, the company can afford to invest excess cash in stocks, bonds, or cash equivalents to earn higher interest than what would be earned from a normal savings account.



There are two basic requirements for a company to classify an investment as short-term. First, it must be liquid, like a stock listed on a major exchange that trades frequently or U.S. Treasury bonds. Second, the management must intend to sell the security within a relatively short period, such as 12 months. Marketable debt securities, aka "short-term paper," that mature within a year or less, such as U.S. Treasury bills and commercial paper, also count as short-term investments.



Marketable equity securities include investments in common and preferred stock. Marketable debt securities can include corporate bonds—that is, bonds issued by another company—but they also need to have short maturity dates and should be actively traded to be considered liquid.


   Short-Term Investments vs. Long-Term Investments  

Unlike long-term investments, which are designed to be bought and held for a period of at least a year, short-term investments are bought knowing they will be quickly sold. Typically, long-term investors are willing to accept a higher level of volatility or risk, with the idea that these "bumps" will eventually smooth out over a long period—as long as, of course, the investment is growing in a positive trajectory






Long-term investments are also used by individuals that are able to stow away their money and don't have immediate needs for it (such as to buy a car or a house).


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Short-Term Investments  

Short-term investments help ground an investor's portfolio. Although they typically offer lower rates of return compared to investing in an index fund over time, they are highly liquid investments that give investors the flexibility of making money they can withdraw quickly, if needed.



For a business, long-term investments are not counted as income until they are sold. This means that companies that decide to hold or invest in short-term investments count any fluctuations in price at the market rate. This means short-term investments that decline in value are marked down as a loss for the company on the income statement.





Pros

Short-term investment gains are reflected directly on the income statement.
Short-term investments take on lower risk, making them stable options.
Short-term investments help diversify income types, in case of market volatility.



Cons

Short-term investments typically have lower rates of return.
Any declines in value of a short-term investment will directly affect the net income of a business.





   Examples of Short-Term Investments  

Some common short-term investments and strategies used by corporations and individual investors include:



Certificates of deposit¡ (CDs): These deposits are offered by banks and typically pay a higher interest rate because they lock up cash for a given period. These periods usually range from several months up to five years. They are FDIC-insured for up to $250,000.
Money market accounts: Returns on these FDIC-insured accounts will beat those on savings accounts, but require a minimum investment. Keep in mind that money market accounts differ from money market mutual funds, which are not FDIC-insured.
Treasuries: There are a variety of these government-issued bonds, such as notes, bills, floating-rate notes, and Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS).
Bond funds: Offered by professional asset managers/investment companies, these funds are better for a shorter time frame and can offer better-than-average returns for the risk. Just be aware of the fees.
Municipal bonds: These bonds, issued by local, state, or non-federal government agencies, can offer higher yields and tax advantages since they are often exempt from income taxes.
Peer-to-peer (P2P) lending: Excess cash can be put into play via one of these lending platforms that match borrowers to lenders.
Roth IRAs: For individuals, these vehicles can offer flexibility and a variety of investment options. Contributions, but not gains, to Roth IRAs can be withdrawn at any time, without penalty or taxes due.






If you have excess cash, using it to pay off higher-interest debt may be more advantageous than investing it in low-risk but low-return short-term investments.


   Real-World Example of Short-Term Investments  

On its quarterly statement dated Apr. 21, 2022, Microsoft Corp. reported holding $92.2 billion of short-term investments on its balance sheet. The biggest component was U.S. government securities, which was $78.4 billion. This was followed by corporate notes/bonds worth $11.7 billion, mortgage/asset-backed securities at $590 million, foreign government bonds worth $501 million, municipal securities at $269 million, and certificates of deposit (CDs) at $2 billion.




What Are the Best Short-Term Investments?
Some of the best short-term investment options include short-dated CDs, money market accounts, high-yield savings accounts, government bonds, and Treasury bills. Check their current interest rates or rates of return to discover which is best for you.




Where Can I Invest for 6 Months?
Common short-term investment vehicles include six-month CDs, money market accounts, high-yield savings accounts, government bonds, and Treasury bills.




What Is the Best Way to Invest $5,000?
Based on experience and risk tolerance, investors will differ on this question. However, many financial analysts will say the best way to invest $5,000 is to put it in a mutual fund or exchange-traded fund that tracks the S&P 500 and keep it for the long run.




What Can You Invest in With Little Money?
Individuals with only a little bit of cash have a lot of options. They can put the money in any investments that don't require a minimum balance, such as certain savings accounts, fractional shares of an index fund, or even cheaper stocks, bonds, and CDs.


   The Bottom Line  

Short-term investments can be great investments for individual investors and corporations who are looking for both liquid and stable options to grow their wealth. The options are plenty: from CDs to bonds and high-yield savings accounts, it's only up to each investor to do their homework.
What Is a Shortfall?  

A shortfall is an amount by which a financial obligation or liability exceeds the required amount of cash that is available. A shortfall can be temporary, arising out of a unique set of circumstances, or it can be persistent, in which case it may indicate poor financial management practices. Regardless of the nature of a shortfall, it is a significant concern for a company and is usually corrected promptly through short-term loans or equity injections.





Key Takeaways

A shortfall refers to any financial obligation or liability that is greater than the cash on hand required to satisfy that obligation.Shortfalls can be temporary or persistent; the latter indicating poor financial management.Methods to resolve a shortfall include loans, equity injections, and improved cash management procedures.Temporary shortfalls can be mitigated by using hedging strategies to reduce the impact of adverse price movements.


   Understanding a Shortfall  

A shortfall can refer to a current situation as well as one predicted for the future. A shortfall applies to any situation where the level of funds required to meet an obligation is not available. Shortfalls can occur in the business arena as well as for individuals. Temporary shortfalls often occur in response to an unexpected event, while long-term shortfalls may be related to overall business operations.



Consumers all face shortfalls when they do not have enough funds to pay for things like groceries or bills. Credit or debit card overdraft protection is one way to deal with short-term consumer shortfalls.


   Types of Shortfalls  
  Temporary Shortfalls  

A temporary shortfall for a small company may arise when an equipment failure at its production facility impedes output and results in lower revenues in a particular month. In this case, the company may resort to short-term borrowing to meet payroll and other operating expenses. Often, once the issue that led to the shortfall is corrected, business operations return to normal, and the shortfall is no longer a concern.



In the consumer market, an escrow shortfall may occur when the amount of funds deposited into the escrow account, often paid along with a mortgage payment, fail to meet the obligations associated with the escrow funds, such as property taxes or homeowner’s insurance. In these cases, consumers are notified of the shortfall and may be presented with the option of paying the entire amount at once or by increasing the monthly charge associated with their mortgage payment to cover the difference.


  Long-Term Shortfalls  

A typical long-term shortfall is the pension shortfall faced by many organizations whose pension obligations exceed the returns they can generate from their pension assets. This situation generally occurs when returns from equity markets are well below average.



If a retirement fund is considered underfunded it is critical to rectify the shortfall. If the contribution rate is not raised, it can result in an increase in the shortfall in the pension account that may be difficult to remedy later. In response to a shortfall threat, government officials can propose possible solutions, such as raising revenue through new taxes or redirecting funds from cuts in other areas to attempt to bring a fund up to a sustainable level.


   Shortfall Risk Mitigation  

Shortfall risk can be mitigated using efficient hedging strategies, which aim to offer protection from adverse price movements. As an example, resource companies often sell part of their future output in the forward market, especially if they are expecting to incur substantial capital expenditures in the future. Such hedging helps to ensure that the finances required for a future financial obligation are available.


   Real World Example  

As of July 2020, the New Jersey pension fund for public workers is severely underfunded. The fund has approximately $35 billion in liabilities and a little over $23 billion in assets to cover the obligations, which is a shortfall of approximately 34%. The pension covers over 295,000 active and retired workers.﻿﻿



The pension is considered to be the worst managed in the country and despite increased contributions, the fund remains in shortfall. Reasons for the shortfall include a reduction in the rate of return and increased member life expectancy. That being said, actuaries claim that the state is not nearly contributing enough to close the shortfall.
What Is Shrinkage?  

Shrinkage is the loss of inventory that can be attributed to factors such as employee theft, shoplifting, administrative error, vendor fraud, damage, and cashier error. Shrinkage is the difference between recorded inventory on a company’s balance sheet and its actual inventory. This concept is a key problem for retailers, as it results in the loss of inventory, which ultimately means loss of profits. 





Key Takeaways

Shrinkage describes the loss of inventory due to circumstances such as shoplifting, vendor fraud, employee theft, and administrative error.The difference between the recorded inventory and the actual inventory is measured by shrinkage.Shrinkage results in a loss of profits due to inventory bought but not able to be sold.


   Why Is Understanding Shrinkage Important?  

Shrinkage is the difference between the recorded (book) inventory and the actual (physical) inventory. Book inventory uses the dollar value to track the exact amount of inventory that should be on hand for a retailer. When a retailer receives a product to sell, it records the dollar value of the inventory on its balance sheet as a current asset.



For example, if a retailer accepts $1 million of product, then the inventory account increases by $1 million. Every time an item is sold, the inventory account is reduced by the cost of the product, and revenue is recorded for the amount of the sale.



However, inventory is often lost due to any number of reasons, causing a discrepancy between the book inventory and the physical inventory. The difference between these two inventory types is shrinkage. In the example above, the book inventory is $1 million, but if the retailer checks the physical inventory and realizes it is $900,000, then a certain part of the inventory is lost and the shrinkage is $100,000.


   What Is the Impact of Shrinkage?  

The largest impact of shrinkage is a loss of profits. This is especially negative in retail environments, where businesses operate on low margins and high volumes, meaning that retailers have to sell a large amount of product to make a profit. If a retailer loses inventory through shrinkage, it cannot recoup the cost of the inventory itself as there is no inventory to sell or inventory to return, which trickles down to decrease the bottom line.



Shrinkage is a part of every retail company’s reality, and some businesses try to cover the potential decrease in profits by increasing the price of available products to account for the losses in inventory. These increased prices are passed on to the consumer, who is required to bear the burden for theft and inefficiencies that might cause a loss of product. If a consumer is price sensitive, then shrinkage decreases a company’s consumer base, causing them to look elsewhere for similar goods.



In addition, shrinkage can increase a company’s costs in other areas. For example, retailers would have to invest heavily in additional security, whether that investment is in security guards, technology, or other essentials, to prevent shrinkage that was caused by theft. These costs work to further reduce profits, or to increase prices if the expenses are passed on to the customer.




What are the causes of shrinkage?
Shrinkage is caused from the loss of inventory due to shoplifting, administrative error, employee theft, vendor fraud, and broken items, among other reasons.




How do you control shrinkage?
To help prevent shrinkage, businesses can conduct inventory audits, install surveillance cameras, thoroughly review vendors, and set up theft prevention training for employees.




How Is Shrinkage Calculated in Retail?
To calculate shrinkage in a retail store, you would look at the book inventory, which represents the inventory received and should be present in the store, and then subtract the actual amount of inventory, which is the amount of goods that are physically in the store.




How Much Is Lost to Shrinkage Annually?
According to a study from the National Retail Foundation, retail businesses lost $62 billion from “shrink” in 2019, amounting to an average of 1.6% of sales.




What Are Retailers Prioritizing to Reduce Risk of Loss?
Nearly 30% of retailers reported that ecommerce crime has become a much higher priority over the last five years, followed by organized retail crime (ORC) (28%) and internal theft (20%).


   The Bottom Line  

Shrinkage is the loss of inventory or cash from a business due to factors such as theft, damage, or administrative errors. Shrinkage can have a significant impact on a company's bottom line, as it reduces profits and can lead to cash flow problems. Businesses should take proactive measures to minimize shrinkage, such as implementing security measures, conducting regular inventory audits, and training employees on proper procedures. While some degree of shrinkage is inevitable, businesses that effectively manage shrinkage can improve their financial performance and remain competitive.
What Is a Shutdown Point?  

A shutdown point is a level of operations at which a company experiences no benefit for continuing operations and therefore decides to shut down temporarily—or in some cases permanently. It results from the combination of output and price where the company earns just enough revenue to cover its total variable costs. The shutdown point denotes the exact moment when a company’s (marginal) revenue is equal to its variable (marginal) costs—in other words, it occurs when the marginal profit becomes negative.





Key Takeaways

A shutdown point is a level of operations at which a company experiences no benefit for continuing operations and therefore decides to shut down temporarily—or in some cases permanently.A shutdown point results from the combination of output and price where the company earns just enough revenue to cover its total variable costs.Shutdown points are based entirely on determining at what point the marginal costs associated with operation exceed the revenue being generated by those operations.When a company can earn a positive contribution margin, it should remain in operation despite an overall marginal loss.


   How the Shutdown Point Works  

At the shutdown point, there is no economic benefit to continuing production. If an additional loss occurs, either through a rise in variable costs or a fall in revenue, the cost of operating will outweigh the revenue.



At that point, shutting down operations is more practical than continuing. If the reverse occurs, continuing production is more practical. If a company can produce revenues greater or equal to its total variable costs, it can use the additional revenues to pay down its fixed costs, assuming fixed costs, such as lease contracts or other lengthy obligations, will still be incurred when the firm shuts down. When a company can earn a positive contribution margin, it should remain in operation despite an overall marginal loss.






A shutdown point can apply to all of the operations a business participates in or just a portion of its operations.


   Special Considerations  

The shutdown point does not include an analysis of fixed costs in its determination. It is based entirely on determining at what point the marginal costs associated with operation exceed the revenue being generated by those operations.



Certain seasonal businesses, such as Christmas tree farmers, may shut down almost entirely during the off-season. While fixed costs remain during the shutdown, variable costs can be eliminated.



Fixed costs are the costs that remain regardless of what operations are taking place. This can include payments to maintain the rights to the facility, such as rent or mortgage payments, along with any minimum utilities that must be maintained. Minimum staffing costs are considered fixed if a certain number of employees must be maintained even when operations cease.



Variable costs are more closely tied to actual operations. This can include but is not limited to, employee wages for those whose positions are tied directly to production, certain utility costs, or the cost of the materials required for production.


   Types of Shutdown Points  

The length of a shutdown may be temporary or permanent, depending on the nature of the economic conditions leading to the shutdown. For non-seasonal goods, an economic recession may reduce demand from consumers, forcing a temporary shutdown (in full or in part) until the economy recovers.



Other times, demand dries up completely due to changing consumer preferences or technological change. For instance, nobody produces cathode-ray tube (CRT) televisions or computer monitors any longer, and it would be a losing prospect to open a factory these days to produce them.



Other businesses may experience fluctuations or produce some goods year-round, while others are only produced seasonally. For example, Cadbury chocolate bars are produced year-round, while Cadbury Cream Eggs are considered a seasonal product. The main operations, focused on the chocolate bars, may remain operational year-round, while the cream egg operations may go through periods of a shutdown during the off-season.
When cash flow is tight, several different types of personal loans offer a possible solution. Signature loans offer the best terms—they only require your signature as collateral and typically offer more attractive rates than other types of unsecured debt. Explore the ins and outs of signature loans and decide if one is right for you.





Key Takeaways

A signature loan uses the borrower’s signature and promises to pay as the sole collateral for receiving the loan.Interest rates on signature loans are generally higher than other forms of credit due to the lack of collateral.Lenders grant signature loans if they deem the borrower has enough income and a good credit history.


   What Is a Signature Loan?  

A signature loan, also known as a “good faith loan” or “character loan,” is a type of personal loan offered by banks and other finance companies that only requires the borrower’s signature and a promise to pay rather than physical collateral such as a car title or a home. A signature loan can typically be used for any purpose the borrower chooses. Interest rates may be higher than other forms of credit due to the lack of collateral but may be lower than other forms of unsecured credit such as credit cards.


   Understanding a Signature Loan  

To determine whether to grant a signature loan, a lender typically looks for a solid credit history and sufficient income to repay the loan. In some cases, the lender may require a co-signer on the loan, but the co-signer is only called upon in the event the original lender defaults on payments.



Signature loans are one type of unsecured term loan. Unsecured refers to the fact these loans are not secured by any form of physical collateral, unlike home mortgages and car loans. Term means the loan is amortized over a predetermined time period and paid off in equal monthly installments.


   Signature Loan vs. Revolving Credit  

Applications for regular credit or revolving credit loans normally trigger a funding delay while the banking institution or loan company examines the borrower’s credit history and checks personal qualifications. By contrast, the funds obtained through signature loans are deposited in the borrower’s account more quickly, allowing earlier allocation to financial needs.



As soon as a signature loan is paid off, the account is closed, and the borrower needs to apply for a new loan if they require additional funds. In contrast, a revolving credit account allows the indebted party to repay the loan and maintain the line of credit until the borrower or lender chooses to end the relationship and close the account.


   Examples of Signature Loans  

Borrowers use signature loans for a range of purposes, including home improvements, unexpected expenses, medical bills, vacations, and other large expenditures. Some borrowers also use signature loans to consolidate other debts.






Adding a co-signer on a signature loan may help a borrower with a minimal credit history or a low income.



Let's say a borrower gets a signature loan with a 7% interest rate for an amount equal to the total of balances that they are carrying on credit cards, with rates ranging from 12% to 20%. The borrower then uses the signature loan to pay off the credit cards in full. The borrower will realize distinct savings by repaying the same amount of money at 7% rather than at the former higher rates.



If you're thinking about taking out a signature loan, then a personal loan calculator could be useful for figuring out what the monthly payment and total interest should be for the amount you're looking to borrow.




How Are Signature Loans Different Than Personal Loans?
A signature loan is a type of personal loan. It's different than other kinds of personal loans because it's unsecured. The only collateral is the borrower’s signature and a promise to pay.




Who Are Signature Loans Typically Good For?
Borrowers with good credit are typically candidates for signature loans because they have established a record of paying debts and are a low risk for defaulting. People with poor credit may still be able to secure a signature loan with the help of a co-signer.




How Much Do People Borrow With a Signature Loan?
They can start at as little as $500 and go up to $50,000. However, keep in mind that not all banks and credit unions offer signature loans.


   The Bottom Line  

Signature loans are a type of personal loan requiring only a promise to pay as collateral. While in the past they were typically made to people with poor credit, today they are pretty much reserved for customers with better credit scores. Remember that not all banks offer signature loans, and interest rates tend to be higher than with secured loans.
What Is a Silent Partner?  

A silent partner is an individual whose involvement in a partnership is limited to providing capital to the business. A silent partner is seldom involved in the partnership's daily operations and does not generally participate in management meetings. Silent partners are also known as limited partners, since their liability is typically limited to the amount invested in the partnership.



Apart from providing capital, an effective silent partner can benefit an enterprise by giving guidance when solicited, providing business contacts to develop the business, and stepping in for mediation when a dispute arises between other partners.



Regardless of such requests, it is considered a background role that cedes control to the general partner. This requires the silent partner to have full confidence in the general partner's ability to grow the business. The silent partner also may need to ensure that their management styles or corporate visions are compatible.


   How Silent Partners Work  

As with other partnership agreements, a silent partnership generally calls for a formal agreement in writing. Prior to the formation of a silent partnership, the business must be registered either as a general partnership or a limited liability partnership per state regulations.





Key Takeaways

Entrepreneurs with limited capital often seek out a silent partner to help get a business off the ground.While not active in daily management, a silent partner still may serve an advisory role.A silent partner can earn a passive income from an investment should the business become profitable.



All parties will be responsible for ensuring the business's financial obligations are met, including any general expenses or applicable taxes, except those that are exempt if the partnership is formed as part of a limited liability company (LLC).



A partnership agreement designates which parties are general partners or silent partners. This serves as an outline to which functions, both financial and operational, the general partner will perform as well as the financial obligations that are assumed by the silent partner. Additionally, it includes the earnings percentage due to each partner in regard to business profits.



Silent partners are liable for any losses up to their invested capital amount, as well as any liability they have assumed as part of the creation of the business. Participating as a silent partner is a suitable form of investment for those who want to have a stake in a growing business without exposing themselves to unlimited liability.



Contracts should include terms for buying out the ownership stake held by a silent partner or otherwise dissolving the partnership. An entrepreneur starting a business might welcome the capital provided by a silent partner when getting their business off the ground. However, if the business becomes successful, it may become preferable to buy out the silent partner rather than share profits long-term.






Buyout terms in a contract should address the possibility of an outside investor buying out a silent partner.



As well, a silent partner might wish to dissolve a contract after a certain period if they determine the business is unlikely to become profitable. However the contract is structured, the silent partner will expect a certain minimum return on investment if the business becomes profitable. Their risk will likely also be limited to no more than the capital invested.
What Is the Silk Route?  

The Silk Route was a historic trade route that dated from the second century B.C. until the 14th century A.D. It stretched from Asia to the Mediterranean, traversing China, India, Persia, Arabia, Greece, and Italy.



It was dubbed the Silk Route because of the heavy silk trading that took place during that period. This valuable fabric originated in China, which initially had a monopoly on silk production until the secrets of its creation spread. In addition to silk, the route facilitated the trade of other fabrics, spices, grains, fruits and vegetables, animal hides, wood and metal work, precious stones, and other items of value.



In 2013, China announced plans it would revive the Silk Route, connecting it with more than 60 countries in Asia, Europe, Africa, and the Middle East.


   Understanding the Silk Route  

The Silk Route was a series of ancient trade networks that connected China and the Far East with countries in Europe and the Middle East. The route included a group of trading posts and markets that were used to help in the storage, transport, and exchange of goods. It was also known as the Silk Road.



Travelers used camel or horse caravans and stayed in guest houses or inns typically spaced one day’s travel apart. Travelers along the Silk Route’s maritime routes could stop at ports for fresh drinking water and trade opportunities. Archaeologists and geographers pursuing research of ancient sites have been the Silk Route’s most modern travelers.



The opening of the Silk Route brought many products that would have a big impact on the West. Many of these commodities had their roots in China and included gunpowder and paper. These became some of the most traded goods between China and its Western trading partners. Paper was especially important, as it eventually led to the invention of the printing press, which gave way to newspapers and books.



There has been a push by China to reopen the Silk Route to improve cooperation among countries in Asia, Africa, and Europe.


   History of the Silk Route  

The original Silk Route was established during the Han Dynasty by Zhang Quian, a Chinese official and diplomat. During a diplomatic mission, Quian was captured and detained for 13 years on his first expedition before escaping and pursuing other routes from China to Central Asia.



The Silk Route was popular during the Tang Dynasty, from 618 to 907 A.D. Travelers could choose among a number of land and sea paths to reach their destination. The routes evolved along with territorial boundaries and changes in national leadership.



The Silk Route was a means to exchange goods and cultures. It also served in the development of science, technology, literature, the arts, and other fields of study.



The Silk Route also helped missions by Buddhist and European monks and was instrumental in spreading Buddhism, Christianity, Islam, Hinduism, and other religions throughout the regions served by the routes.


   Reviving the Silk Route  

In 2013, China began to officially restore the historic Silk Route under president Xi Jinping with a $900 billion strategy called “One Belt, One Road” (OBOR). The project was a way to improve China’s interconnectivity with more than 60 other countries in Asia, Europe, and East Africa.



Also known as the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), it traverses numerous land and sea routes. The Silk Road Economic Belt is primarily land-based to connect China with Central Asia, Eastern Europe, and Western Europe, while the 21st Century Maritime Silk Road is sea-based, connecting China’s southern coast to the Mediterranean, Africa, South-East Asia, and Central Asia.



China views the venture as an important way to improve its domestic growth. It also serves as a way to open up new trade markets for Chinese goods, giving the country the cheapest and easiest way to export materials and goods.






Critics—including Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad—say China is using the BRI to lend to countries who may default as a way of getting economic or political concessions.



China has passed several milestones related to the OBOR including the signing of hundreds of deals since 2016. In January 2017, a new rail service using the East Wind freight train was introduced from Beijing to London along the historic route, passing beneath the English Channel to reach London. The 16- to 18-day journey, travels nearly 7,500 miles and allows freight shippers an alternative to slow but relatively cheap water routes, and fast but relatively expensive air routes. Other key OBOR routes go from China to 14 major European cities.
What Is a Silo Mentality?  

A silo mentality is a reluctance to share information with employees of different divisions in the same company. This attitude is seen as reducing the organization's efficiency and, at worst, contributing to a damaged corporate culture.





Key Takeaways

A silo mentality is the unwillingness to share information or knowledge between employees or across different departments within a company.The silo mentality usually begins with competition among senior managers.Successful firms encourage and facilitate a free flow of information.Silos can create low morale, negatively impact workflows, and ultimately adversely affect the customer experience.


   Understanding a Silo Mentality  

The word silo originally referred to storage containers for grain or missiles, but it is now used as a metaphor for separate entities that stockpile information and effectively seal it in. In business, organizational silos refer to business divisions that operate independently and avoid sharing information. It also refers to businesses whose departments have silo' system applications, in which information cannot be shared because of system limitations.



The silo mentality is generally seen as a top-down issue arising from competition between senior managers. The protective attitude towards information begins with management and is passed down to individual employees. It also may be seen between individual employees, who may hoard information for their benefit. It is often found between employees of competing departments, such as marketing and sales, where some assigned duties overlap.



It's not always a matter of clashing egos. A silo mentality can reflect a narrow vision. The employees are so bogged down in their daily chores that they never see the bigger picture or see themselves as having a critical role in that bigger picture. Or they may be utterly unaware of the value to others of the information they're sitting on.



No matter what the reasons for it are, a silo mentality exists because senior management allows it to exist.






Managers of successful firms generally encourage the free flow of information between departments so that all aspects of the company can function effectively.



The lack of cross-departmental communication can negatively impact workflow as information is not passed freely across the organization. This can leave some departments working with inaccurate or out-of-date information. These and other operational inefficiencies resulting from silos also complicate how companies deliver value to customers and adversely affect profitability.



A silo mentality inevitably damages morale, especially when employees become aware of the problem and are unable to do anything to change it.


   Special Considerations  

Attitudes are difficult to change, especially when self-interest is at stake. A writer for salesforce.com suggests that the keys to dismantling silos are "cooperation, communication, and collaboration." Some of the specific suggestions for management changes include:



Create and communicate a unified vision that is shared across departments to encourage collaborative sharing of information.
Install company-wide software that records and tracks progress towards the company's goals, and give all employees access to it.
Hold interdepartmental events such as training seminars that allow employees to get to know and respect each other.
Consider altering the employee compensation structure so that it rewards progress towards company-wide goals.
What Is a Simple Agreement for Future Tokens (SAFT)?  

A simple agreement for future tokens (SAFT) is an investment contract offered by cryptocurrency developers to accredited investors. Because SAFTs are considered securities, these tokens must comply with securities regulations.



Raising funds through the sale of digital currency requires more than just building a blockchain. Investors want to know what they are getting into, whether or not the currency will be viable, and if they will be legally protected.



While a company that decides to raise money through cryptocurrency could bypass using a formal framework to tap into global financial markets, it needs to adhere to international, federal, and state law. One way to do this is by using a SAFT.





Key Takeaways

A simple agreement for future tokens (SAFT) is a security issued for the eventual transfer of digital tokens from cryptocurrency developers to investors.SAFTs were created to help cryptocurrency ventures fundraise without violating regulations.A SAFT can be compared to a simple agreement for future equity (SAFE), which allows startup investors to convert their cash investment into equity at a point in the future.


   Understanding Simple Agreement for Future Tokens (SAFTs)  

A SAFT is a form of an investment contract. They were created as a way to help new cryptocurrency ventures raise money without breaking financial regulations, specifically, regulations that govern when an investment is considered a security.



The speed at which cryptocurrencies have grown has far outpaced the speed at which regulators have addressed legal issues. It wasn’t until 2017 that the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) provided substantial guidance on when the sale of an initial coin offering (ICO) or other tokens would be considered the same as the sale of a security.



One of the most important regulatory hurdles that a new crypto venture must pass is the Howey Test. The U.S. Supreme Court created this in 1946 in its ruling on Securities and Exchange Commission v. W. J. Howey Co., which determines whether a transaction is considered a security.


  SAFT Regulations  

Because cryptocurrency developers are unlikely to be well-versed in securities law and may not have access to financial and legal counsel, it can be easy for them to run afoul of regulations. The development of SAFT creates a simple, inexpensive framework that new ventures can use to raise funds while remaining legally compliant.



When a company sells an investor a SAFT, it is accepting funds from that investor but does not sell, offer, or exchange a coin or token. Instead, the investor receives documentation indicating that the investor will be given access if a cryptocurrency or other product is created.


   Simple Agreement for Future Tokens (SAFT) vs. Simple Agreement for Future Equity (SAFE)  

A SAFT is different from a Simple Agreement for Future Equity (SAFE), which allows investors who put cash into a startup to convert that stake into equity at a later date. Developers use funds from the sale of SAFT to develop the network and technology required to create a functional token and then provide these tokens to investors with the expectation that there will be a market to sell these tokens to.



Because a SAFT is a non-debt financial instrument, investors who purchase a SAFT face the possibility that they will lose their money and have no recourse if the venture fails. The document only allows investors to take a financial stake in the venture, meaning that investors are exposed to the same enterprise risk as if they had purchased a SAFE.
What Is Simple Interest?  

Simple interest is an interest charge that borrowers pay lenders for a loan. It is calculated using the principal only and does not include compounding interest. Simple interest relates not just to certain loans. It's also the type of interest that banks pay customers on their savings accounts.



The formula to determine simple interest is an easy one. Just multiply the loan's principal amount by the annual interest rate by the term of the loan in years.



This type of interest usually applies to automobile loans or short-term loans, although some mortgages use this calculation method.





Key Takeaways

Simple interest is calculated by multiplying loan principal by the interest rate and then by the term of a loan.Simple interest can provide borrowers with a basic idea of a borrowing cost.Auto loans and short-term personal loans are usually simple interest loans.Simple interest involves no calculation of compound interest.A benefit of simple interest over compound interest can be a lower borrowing cost.












Investopedia / Nez Riaz


   Understanding Simple Interest  

Interest is the cost of borrowing money. Typically expressed as a percentage, it amounts to a fee or charge that the borrower pays the lender for the financed sum.



Simple interest is an easy way to look at the charge you'll pay for borrowing. The interest rate is calculated against the principal amount and that amount never changes, as long as you make payments on time. Neither compounding interest nor calculation of the interest rate against a growing total balance is involved.



That means you'll always pay less interest with a simple interest loan than a compound interest loan if the loan term is greater than one year.



Many debt transactions involve a more complex calculation of interest than simple interest.


  Benefits of a Simple Interest Loan  

Interest doesn't compound or get added to the principal amount for a larger borrowing cost result. You never pay interest on interest.Borrowers can save money.Debts can be easier to pay off.The simple interest calculation is simple and straightforward.






Simple interest is better for borrowers because it doesn't account for compound interest. On the other hand, compound interest is a key to building wealth for investors.


   Simple Interest Formula  

The formula for simple interest is straightforward:


















Simple Interest


=


P


×


r


×


n
















where:
















P


=


Principal
















r


=


Interest rate
















n


=


Term of loan, in years







\begin{aligned}&\text{Simple Interest} = P \times r \times n \\&\textbf{where:} \\&P = \text{Principal} \\&r = \text{Interest rate} \\&n = \text{Term of loan, in years} \\\end{aligned}


​Simple Interest=P×r×nwhere:P=Principalr=Interest raten=Term of loan, in years​


   Example of Simple Interest  

As a reminder, simple interest paid or received over a certain period is a fixed percentage of the principal amount that was borrowed or lent.



For example, let's say that a student obtains a simple interest loan to pay for one year of college tuition. The loan amount is $18,000. The annual interest rate on the loan is 6%. The term of the loan is three years.



Using the simple interest formula above, the amount of simple interest on the student's loan is:












$


18


,


000


×


0.06


×


3


=


$


3


,


240







\begin{aligned}\$18,000 \times 0.06 \times 3 = \$3,240\end{aligned}


$18,000×0.06×3=$3,240​



Therefore, the total amount of principal and interest paid to the lender is:












$


18


,


000


+


$


3


,


240


=


$


21


,


240







\begin{aligned}\$18,000 + \$3,240 = \$21,240\end{aligned}


$18,000+$3,240=$21,240​





Simple Interest vs. Daily Simple Interest

Simple Interest is similar to Daily Simple Interest except that with the latter, interest accrues daily and is added to your account balance. Also, while loan balances on simple interest debt are reduced on the payment due date, daily simple interest loan balances are reduced on the day payments are received.


   What Types of Loans Use Simple Interest?  

Simple interest usually applies to automobile loans or short-term personal loans. In the U.S., most mortgages on an amortization schedule also involve simple interest, although they can certainly feel like compound interest loans.



The compounding feel comes from varying principal payments—that is, the percentage of your mortgage payment that's actually going towards the loan itself, not the interest.



The interest doesn’t compound. Rather, the principal payments do. A $1,000 principal payment saves interest on that $1,000 and results in higher principal payments the next year, and higher the following year, and so on.



If you don’t let the principal payments vary, as in an interest-only loan (zero principal payment), or by equalizing the principal payments, the loan interest itself doesn’t compound. If you make partial payments to a simple interest loan, the payment will be applied to interest first, and any remainder will be used to reduce the principal.



Lowering the interest rate, shortening the loan term, or prepaying principal also has a compounding effect.



For example, take bi-weekly mortgage payment plans. Biweekly plans generally help consumers pay off their mortgages early because the borrowers make two extra payments a year, saving interest over the life of the loan by paying off the principal faster.






For a short-term personal loan, a personal loan calculator can be a great way to determine in advance an interest rate that's within your means. For longer-term loans, this calculator may also be of help.


   Simple Interest vs. Compound Interest  

Interest can be either simple or compounded. Simple interest is based on the original principal amount of a loan or deposit.
Compound interest, on the other hand, is based on the principal amount and the interest that accumulates on it in every period. The more frequently interest is compounded—quarterly, monthly, or even daily—the greater the total amount of payments in the long run.
Since simple interest is calculated only on the principal, it is easier to determine than compound interest.
Compound interest is often a factor in business transactions, investments, and financial products intended to extend for multiple periods or years. Typically, simple interest is used for loans of a single period or less than a year.
The formula to determine compound interest involves the same variables as simple interest and is:















P


×


(


1


+


r



)


n



−


P







\begin{aligned}&P \times ( 1 + r )^n - P \\\end{aligned}


​P×(1+r)n−P​
Borrowing Cost With Simple Interest
Let's say that you are borrowing $10,000 from Bank A to finance an automobile purchase. It's a simple interest loan with a rate of 5% and a term of 5 years.
The amount of interest that you'll owe is:









$


10


,


000


×


.


05


×


5


=


$


2


,


500







\begin{aligned}\$10,000 \times .05 \times 5 = \$2,500 \\\end{aligned}


$10,000×.05×5=$2,500​
The total amount that you'll pay the lender will be:









$


10


,


000


+


$


2


,


500


=


$


12


,


500







\begin{aligned}\$10,000 + \$2,500 = \$12,500 \\\end{aligned}


$10,000+$2,500=$12,500​
Borrowing Cost With Compound Interest
This time, you take out a compound interest loan from Bank A. The essential terms are the same: a $10,000 loan, 5% interest rate, and term of five years.
In this case, the amount of interest that you'll owe is:









$


10


,


000


×


(


1


+


.


05



)


5



−


$


10


,


000


=


$


2


,


762.82







\begin{aligned}\$10,000 \times ( 1 + .05 ) ^5 - \$10,000 = \$2,762.82 \\\end{aligned}


$10,000×(1+.05)5−$10,000=$2,762.82​
The total amount that you'll pay the lender will be $12,762.82.






If you'd like to calculate a total value for principal and interest that will accrue over a particular period of time, use this slightly more involved simple interest formula: A = P(1 + rt). A = total accrued, P = the principal amount of money (e.g., to be invested), r = interest rate per period, t = number of periods.




Why Is Simple Interest "Simple"?
"Simple" interest refers to the straightforward crediting of cash flows associated with some investment or deposit. For instance, 1% annual simple interest would credit $1 for every $100 invested, year after year. Simple interest does not, however, take into account the power of compounding, or interest-on-interest, where after the first year the 1% would actually be earned on the $101 balance—adding up to $1.01. The next year, the 1% would be earned on $102.01, amounting to $1.02. And so one.




Which Will Pay Out More Over Time, Simple or Compound Interest?
Compound interest will always pay more after the first payment period. Suppose you borrow $10,000 at a 10% annual interest rate with the principal and interest due as a lump sum in three years. Using a simple interest calculation, 10% of the principal balance gets added to your repayment amount during each of the three years. That comes out to $1,000 per year, which totals $3,000 in interest over the life of the loan.At repayment, then, the amount due is $13,000. Now suppose you take out the same loan, with the same terms, but the interest is compounded annually. When the loan is due, instead of owing $13,000, you end up owing $13,310. While you may not consider $310 a huge difference, this example is only a three-year loan; compound interest piles up and becomes oppressive with longer loan terms.




What Are Some Financial Instruments That Use Simple Interest?
Most coupon-paying bonds utilize simple interest. So do most personal loans, including student loans and auto loans, and home mortgages.




What Are Some Financial Instruments That Use Compound Interest?
Most bank deposit accounts, credit cards, and some lines of credit will tend to use compound interest.


   The Bottom Line  

Simple interest is the interest charge on borrowing that's calculated using an original principal amount only and an interest rate that never changes. It does not involve compounding, where borrowers end up paying interest on principal and interest that grows over multiple payment periods.



Simple interest can be advantageous for borrowers because of its relatively lower cost of money. However, bear in mind that, because of its simple calculation, it gives only a basic idea of cost that may not account for other charges/fees that a loan may include.
What Is a Simple Moving Average (SMA)?  

A simple moving average (SMA) calculates the average of a selected range of prices, usually closing prices, by the number of periods in that range.





Key Takeaways

Simple moving averages calculate the average of a range of prices by the number of periods within that range.A simple moving average is a technical indicator that can aid in determining if an asset price will continue or if it will reverse a bull or bear trend.A simple moving average can be enhanced as an exponential moving average (EMA) that is more heavily weighted on recent price action.






   Understanding Simple Moving Average (SMA)  

A simple moving average (SMA) is an arithmetic moving average calculated by adding recent prices and then dividing that figure by the number of time periods in the calculation average. For example, one could add the closing price of a security for a number of time periods and then divide this total by that same number of periods. Short-term averages respond quickly to changes in the price of the underlying security, while long-term averages are slower to react. There are other types of moving averages, including the exponential moving average (EMA) and the weighted moving average (WMA).












Investopedia / Sabrina Jiang



The formula for SMA is:


















SMA


=





A


1



+



A


2



+


.


.


.


+



A


n




n

















where:

















A


n



=


the price of an asset at period 


n
















n


=


the number of total periods







\begin{aligned} &\text{SMA}=\dfrac{A_1 + A_2 + ... + A_n}{n} \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &A_n=\text{the price of an asset at period } n\\ &n=\text{the number of total periods}\\ \end{aligned}


​SMA=nA1​+A2​+...+An​​where:An​=the price of an asset at period nn=the number of total periods​



For example, this is how you would calculate the simple moving average of a security with the following closing prices over a 15-day period.



Week One (5 days): 20, 22, 24, 25, 23



Week Two (5 days): 26, 28, 26, 29, 27



Week Three (5 days): 28, 30, 27, 29, 28



A 10-day moving average would average out the closing prices for the first 10 days as the first data point. The next data point would drop the earliest price, add the price on day 11, then take the average, and so on. Likewise, a 50-day moving average would accumulate enough data to average 50 consecutive days of data on a rolling basis.



A simple moving average is customizable because it can be calculated for different numbers of time periods. This is done by adding the closing price of the security for a number of time periods and then dividing this total by the number of time periods, which gives the average price of the security over the time period.



A simple moving average smooths out volatility and makes it easier to view the price trend of a security. If the simple moving average points up, this means that the security's price is increasing. If it is pointing down, it means that the security's price is decreasing. The longer the time frame for the moving average, the smoother the simple moving average. A shorter-term moving average is more volatile, but its reading is closer to the source data.






One of the most popular simple moving averages is the 200-day SMA. However, there is a danger to following the crowd. As The Wall Street Journal explains, since thousands of traders base their strategies around the 200-day SMA, there is a chance that these predictions could become self-fulfilling and limit price growth.


   Special Considerations  
  Analytical Significance  

Moving averages are an important analytical tool used to identify current price trends and the potential for a change in an established trend. The simplest use of an SMA in technical analysis is using it to quickly determine if an asset is in an uptrend or downtrend.



Another popular, albeit slightly more complex, analytical use is to compare a pair of simple moving averages with each covering different time frames. If a shorter-term simple moving average is above a longer-term average, an uptrend is expected. On the other hand, if the long-term average is above a shorter-term average then a downtrend might be the expected outcome.


  Popular Trading Patterns  

Two popular trading patterns that use simple moving averages include the death cross and a golden cross. A death cross occurs when the 50-day SMA crosses below the 200-day SMA. This is considered a bearish signal, indicating that further losses are in store. The golden cross occurs when a short-term SMA breaks above a long-term SMA. Reinforced by high trading volumes, this can signal further gains are in store.


   Simple Moving Average vs. Exponential Moving Average  

The major difference between an exponential moving average (EMA) and a simple moving average is the sensitivity each one shows to changes in the data used in its calculation. More specifically, the EMA gives a higher weighting to recent prices, while the SMA assigns an equal weighting to all values.



The two averages are similar because they are interpreted in the same manner and are both commonly used by technical traders to smooth out price fluctuations. Since EMAs place a higher weighting on recent data than on older data, they are more reactive to the latest price changes than SMAs are, which makes the results from EMAs more timely and explains why the EMA is the preferred average among many traders.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Limitations of Simple Moving Average  

It is unclear whether or not more emphasis should be placed on the most recent days in the time period or on more distant data. Many traders believe that new data will better reflect the current trend the security is moving with. At the same time, other traders feel that privileging certain dates over others will bias the trend. Therefore, the SMA may rely too heavily on outdated data since it treats the 10th or 200th day's impact the same as the first or second day's.



Similarly, the SMA relies wholly on historical data. Many people (including economists) believe that markets are efficient—that is, that current market prices already reflect all available information. If markets are indeed efficient, using historical data should tell us nothing about the future direction of asset prices.




How Are Simple Moving Averages Used in Technical Analysis?
Traders use simple moving averages (SMAs) to chart the long-term trajectory of a stock or other security, while ignoring the noise of day-to-day price movements. This allows traders to compare medium- and long-term trends over a larger time horizon. For example, if the 200-day SMA of a security falls below its 50-day SMA, this is usually interpreted as a bearish death cross pattern and a signal of further declines. The opposite pattern, the golden cross, indicates potential for a market rally.




How Do You Calculate a Simple Moving Average?
To calculate a simple moving average, the number of prices within a time period is divided by the number of total periods. For instance, consider shares of Tesla closed at $10, $11, $12, $11, $14 over a five day period. The simple moving average of Tesla’s shares would equal $10 + $11 + $12 + $11 + $14 divided by 5, equaling $11.6.




What Is the Difference Between a Simple Moving Average and an Exponential Moving Average?
While a simple moving average gives equal weight to each of the values within a time period, an exponential moving average places greater weight on recent prices. Exponential moving averages are typically seen as a more timely indicator of a price trend, and because of this, many traders prefer using this over a simple moving average. Common short-term exponential moving averages include the 12-day and 26-day. The 50-day and 200-day exponential moving averages are used to indicate long-term trends.
What Is a Simple Random Sample?  

A simple random sample is a subset of a statistical population in which each member of the subset has an equal probability of being chosen. A simple random sample is meant to be an unbiased representation of a group.





Key Takeaways

A simple random sample takes a small, random portion of the entire population to represent the entire data set, where each member has an equal probability of being chosen.Researchers can create a simple random sample using methods like lotteries or random draws.A sampling error can occur with a simple random sample if the sample does not end up accurately reflecting the population it is supposed to represent.Simple random samples are determined by assigning sequential values to each item within a population, then randomly selecting those values.Simple random sampling provides a different sampling approach compared to systematic sampling, stratified sampling, or cluster sampling. 












Investopedia / Madelyn Goodnight


   Understanding a Simple Random Sample  

Researchers can create a simple random sample using a couple of methods. With a lottery method, each member of the population is assigned a number, after which numbers are selected at random.



An example of a simple random sample would be the names of 25 employees being chosen out of a hat from a company of 250 employees. In this case, the population is all 250 employees, and the sample is random because each employee has an equal chance of being chosen. Random sampling is used in science to conduct randomized control tests or for blinded experiments.



The example in which the names of 25 employees out of 250 are chosen out of a hat is an example of the lottery method at work. Each of the 250 employees would be assigned a number between 1 and 250, after which 25 of those numbers would be chosen at random.



Because individuals who make up the subset of the larger group are chosen at random, each individual in the large population set has the same probability of being selected. This creates, in most cases, a balanced subset that carries the greatest potential for representing the larger group as a whole.



For larger populations, a manual lottery method can be quite onerous. Selecting a random sample from a large population usually requires a computer-generated process, by which the same methodology as the lottery method is used, only the number assignments and subsequent selections are performed by computers, not humans.


  Room for Error  

With a simple random sample, there has to be room for error represented by a plus and minus variance (sampling error). For example, if in a high school of 1,000 students a survey were to be taken to determine how many students are left-handed, random sampling can determine that eight out of the 100 sampled are left-handed. The conclusion would be that 8% of the student population of the high school are left-handed, when in fact the global average would be closer to 10%.



The same is true regardless of the subject matter. A survey on the percentage of the student population that has green eyes or is physical disability would result in a mathematical probability based on a simple random survey, but always with a plus or minus variance. The only way to have a 100% accuracy rate would be to survey all 1,000 students which, while possible, would be impractical.






Although simple random sampling is intended to be an unbiased approach to surveying, sample selection bias can occur. When a sample set of the larger population is not inclusive enough, representation of the full population is skewed and requires additional sampling techniques.


   How to Conduct a Simple Random Sample  

The simple random sampling process entails size steps. Each step much be performed in sequential order.


  Step 1: Define the Population  

The origin of statistical analysis is to determine the population base. This is the group in which you wish to learn more about, confirm a hypothesis, or determine a statistical outcome. This step is to simply identify what that population base is and to ensure that group will adequately cover the outcome you are trying to solve for.



Example: I wish to learn how the stocks of the largest companies in the United States have performed over the past 20 years. My population is the largest companies in the United States as determined by the S&P 500.


  Step 2: Choose Sample Size  

Before picking the units within a population, we need to determine how many units to select This sample size may be constrained based on the amount of time, capital rationing, or other resources available to analyze the sample. However, be mindful to pick a sample size large enough to be truly representative of the population. In the example above, there are constrains in analyzing the performance for every stock in the S&P 500, so we only want to analyze a sub-set of this population.



Example: My sample size will be 20 companies from the S&P 500. 


  Step 3: Determine Population Units  

In our example, the items within the population are easy to determine as they've already been identified for us (i.e. the companies listed within the S&P 500). However, imagine analyzing the students currently enrolled at a university or food products being sold at a grocery store. This steps entails crafting the entire list of all items within your population.



Example: Using exchange information, I copy the companies comprising the S&P 500 into an Excel spreadsheet.


  Step 4: Assign Numerical Values  

The simple random sample process call for every unit within the population receiving an unrelated numerical value. This is often assigned based on how the data may be filtered. For example, I could assign the numbers 1 to 500 to the companies based on market cap, alphabetical, or company formation date. How the values are assigned doesn't entirely matter; all that matters is each value is sequential and each value has an equal chance of being selected.



Example: I assign the numbers 1 through 500 to the companies in the S&P 500 based on alphabetical order of the current CEO, with the first company receiving the value '1' and the last company receiving the value '500'. 


  Step 5: Select Random Values  

In step 2, we selected the number of items we wanted to analyze within our population. For the running example, we choose to analyze 20 items. In the fifth step, we randomly select 20 numbers of the values assigned to our variables. In the running example, this is the numbers 1 through 500. There are multiple ways to randomly select these 20 numbers discussed later in this article.



Example: Using the random number table, I select the numbers 2, 7, 17, 67, 68, 75, 77, 87, 92, 101, 145, 201, 222, 232, 311, 333, 376, 401, 478, and 489.


  Step 6: Identify Sample  

The last step of a simple random sample is the bridge step 4 and step 5. Each of the random variables selected in the prior step corresponds to a item within our population. The sample is selected by identifying which random values were chosen and which population items those values match.



Example: My sample consists of the 2nd item in the list of companies alphabetically listed by CEO's last name. My sample also consists of company number 7, 17, 67, etc.


   Random Sampling Techniques  

There is no single method for determining the random values to be selected (i.e. Step 5 above). The analyst can not simply choose numbers at random as there may not be randomness with numbers. For example, the analyst's wedding anniversary may be the 24th, so they may consciously (or subconsciously) pick the random value 24. Instead, the analyst may choose one of the following methods:



Random lottery. Whether by ping-pong ball or slips of paper, each population number receives an equivalent item that is stored in a box or other indistinguishable container. Then, random numbers are selected by pulling or selecting items without view from the container. 
Physical Methods. Simple, early methods of random selection may use dice, flipping coins, or spinning wheels. Each outcome is assigned a value or outcome relating to the population.
Random number table. Many statistics and research books contain sample tables with randomized numbers.
Online random number generator. Many online tools exist where the analyst inputs the population size and sample size to be selected.
Random numbers from Excel. Numbers can be selected in Excel using the =RANDBETWEEN formula. A cell containing =RANDBETWEEN(1,5) will selected a single random number between 1 and 5.






When pulling together a sample, consider getting assistance from a colleague or independent person. They may be able to identify biases or discrepancies you may not be aware of.


   Simple Random vs. Other Sampling Methods  
  Simple Random vs. Stratified Random Sample  

A simple random sample is used to represent the entire data population. A stratified random sample divides the population into smaller groups, or strata, based on shared characteristics.



Unlike simple random samples, stratified random samples are used with populations that can be easily broken into different subgroups or subsets. These groups are based on certain criteria, then elements from each are randomly chosen in proportion to the group's size versus the population. In our example above, S&P 500 companies could have broken into headquarter geographical region or industry.



This method of sampling means there will be selections from each different group—the size of which is based on its proportion to the entire population. Researchers must ensure the strata do not overlap. Each point in the population must only belong to one stratum so each point is mutually exclusive. Overlapping strata would increase the likelihood that some data are included, thus skewing the sample.


  Simple Random vs. Systematic Sampling  

Systematic sampling entails selecting a single random variable, and that variable determines the internal in which the population items are selected. For example, if the number 37 was chosen, the 37th company on the list sorted by CEO last name would be selected by the sample. Then, the 74th (i.e. the next 37th) and the 111st (i.e. the next 37th after that) would be added as well.



Simple random sampling does not have a starting point; therefore, there is the risk that the population items selected at random may cluster. In our example, there may be an abundance of CEOs with the last name that start with the letter 'F'. Systematic sampling strives to even further reduce bias to ensure these clusters do not happen.


  Simple Random vs. Cluster Sampling  

Cluster sampling can occur as a one-stage cluster or two-stage cluster. In a one-stage cluster, items within a population are put into comparable groupings; using our example, companies are grouped by year formed. Then, sampling occurs within these clusters.



Two-stage cluster sampling occurs when clusters are formed through random selection. The population is not clustered with other similar items. Then, sample items are randomly selected within each cluster.



Simple random sampling does not cluster any population sets. Though sample random sampling may be a simpler, clustering (especially two-stage clustering) may enhance the randomness of sample items. In addition, cluster sampling may provide a deeper analysis on a specific snapshot of a population which may or may not enhance the analysis.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Simple Random Samples  

While simple random samples are easy to use, they do come with key disadvantages that can render the data useless.


  Advantages of Simple Random Sample  

Ease of use represents the biggest advantage of simple random sampling. Unlike more complicated sampling methods, such as stratified random sampling and probability sampling, no need exists to divide the population into sub-populations or take any other additional steps before selecting members of the population at random.



A simple random sample is meant to be an unbiased representation of a group. It is considered a fair way to select a sample from a larger population since every member of the population has an equal chance of getting selected. Therefore, simple random sampling is known for its randomness and less chance of sampling bias.


  Disadvantages of Simple Random Sample  

A sampling error can occur with a simple random sample if the sample does not end up accurately reflecting the population it is supposed to represent. For example, in our simple random sample of 25 employees, it would be possible to draw 25 men even if the population consisted of 125 women, 125 men, and 125 nonbinary people.



For this reason, simple random sampling is more commonly used when the researcher knows little about the population. If the researcher knew more, it would be better to use a different sampling technique, such as stratified random sampling, which helps to account for the differences within the population, such as age, race, or gender.



Other disadvantages include the fact that for sampling from large populations, the process can be time-consuming and costly compared to other methods. Researchers may find a certain project not worth the endeavor of its cost-benefit analysis does not generate positive results. As every unit has to be assigned an identifying or sequential number prior to the selection process, this task may be difficult based on the method of data collection or size of the data set.




Simple Random Sampling

Advantages

Each item within a population has an equal chance of being selected
There is less of a chance of sampling bias as every item is randomly selected
This sampling method is easy and convenient for data sets already listed or digitally stored



Disadvantages

Incomplete population demographics may exclude certain groups from being sampled
Random selection means the sample may not be truly representative of the population
Depending on the data set size and format, random sampling may be a time-intensive process







Why Is a Simple Random Sample Simple?
No easier method exists to extract a research sample from a larger population than simple random sampling. Selecting enough subjects completely at random from the larger population also yields a sample that can be representative of the group being studied.




What Are Some Drawbacks of a Simple Random Sample?
Among the disadvantages of this technique are difficulty gaining access to respondents that can be drawn from the larger population, greater time, greater costs, and the fact that bias can still occur under certain circumstances.




What Is a Stratified Random Sample?
A stratified random sample, in contrast to a simple draw, first divides the population into smaller groups, or strata, based on shared characteristics. Therefore, a stratified sampling strategy will ensure that members from each subgroup are included in the data analysis. Stratified sampling is used to highlight differences between groups in a population, as opposed to simple random sampling, which treats all members of a population as equal, with an equal likelihood of being sampled.




How Are Random Samples Used?
Using simple random sampling allows researchers to make generalizations about a specific population and leave out any bias. Using statistical techniques, inferences and predictions can be made about the population without having to survey or collect data from every individual in that population.


   The Bottom Line  

When analyzing a population, simple random sampling is a technique that results in every item within the population to have the same probability of being selected for the sample size. This more basic form of sampling can be expanded upon to derive more complicated sampling methods. However, the process of making a list of all items in a population, assigning each a sequential number, choosing the sample size, and randomly selecting items is a more basic form of selecting units for analysis.
What Is a Simplified Employee Pension (SEP)?  

A simplified employee pension (SEP) is an individual retirement account (IRA) that an employer or a self-employed person can establish. The employer is allowed a tax deduction for contributions made to a SEP IRA and makes contributions to each eligible employee’s plan on a discretionary basis.



Additionally, under the Setting Every Community Up for Retirement Enhancement (SECURE) Act, enacted on Dec. 20, 2019, small employers get a tax credit to offset the costs of starting a 401(k) plan or SIMPLE IRA with auto-enrollment. That’s on top of the start-up credit they already receive.



SEP IRAs often have higher annual contribution limits than standard IRAs. In a sense, they're a cross between a traditional IRA and a 401(k)—like the latter, they can receive employer contributions—those employer contributions are vested immediately.





Key Takeaways

A simplified employee pension (SEP) is an individual retirement account (IRA) that an employer or self-employed individual can establish.Small businesses and self-employed individuals can use SEP IRAs to meet retirement savings needs.SEP IRA contribution limits are annual and often higher than standard IRAs and 401(k)s.












Investopedia / Xiaojie Liu


   How a Simplified Employee Pension (SEP) Works  

A SEP IRA is an attractive option for many business owners because it does not come with many of the start-up and operating costs of most conventional employer-sponsored retirement plans. Many employers also set up a SEP IRA to contribute to their own retirement at higher levels than a traditional IRA allows.



Small organizations favor SEP IRAs because of eligibility requirements for contributors, including a minimum age of 21, at least three years of employment, and a $650 compensation minimum for 2022 ($750 for 2023). In addition, a SEP IRA allows employers to skip contributions during years when business is down.



SEP IRAs are treated like traditional IRAs for tax purposes and allow the same investment options. The same transfer and rollover rules that apply to traditional IRAs also apply to SEP IRAs. When an employer makes contributions to SEP IRA accounts, it receives a tax deduction for the amount contributed. Additionally, the business is not locked into an annual contribution requirement—decisions about whether to contribute and how much can change each year.



The employer is not responsible for making investment decisions. Instead, the IRA trustee determines eligible investments, and the individual employee account owners make specific investment decisions. The trustee also deposits contributions, sends annual statements, and files all required documents with the IRS.


  Immediate Vesting  

Contributions to SEP IRAs are immediately 100% vested, and the IRA owner directs the investments. An eligible employee (including the business owner) who participates in their employer’s SEP plan must establish a traditional individual retirement plan (IRA) to which the employer will deposit SEP contributions.



Some financial institutions require the traditional IRA to be labeled as a SEP IRA before they will allow the account to receive SEP contributions. Others might allow SEP contributions to be deposited to a traditional IRA regardless of whether the IRA is labeled as a SEP IRA.






Contributions to a SEP IRA are immediately 100% vested, and account owners must choose their investments themselves from a list provided by the account trustee.


   SEP IRA Contribution Limits  

Contributions made by employers cannot exceed the lesser of 25% of an employee’s compensation, or $66,000 in 2023 (up from $61,000 in 2022). As with a traditional IRA, withdrawals from SEP IRAs in retirement are taxed as ordinary income.



When a business is a sole proprietorship, the employee-owner pays themselves wages and may also make an SEP contribution, which is limited to 25% of wages (or profits) minus the SEP contribution. For a particular contribution rate (CR), the reduced rate is CR ÷ (1 + CR) for a 25% contribution rate. This yields a 20% reduced rate, as in the above example.



Because the funding vehicle for a SEP plan is a traditional IRA, SEP contributions, once deposited, become traditional IRA assets and are subject to many of the traditional IRA rules, including the following:



Distribution rules
Investment rules
Contribution and deduction rules for traditional IRA contributions as they apply to an employee’s regular IRA contributions, not the SEP employer contributions
Documentation requirements for establishing an IRA



In addition to the documents required for establishing an SEP plan (discussed later), each SEP IRA must meet the documentation requirements for a traditional IRA.


   SEP IRA Rules  

SEP IRAs were primarily designed to encourage retirement benefits among businesses that would otherwise not set up employer-sponsored plans. Not all businesses can establish them, though. Only sole proprietors, partnerships, and corporations are eligible.


  Income Limitations  

As for participants, too high an income can be a limitation—the 2023 eligible compensation limit is $330,000 in 2023. Unlike qualified retirement plans, the SEP does not allow participants, including the business owner, to borrow up to the lesser of 50% or $50,000 of their vested balance, however.


  Employee Exclusion  

Specific employees may be excluded by their employer from participating in a SEP IRA, even if they would otherwise be eligible based on the plan’s rules. For example, workers covered in a union collective bargaining agreement for retirement benefits can be excluded. Employees who are nonresidents can also be excluded as long as they do not receive U.S. wages or other service compensation from the employer.


  Withdrawals and Contributions  

SEP contributions and earnings are held in SEP IRAs and can be withdrawn at any time, subject to the general limitations imposed on traditional IRAs. A withdrawal is taxable in the year received. If a participant makes a withdrawal before age 59½, generally, a 10% additional tax applies.


  Rollover and Distributions  

SEP contributions and earnings may be rolled over to other, similar, IRAs and retirement plans tax-free. Additionally, SEP contributions and earnings must eventually be distributed following the IRA-required minimum distributions rules.


   SEP IRA vs. Individual 401(k)  

A SEP IRA and an individual 401(k), also known as a solo 401(k), are both retirement accounts that allow employer contributions. However, they have two main differences.



The first is that although both accounts have the same maximum contribution limit, you can contribute the maximum to an individual 401(k) at a lower income level than a SEP IRA. In 2023, individuals making $150,000 or more can contribute up to the $66,000 maximum to a 401(k), whereas SEP IRA owners need to make $264,000 or more to contribute the same amount. Second, you can take a loan against the 401(k), which is not allowed with a SEP IRA.






If you are a small business owner with employees and a SEP IRA plan, you must contribute as much to their plans as yours.



A SEP IRA, however, is somewhat easier to set up and maintain. An individual 401(k) requires its owner to be more involved in its administrative responsibilities, and it can also generate higher fees than a SEP IRA.


   SEP IRA vs. Traditional IRA vs. Roth IRA  

There are important differences between these three retirement accounts. With a traditional IRA, you contribute tax-free money, reducing your tax bill in the year you make the contribution. However, when you withdraw funds in retirement, they are taxed as ordinary income, and you are required to make distributions once you reach the age of 73 (up from 72 and 70½ in previous years). This makes it best for people who expect to be in a lower tax bracket when they retire.


  Roth IRA  

A Roth IRA reverses the process. You have already paid income tax on the money you contribute, so withdrawals in retirement are tax-free. This makes a Roth IRA better for people who expect to be in a higher tax bracket in retirement. In addition, there are no required minimum distributions from a Roth IRA, so if you don’t need the money, you can just let it sit there and pass the account on to your heirs.


  SEP IRA  

A SEP IRA is available to any employer, including self-employed persons. It allows employer contributions, which traditional and Roth IRAs do not, and all contributions to it are tax-free, meaning that distributions in retirement will be taxed as ordinary income. The maximum contribution limit for a SEP IRA is considerably higher than that for either a traditional or Roth IRA. Employers can get a tax deduction for their contribution, which means when the self-employed person is both employer and employee, they can get that tax deduction. SEP IRAs were invented as a way to help small businesses provide employer-sponsored retirement plans to their employees and owners.




How Does a SEP IRA Work?
A SEP IRA allows small business owners to set up contributions to their own accounts and those of their employees.




What Is the Benefit of a SEP IRA?
SEP IRAs allow the holders to reduce taxable income and take advantage of compounding interest on tax-deferred contributions. SEP IRAs also have higher contribution limits than other IRAs.




What Is the Difference Between a SEP IRA and a Traditional IRA?
The most significant difference is the contribution limit, where a traditional IRA allows for a $6,500 total annual amount (with a $7,500 catchup contribution for those over 50). You can contribute up to $66,000 in 2023.


   The Bottom Line  

A SEP IRA is a retirement plan option for small business owners and qualified employees. It has higher contribution and income limits. To set one up, small business owners must choose a plan provider and make contributions. If they have employees, they are required to contribute to their plans equally.
What Is a Sinking Fund?  

A sinking fund is a fund containing money set aside or saved to pay off a debt or bond. A company that issues debt will need to pay that debt off in the future, and the sinking fund helps to soften the hardship of a large outlay of revenue. A sinking fund is established so the company can contribute to the fund in the years leading up to the bond's maturity.





Key Takeaways

A sinking fund is an account containing money set aside to pay off a debt or bond. Sinking funds may help pay off the debt at maturity or assist in buying back bonds on the open market.Callable bonds with sinking funds may be called back early removing future interest payments from the investor.Paying off debt early via a sinking fund saves a company interest expense and prevents the company from being put in financial difficulties in the future.












Investopedia / Joules Garcia


   Understanding a Sinking Fund  

A sinking fund helps companies that have floated debt in the form of bonds to gradually save money and avoid a large lump-sum payment at maturity. Some bonds are issued with the attachment of a sinking fund feature.



The prospectus for a bond of this type will identify the dates that the issuer has the option to redeem the bond early using the sinking fund. While the sinking fund helps companies ensure they have enough funds set aside to pay off their debt, in some cases, they may also use the funds to repurchase preferred shares or outstanding bonds.


   Benefits of a Sinking Fund  
  Lower Default Risk  

A sinking fund adds an element of safety to a corporate bond issue for investors. Since there will be funds set aside to pay off the bonds at maturity, there's less likelihood of default on the money owed at maturity.



In other words, the amount owed at maturity is substantially less if a sinking fund is established. As a result, a sinking fund helps investors have some protection in the event of the company's bankruptcy or default. A sinking fund also helps a company allay concerns of default risk, and as a result, attract more investors for their bond issuance.


  Improved Creditworthiness  

Since a sinking fund adds an element of security and lowers default risk, the interest rates on the bonds are usually lower. As a result, the company is usually seen as creditworthy, which can lead to positive credit ratings for its debt. Good credit ratings increase the demand for a company's bonds from investors, which is particularly helpful if a company needs to issue additional debt or bonds in the future.


  Improved Cash Flow and Profitability  

Lower debt-servicing costs due to lower interest rates can improve cash flow and profitability over the years. If the company is performing well, investors are more likely to invest in their bonds leading to increased demand and the likelihood the company could raise additional capital if needed.


   Callable Bonds  

If the bonds issued are callable, it means the company can retire or pay off a portion of the bonds early using the sinking fund when it makes financial sense. The bonds are embedded with a call option giving the issuer the right to "call" or buy back the bonds.



The prospectus of the bond issue can provide details of the callable feature including the timing in which the bonds can be called, specific price levels, as well as the number of bonds that are callable. Typically, only a portion of the bonds issued are callable, and the callable bonds are chosen at random using their serial numbers.



A callable is typically called at an amount slightly above par value and those called earlier have a higher call value. For example, a bond callable at a price of 102 pays the investor $1,020 for each $1,000 in face value, yet stipulations might state that the price goes down to 101 after a year.



If interest rates decline after the bond's issue, the company can issue new debt at a lower interest rate than the callable bond. The company uses the proceeds from the second issue to pay off the callable bonds by exercising the call feature. As a result, the company has refinanced its debt by paying off the higher-yielding callable bonds with the newly-issued debt at a lower interest rate.



Also, if interest rates decrease, which would result in higher bond prices, the face value of the bonds would be lower than current market prices. In this case, the bonds could be called by the company that redeems the bonds from investors at face value. The investors would lose some of their interest payments, resulting in less long-term income.


   Other Types of Sinking Funds  

Sinking funds may be used to buy back preferred stock. Preferred stock usually pays a more attractive dividend than common equity shares. A company could set aside cash deposits to be used as a sinking fund to retire preferred stock. In some cases, the stock can have a call option attached to it, meaning the company has the right to repurchase the stock at a predetermined price.


   Business Accounting of Sinking Funds  

A sinking fund is typically listed as a noncurrent asset—or long-term asset—on a company's balance sheet and is often included in the listing for long-term investments or other investments.



Companies that are capital-intensive usually issue long-term bonds to fund purchases of new plant and equipment. Oil and gas companies are capital intensive because they require a significant amount of capital or money to fund long-term operations such as oil rigs and drilling equipment.


   Example of a Sinking Fund  

Let's say for example that ExxonMobil Corp. (XOM) issued $20 billion in long-term debt in the form of bonds. Interest payments were to be paid semiannually to bondholders. The company established a sinking fund whereby $4 billion must be paid to the fund each year to be used to pay down debt. By year three, ExxonMobil had paid off $12 billion of the $20 billion in long-term debt.



The company could have opted not to establish a sinking fund, but it would have had to pay out $20 billion from profit, cash, or retained earnings in year five to pay off the debt. The company would have also had to pay five years of interest payments on all of the debt. If economic conditions had deteriorated or the price of oil collapsed, Exxon might have had a cash shortfall due to lower revenues and not being able to meet its debt payment.



Paying the debt early via a sinking fund saves a company interest expense and prevents the company from being put in financial difficulties in the long term if economic or financial conditions worsen.



Also, the sinking fund allows ExxonMobil the option to borrow more money if needed. In our example above, let's say by year three, the company needed to issue another bond for additional capital. Since only $8 billion of the $20 billion in original debt remains, it would likely be able to borrow more capital since the company has had such a solid track record of paying off its debt early.




Is a Sinking Fund a Current Asset?
A sinking fund is not a current asset. It is listed as an asset on a balance sheet but it is not used as a source of working capital so cannot be considered a current asset. A current asset is any asset that can be converted to cash within a year.




What Is the Difference Between a Sinking Fund and an Emergency Fund?
A sinking fund is used for a very specific purpose: to pay down debt or a bond. An emergency fund is a general reserve fund that can be used for a variety of emergencies that may come up. Even though an emergency fund is used for a specific purpose, emergencies, it has a different function than a sinking fund.




What Are the Disadvantages of a Sinking Fund?
The disadvantage of a sinking fund is that it limits the availability of cash on hand for a business. This limited cash reduces the ability to invest, and therefore, earn a return. It can be argued that this is not necessarily a disadvantage as the money in a sinking fund is used to pay off the debt that was raised to facilitate the needs of the business, so a sinking fund is just a measure to prudently manage finances.


   The Bottom Line  

Sinking funds are a method for corporations to pay off debt. Setting aside money to pay off debts is a prudent financial decision for companies to manage their obligations when debt comes due. Companies that don't, may struggle to find the capital to make good on their outstanding debt obligations.
What Is Six Sigma?  

Six Sigma is a methodology for process improvement developed by a scientist at Motorola in the 1980s. Six Sigma practitioners use statistics, financial analysis, and project management to achieve improved business functionality and better quality control by identifying and then correcting mistakes or defects in existing processes. The five phases of the Six Sigma method, known as DMAIC, are defining, measuring, analyzing, improving, and controlling.





Key Takeaways

Six Sigma is a quality-control methodology that businesses use to significantly reduce defects and improve processes.The model was developed by a scientist at Motorola in the 1980s.Companies often use the Six Sigma model to increase efficiency and boost profits.Six Sigma practitioners can earn certifications modeled on the color belts used in martial arts.


   Understanding Six Sigma  

Six Sigma is based on the idea that all business processes can be measured and optimized.



The term Six Sigma originated in manufacturing as a means of quality control. Six Sigma quality is achieved when long-term defect levels are below 3.4 defects per million opportunities (DPMO). 



Six Sigma has since evolved into a more general business concept, focusing on meeting customer requirements, improving customer retention, and improving and sustaining business products and services. Among its best-known proponents was the longtime General Electric CEO Jack Welch.



Six Sigma certification programs confer belt rankings similar to those in the martial arts, ranging from white belt to black belt.


   The Five Steps of Six Sigma  

The Six Sigma method uses a step-by-step approach called DMAIC, an acronym that stands for define, measure, analyze, improve, and control. According to Six Sigma adherents, a business may solve any seemingly unsolvable problem by following these five steps:


  Define  

A team of people, led by a Six Sigma expert, chooses a process to focus on and defines the problem it wishes to solve.


  Measure  

The team measures the initial performance of the process, creating a benchmark, and pinpoints a list of inputs that may be hindering performance.


  Analyze  

Next the team analyzes the process by isolating each input, or potential reason for any failures, and testing it as the possible root of the problem.


  Improve  

The team works from there to implement changes that will improve system performance.


  Control  

The group adds controls to the process to ensure it does not regress and become ineffective once again.


   What Is Lean Six Sigma?  

Lean Six Sigma is a team-focused managerial approach that seeks to improve performance by eliminating waste and defects while boosting the standardization of work. It combines Six Sigma methods and tools and the lean manufacturing/lean enterprise philosophy, striving to reduce the waste of physical resources, time, effort, and talent while assuring quality in production and organizational processes. Any use of resources that does not create value for the end customer is considered a waste and should be eliminated.


   Six Sigma Certification and Belt Rankings  

Individuals can obtain Six Sigma certification to attest to their understanding of the process and their skills in implementing it. These certifications are awarded through a belt system similar to karate training. The belt levels are:



White belt. Individuals with a white belt have received some instruction in the basics of Six Sigma, but have not yet gone through any formal training or certification program. This gives them enough knowledge to become team members.Yellow belt. This level can be attained after several training sessions, and equips participants with the knowledge to lead small projects and assist managers who hold more advanced belts.Green belt. To achieve this level, individuals take a more comprehensive course that prepares them to become project leaders.Black belt. After reaching the green belt level, participants can move on to black belt certification, preparing them for leadership roles in larger and more complex projects.



People with black belts can become masters and champions. Someone with a master black belt is considered an expert and strong leader with excellent problem-solving skills. A champion is a lean Six Sigma leader trained in maximizing profits through the elimination of waste and defects.





Note

These certifications, and the courses required to obtain them, are offered by a variety of companies and educational institutions and can differ from one to another.


   Real-World Examples of Six Sigma  

Six Sigma is used by many companies, local governments, and other institutions. Here are two examples of how Six Sigma improved operational efficiency, saved money, and increased customer satisfaction.


  Microsoft  

Microsoft (MSFT) is one of the largest software producers in the world. It used Six Sigma to help eradicate defects in its systems and data centers and systematically reduce IT infrastructure failures.



The company first established standards for all of its hardware and software to create a baseline measurement for detecting defects. It then used root-cause analysis, including collecting data from past high-priority incidents, server failures, and recommendations from product group members and customers, to pinpoint potential problem areas.



Large amounts of data were collected on a daily and weekly basis from various servers. The incidents were prioritized based on how severely the defects affected the business and the company's underlying services. Data analysis and reporting identified the specific defects, after which remediation steps for each defect were established.



As a result of Six Sigma, Microsoft says it improved the availability of its servers, boosted productivity, and increased customer satisfaction.


  Ventura County, California, Government  

Ventura County, California, credited the use of Lean Six Sigma for a savings of $33 million. The county government began to use the program in 2008 and has trained more than 5,000 employees in the methodology. The county says the savings are due in part to the introduction of more efficient new systems and by eliminating unnecessary, but time-consuming, steps from its prior processes.



For example, the VC Star newspaper reported in 2019 that the county saved "$51,000 with an appointments system that reduced labor costs and rates for maintenance of county vehicles [and] almost $400,000 annually by implementing a new system to track employee leaves of absence."




How Can You Get Six Sigma Certification?
You can receive Six Sigma certification through private companies, associations, and some colleges. Keep in mind, though, that there is no single governing body that standardizes the curriculum. This means that courses can vary based on where you take them.




Can You Get Six Sigma Certification Online?
Yes, many of the universities and organizations that offer Six Sigma certification have both classroom and online offerings.




What Is the Basic Difference Between Six Sigma and Lean Six Sigma?
Lean Six Sigma uses the Six Sigma methodology (define, measure, analyze, improve, control) with the specific goal of eliminating waste in a company's, or other organization's, processes or use or materials—that is, making it "leaner." It derives in part from the principles of lean manufacturing.


   The Bottom Line  

Six Sigma has become a widely used quality-improvement methodology in both the private and public sectors. Anyone who wishes to learn it can take courses that lead to various levels of certification.
What Is Skewness?  

Skewness is a measurement of the distortion of symmetrical distribution or asymmetry in a data set. Skewness is demonstrated on a bell curve when data points are not distributed symmetrically to the left and right sides of the median on a bell curve. If the bell curve is shifted to the left or the right, it is said to be skewed.



Skewness can be quantified as a representation of the extent to which a given distribution varies from a normal distribution. A normal distribution has a zero skew, while a lognormal distribution, for example, would exhibit some right skew.





Key Takeaways

Skewness is the degree of asymmetry observed in a probability distribution.Distributions can exhibit right (positive) skewness or left (negative) skewness to varying degrees. A normal distribution (bell curve) exhibits zero skewness.Investors note right-skewness when judging a return distribution because it better represents the extremes of the data set rather than focusing solely on the average.Skewness informs users of the direction of outliers, though it does not tell users the number that occurs.Skewness is often found in stock market returns as well as the distribution of average individual income.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Understanding Skewness  

There are several different types of distributions and skews. The tail or string of data points away from the median is impacted for both positive and negative skews. Negative skew refers to a longer or fatter tail on the left side of the distribution, while positive skew refers to a longer or fatter tail on the right. These two skews refer to the direction or weight of the distribution.



In addition, a distribution can have a zero skew. Zero skew occurs when a data graph is symmetrical. Regardless of how long or fat the distribution tails are, a zero skew indicates a normal distribution of data. A data set can also have an undefined skewness should the data not provide sufficient information about its distribution.



The mean of positively skewed data will be greater than the median. In a negatively skewed distribution, the exact opposite is the case: the mean of negatively skewed data will be less than the median. If the data graphs symmetrically, the distribution has zero skewness, regardless of how long or fat the tails are.



The three probability distributions depicted below are positively skewed (or right-skewed) to an increasing degree. Negatively-skewed distributions are also known as left-skewed distributions.
















Skewness is used along with kurtosis to better judge the likelihood of events falling in the tails of a probability distribution.






   Measuring Skewness  

There are several ways to measure skewness. Pearson’s first and second coefficients of skewness are two common methods. Pearson’s first coefficient of skewness, or Pearson mode skewness, subtracts the mode from the mean and divides the difference by the standard deviation. Pearson’s second coefficient of skewness, or Pearson median skewness, subtracts the median from the mean, multiplies the difference by three, and divides the product by the standard deviation.


  Formula for Pearson's Skewness  






















S



k


1



=





X


ˉ



−


M


o



s





S



k


2



=




3


(


X


−


M


d


)



s



















where:
















S



k


1



=


Pearson’s first coefficient of skewness and 


S



k


2



















the second
















s


=


The standard deviation for the sample

















X


ˉ



=


Is the mean value
















M


o


=


The modal (mode) value
















M


d


=


Is the median value







\begin{aligned}&\qquad\qquad\qquad\quad\frac{Sk_1=\frac{\bar{X}-Mo}{s}}{Sk_2=\frac{3(X-Md)}{s}}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&Sk_1=\text{Pearson's first coefficient of skewness and } Sk_2\\&\qquad\quad\text{the second}\\&s=\text{The standard deviation for the sample}\\&\bar{X}=\text{Is the mean value}\\&Mo=\text{The modal (mode) value}\\&Md=\text{Is the median value}\end{aligned}


​Sk2​=s3(X−Md)​Sk1​=sXˉ−Mo​​where:Sk1​=Pearson’s first coefficient of skewness and Sk2​the seconds=The standard deviation for the sampleXˉ=Is the mean valueMo=The modal (mode) valueMd=Is the median value​
Pearson’s first coefficient of skewness is useful if the data exhibit a strong mode. If the data have a weak mode or multiple modes, Pearson’s second coefficient may be preferable, as it does not rely on mode as a measure of central tendency.






Skewness tells you where the outliers occur, although it doesn't tell you how many outliers occur.


   Types of Skewness  

As noted above, skewness measures asymmetry in a data set and is usually shown on a bell curve. Normal distributions have zero skewness. This means that the distribution ends up being symmetrical around the mean. Having said that, there are instances where skewness isn't symmetrical. In these cases, it can be either positive or negative. Below, we highlight what each type of skewness means.


  Positive Skewness  

A distribution is positively skewed when its tail is more pronounced on the right side than it is on the left. Since the distribution is positive, the assumption is that its value is positive. As such, most of the values end up being left of the mean. This means that the most extreme values are on the right side. As an investor, you may find that you have some small losses with a positive skew. But you may also end up realizing large gains—albeit fewer.


  Negative Skewness  

Negative skewness, on the other hand, occurs when the tail is more pronounced on the left rather than the right side. Contrary to the positive skew, most of the values are found on the right side of the mean when it comes to negative skewness. As such, the most extreme values are found further to the left. Having a negative skew may indicate that you can expect some small gains here and there. But you can generally expect to see a few large losses here and there as an investor.


   What Does Skewness Tell You?  

Investors note skewness when judging a return distribution because it, like kurtosis, considers the extremes of the data set rather than focusing solely on the average. Short- and medium-term investors in particular need to look at extremes because they are less likely to hold a position long enough to be confident that the average will work itself out.



Investors commonly use standard deviation to predict future returns, but the standard deviation assumes a normal distribution. As few return distributions come close to normal, skewness is a better measure on which to base performance predictions. This is due to skewness risk.



Skewness risk is the increased risk of turning up a data point of high skewness in a skewed distribution. Many financial models that attempt to predict the future performance of an asset assume a normal distribution, in which measures of central tendency are equal. If the data are skewed, this kind of model will always underestimate skewness risk in its predictions. The more skewed the data, the less accurate this financial model will be.















Right-skewed returns distribution.
Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2020 


   Examples of a Skewed Distribution  

The departure from normal returns has been observed with more frequency in the last two decades, beginning with the internet bubble of the late 1990s. In fact, asset returns tend to be increasingly right-skewed. This volatility occurred with notable events, such as the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, the housing bubble collapse and subsequent financial crisis, and during the years of quantitative easing (QE).



The broad stock market is often considered to have a negatively skewed distribution. The notion is that the market more often returns a small positive return more often a large negative loss. However, studies have shown that the equity of an individual firm may tend to be left-skewed.



A common example of skewness is the distribution of household income within the United States, as individuals are less likely to earn very high annual income. For example, consider 2020 household income statistics. The lowest quintile of income ranged from $0 to $27,026, while the highest quintile of income ranged from $85,077 to $141,110. With the highest quintile being more than twice as large as the lowest quintile, higher-income data points are more dispersed and cause a positively-skewed distribution.




What Does Skewness Tell Us?
Skewness tells us the direction of outliers. In a positive skew, the tail of a distribution curve is longer on the right side. This means the outliers of the distribution curve are further out towards the right and closer to the mean on the left. Skewness does not inform on the number of outliers; it only communicates the direction of outliers.




What Causes Skewness?
Skewness is simply a reflection of a data set in which activity is heavily condensed in one range and less condensed in another. Imagine scores being measured at an Olympic long jump contest. Many jumpers will likely land larger distances, while a fewer amount will likely land short distances. This often creates a right-skewed distribution. Therefore, the relationship between the data points and how often they occur causes skewness.




Is Skewness Normal?
Skewness is commonly found when analyzing data sets, as there are situations that occur where skewness is simply a component of the data set being analyzed. For example, consider the average human lifespan. As most people tend to die after reaching an elderly age, fewer individuals relatively tend to pass away when they are younger. In this case, skewness is expected and normal.




What Does High Skewness Mean?
High skewness means a distribution curve has a shorter tail on one end a distribution curve and a long tail on the other. The data set follows a normal distribution curve; however, higher skewed data means the data is not evenly distributed. The data points favor one side of the distribution due to the nature of the underlying data.


   The Bottom Line  

Skewness is a statistical measure that is used to show whether a distribution is distorted or asymmetrical. If the skewness is right-tailed (meaning the right tail is more pronounced than the left), the skew is positive. In this case, the values are more than zero. If the opposite is true and the tail is more pronounced on the left, then the skew is negative, where the values are less than zero.
What Is Skin in the Game?  

Skin in the game is a phrase made popular by renowned investor Warren Buffett referring to a situation in which high-ranking insiders use their own money to buy stock in the company they are running. The saying is particularly common in business, finance, and gambling and is also used in politics.





Key Takeaways

Skin in the game refers to owners, executives, or principals having a significant stake in the shares of the company they manage.Skin in the game is important to investors because it shows executives share a stake in the company's success.The SEC requires companies to report on insider ownership or trading of a company's securities, which is made available to the public.


   Understanding Skin in the Game  

In business and financing, the term skin in the game is used to refer to owners or principals having a significant stake in an investment vehicle, such as shares of a company, in which outside investors are solicited to invest. In this phrase, "skin" is a figure of speech for the person or money involved, and "game" is the metaphor for actions on the field of play under discussion.



It is not unheard of for an executive to receive stock as compensation or to exercise stock options to buy a stock at a discount. What is less common is for an executive to risk their own money in the company that they work in. When an executive puts skin in the game, it is seen as a sign of good faith or a show of confidence in the future of the company, and it is seen as a positive sign by outside investors.



If principals or owners have also invested their own money in the investment vehicle, then prospective and existing investors will translate this move as a vote of confidence. Skin in the game—or insider ownership—also conveys to investors that the company will likely put its best foot forward to generate returns for its investors.



The idea behind executives putting their skin in the game is to ensure that corporations are managed by like-minded individuals who share a stake in the company. Executives can talk all they want, but the best vote of confidence is putting one's own money on the line just like outside investors.


   Limitations of Skin in the Game  

However, some limitations exist when owners and senior management executives are asked to invest their own money in a security. Many banks and other financial institutions bar employees from having any "skin" where client capital is managed. The restriction addresses the issue of front running, which is when an executive enters a trade—with inside or non-public information—just before an event or announcement to gain an economic advantage.



There are also restrictions on commingled funds, which is the pooling of resources or the mixing of both private funds and corporate resources into the company's stock or bonds. There are some instances when the executives must remain objective in their decision-making and are barred from investing in the company's they manage.


   Disclosure Requirements for Skin in the Game  

The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requires that funds annually disclose how much money each portfolio manager has invested in the fund. Using this public information, proponents argue that finding fund managers who put their money where their mouths are can be a reliable way to identify fund managers who could be expected to beat the market over the long run. Proponents of skin in the game argue that capital commitment is the single most important way to align the interests of investors and managers.



The SEC also requires companies to report on insider ownership or trades of a company's securities. The reports are required because trades by executives, directors, and officers can impact the price of the company's stock. There are various types of forms that the executives must file with the SEC. Investors can access and use these insider ownership reports to make a more informed decision as to whether to invest or not invest in the company.


   Real-World Example of Skin in the Game  

If investors want to see a CEO that has skin in the game with their company, there are few better examples than Elon Musk. Elon Musk is the chief executive officer (CEO) of Tesla Inc. Below is a portion of the SEC filing showing the number of Tesla shares owned by its CEO. Musk owned more than 227 million shares of Tesla per his latest schedule 13G filing for Dec. 31, 2021.
What Is Slippage?  

Slippage refers to the difference between the expected price of a trade and the price at which the trade is executed. Slippage can occur at any time but is most prevalent during periods of higher volatility when market orders are used. It can also occur when a large order is executed but there isn't enough volume at the chosen price to maintain the current bid/ask spread.





Key Takeaways

Slippage refers to all situations in which a market participant receives a different trade execution price than intended.Slippage occurs when the bid/ask spread changes between the time a market order is requested and the time an exchange or other market maker executes the order.Slippage occurs in all market venues, including equities, bonds, currencies, and futures.The final execution price vs. the intended execution price can be categorized as positive slippage, no slippage, or negative slippage.Slippage can be limited by not executing trades late in the day, investing in calm and liquid markets, and placing limit orders.


   How Does Slippage Work?  

Slippage does not denote a negative or positive movement because any difference between the intended execution price and actual execution price qualifies as slippage. When an order is executed, the security is purchased or sold at the most favorable price offered by an exchange or other market maker. This can produce results that are more favorable, equal to, or less favorable than the intended execution price. The final execution price vs. the intended execution price can be categorized as positive slippage, no slippage, or negative slippage.



Market prices can change quickly, allowing slippage to occur during the delay between a trade being ordered and when it is completed. The term is used in many market venues but definitions are identical. However, slippage tends to occur in different circumstances for each venue.



While a limit order prevents negative slippage, it carries the inherent risk of the trade not being executed if the price does not return to the limit level. This risk increases in situations where market fluctuations occur more quickly, significantly limiting the amount of time for a trade to be completed at the intended execution price.






Investors can avoid negative slippage by placing limit orders.


   Example of Slippage  

One of the more common ways that slippage occurs is as a result of an abrupt change in the bid/ask spread. A market order may get executed at a less or more favorable price than originally intended when this happens.



With negative slippage, the ask has increased in a long trade or the bid has decreased in a short trade. With positive slippage, the ask has decreased in a long trade or the bid has increased in a short trade. Market participants can protect themselves from slippage by placing limit orders and avoiding market orders.



For example, say Apple's bid/ask prices are posted as $183.50/$183.53 on the broker interface. A market order for 100 shares is placed, with the intention the order gets filled at $183.53. However, micro-second transactions by computerized programs lift the bid/ask spread to $183.54/$183.57 before the order is filled. The order is then filled at $183.57, incurring $0.04 per share or $4.00 per 100 shares negative slippage.


   Slippage and the Forex Market  

Forex slippage occurs when a market order is executed or a stop loss closes the position at a different rate than set in the order.



Slippage is more likely to occur in the forex market when volatility is high, perhaps due to news events, or during times when the currency pair is trading outside peak market hours. In both situations, reputable forex dealers will execute the trade at the next best price.


   Ways to Reduce the Impact of Slippage  

Slippage is a part of investing, although there are some ways to avoid it or limit its impact. Slippage usually occurs when markets are volatile or liquidity is lacking, so timing and the type of security you're trading can play a big role


   Trade in calm moments  

The less volatility in the market, the less chance you have of getting caught out by slippage. If you want to limit slippage, don't invest around the time of major economic announcements or important updates relating to a security you wish to trade, such as an earnings report. These types of events can move markets significantly and lead prices to jump around.


   Place limit orders instead  

Market orders are transactions to be executed as quickly as possible, whereas limit orders are orders that will only go through at a specified price or better. If you place a limit order, you can avoid negative slippage. However, there is also the risk that the order doesn’t get executed.






Some platforms allow investors to place an order while specifying the maximum amount of slippage they are willing to accept in percentage terms.




What Does Slippage Mean in Crypto?
Slippage can happen with all asset classes. With crypto, it’s perhaps more likely as the market for digital currencies tends to be more volatile and, in certain cases, less liquid.




What Is a 2% Slippage?
Some brokers allow investors to specify a maximum slippage tolerance. 2% slippage means an order being executed at 2% more or less than the expected price. For example, if you placed an order for shares in a company when they were trading at $100 and ended up paying $102 per share, you would have 2% negative slippage.




Is Positive Slippage Good?
Yes, positive slippage is good. It means you got a better price than expected.


   The Bottom Line  

Slippage, when the executed price of a trade is different from the requested price, is a part of investing. Bid/ask spreads may change in the time it takes for an order to be fulfilled. This can occur across all market venues, including equities, bonds, currencies, and futures, and is more common when markets are volatile or less liquid.



Generally, slippage can be minimalized by trading in markets where there's lots of liquidity and little price movement. And it can also work in investors’ favor. Slippage can be positive or negative. Positive slippage means the investor getting a better price than expected, while negative slippage means the opposite.
What Are Small and Midsize Enterprises (SMEs)?  

Small and midsize enterprises (SMEs) are businesses that maintain revenues, assets, or a number of employees below a certain threshold. Each country has its own definition of what constitutes a small and midsize enterprise. Certain size criteria must be met, and occasionally, the industry in which the company operates is taken into account as well.





Key Takeaways

Small and midsize enterprises (SMEs) are businesses that have revenues, assets, or a number of employees below a certain threshold.Each country has its own definition of what constitutes a small and midsize enterprise.Each country may also set different guidelines across industries to define what a small business is across sectors.SMEs play an important role in an economy, employing vast numbers of people and helping to shape innovation.Governments regularly offer incentives, including favorable tax treatment and better access to loans, to help keep SMEs in business.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   What Is the Role of SMEs in an Economy?  

Though small, SMEs play an important role in an economy. They outnumber large firms, employ vast numbers of people, and are generally entrepreneurial in nature, helping to shape innovation.



Small and midsize enterprises can exist in almost any industry but are more likely to reside within industries requiring fewer employees and smaller up-front capital investments. Common types of SMEs include legal firms, dental offices, restaurants, and bars.



SMEs are segregated from large, multinational companies because they fundamentally operate differently. Large, complex firms may require advanced enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems—for accounting, supply chain management and financial reporting, and interconnectivity across offices around the world—or deeper organizational processes. SMEs, on the other hand, may require fewer systems given their narrower scope of operations.


   Small and Midsize Enterprises (SMEs) Around the World  
  SMEs in the U.S.  

In the United States, the Small Business Administration (SBA) classifies a small business according to its ownership structure, number of employees, earnings, and industry. For example, in manufacturing, an SME is a firm with 500 or fewer employees. In contrast, businesses that mine copper ore and nickel ore can have up to 1,500 employees and still be identified as SMEs. Like the European Union (EU), the U.S. distinctly classifies companies with fewer than 10 employees as a small office/home office (SOHO).



When it comes to tax reporting, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) does not categorize businesses into SMEs. Instead, it separates small businesses and self-employed individuals into one group and midsize to large businesses into another. The IRS classifies small businesses as companies with assets of $10 million or less and large businesses as those with more than $10 million in assets.



The SBA Office of Advocacy reported almost 33.2 million small businesses in the U.S., based on the most recent available data. Of these, 82% did not have any employees. Within the U.S. economy, small businesses comprise 99.9% of all firms, 99.7% of all firms with paid employees, and 97.3% of exporters.






SMEs are disproportionally owned by White males, highlighting the lack of access to financial and entrepreneurial resources across races and genders. For example, a March 2023 report by the SBA found only 19.6% of employer firms were owned by minorities and only 21.7% of employer firms owned by women.


  SMEs in Canada  

The Canadian government issues Canadian Industry Statistics that define each type of business based on the number of employees it has.



Micro businesses have 1–4 employees.Small businesses have 5–99 employees.Medium businesses have 100–499 employees.Large businesses have 500+ employees.



In 2022, small businesses comprised 98% of all employer businesses in Canada. Small businesses employed 10.3 million individuals—three-plus times as many individuals as were employed by medium-size businesses.


  SMEs in the European Union (EU)  

The European Union (EU) offers definitions of what constitutes a small-size company as well. Small-size enterprises are companies with fewer than 50 employees, and medium-size enterprises are ones with fewer than 250 employees. In addition to small and midsize companies, there are micro-companies, which employ up to 10 employees.



As is the case in other countries, SMEs represent 99% of all businesses within the EU. SMEs employ an estimated 100 million individuals and generate more than half of the European Union’s gross domestic product (GDP).


  SMEs in China  

China’s system of classifying the size of Chinese companies is complex. In general, companies are defined based on their operating revenue, number of employees, or total assets. The following examples highlight these classifications:



Chinese retail companies are small if they employ 10 to 49 employees and have annual operating revenue of at least $1 million.Chinese real estate developers are small if they have annual operating revenue of $1 million to $10 million and total assets of $20 million to $50 million.Chinese agriculture companies are small if their annual operating revenue is $0.5 million to $5 million.



From 2021 to 2025, China is expected to invest heavily in its small and midsize enterprises. The country is expected to cultivate 1 million SMEs and 100,000 SMEs that feature innovation during this time, according to the Department of Industry and Information Technology.


  SMEs in Developing Countries  

In developing countries such as Kenya, small and midsize enterprises go by the acronym MSME, short for micro, small, and medium-size enterprises. In India, the acronym is MSMED, or micro, small, and medium enterprise development. Despite the differences in nomenclature, countries share the commonality of separating businesses according to size or structure.



Many people in emerging economies find work in small and midsize enterprises. SMEs contribute roughly 50% of total employment and 40% of GDP in these countries, according to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OCED).



The World Bank estimates that a majority of formal jobs in emerging markets (seven out of 10 jobs) are generated by SMEs. However, these small businesses often face greater financing challenges compared to their developed-country counterparts. The World Bank estimates that MSMEs in developing countries have unmet financing needs in excess of $5 trillion every year.


   The Importance of Small and Midsize Enterprises (SMEs)  

A plethora of data demonstrates the massive economic impact that SMEs have on a country’s economy. Specific to the United States, SMEs play a vital role in the success of the nation’s economy by contributing in a variety of ways.



Small businesses comprise more than 99% of all firms in the U.S.Small businesses contribute to 43.5% of the entire U.S. GDP.Small businesses pay 39.7% of the entire U.S. private payroll.Small businesses created 4.8 million more new U.S. jobs from 1995 to 2020 compared to large businesses.



Small businesses also have distinct advantages over larger companies:



SMEs can often operate more flexibly. Large companies with broader processes touching more employees may find it more difficult to act as nimbly.SMEs often garner a stronger sense of community. Slogans such as “shop local” are geared toward supporting SMEs that don’t have branches across the nation.SMEs are more likely to financially support their own community. Instead of collecting revenue and investing it in a new store across the country, SMEs are more likely to remain local, sustain local business, contribute local tax dollars, and buy from nearby suppliers.SMEs may be engrained with a rich history. Larger, complex companies may have a long history as well (especially if they’ve been financially successful). However, SMEs are more likely to carry family tradition, preserve how generations have done things, and pass down the family business.SMEs may have a narrower, more direct focus than larger businesses. Think of Apple, for example. Developing iPhones, iPads, Macs, Apple Watches, accessories, and streaming services requires the staff to support each of these departments. But an SME with limited staff must limit the scope of what it offers. Instead of attempting to have a broad market presence, successful SMEs often deeply integrate themselves into a smaller target market.





30 million

Estimated number of SMEs in the United States, according to the Office of the United States Trade Representative.


   What Incentives Are Offered to SMEs?  

U.S. SMEs can gain access to education programs and coaching help from the Small Business Administration. These insights are meant to help owners make their businesses grow and survive, as well as target high-risk areas and boost tax compliance.


  Government Incentives  

Life as a small and midsize enterprise isn’t always easy. These businesses generally struggle to attract capital to fund their endeavors and often have difficulty paying taxes and meeting regulatory compliance obligations. Governments recognize the importance of SMEs to their economies and regularly offer incentives, including favorable tax treatment and better access to loans, to help keep SMEs in business. Types of loans include:



7(a) loans that guarantee portions of the total amount, cap interest rates, and limit fees504 loans that offer fixed-rate financing over a longer duration for the purchase or repair of assets such as real estate or equipmentMicroloans for up to $50,000 to help an SME get off the ground or expand






SME loans through the SBA can range from $500 to $5.5 million.


  Small Business Investment Companies (SBICs)  

The Small Business Administration also provides funding to specific small business investment companies (SBICs). These SBICs can then use their expertise to invest private funds in small businesses. SBICs can invest debt, equity, or a combination of both. To garner consideration from an SBIC for funding, a business must meet the following universal requirements at a minimum:



The business must be a U.S. business. At least 51% of the company’s employees and assets must be within the United States.The business must meet the definition of a small business. This qualification refers to the SBA sizing standards.The business must reside in an approved industry. Specific industries, including farmland, real estate, and financing, are excluded from receiving funding.




What does SME mean?
SME stands for small and midsize enterprise. As opposed to multinational conglomerates with locations around the world, SMEs are much smaller businesses that create a majority of jobs across the world economy.




What is an example of an SME?
In 1971, a company called Starbucks opened its first store in Seattle’s historic Pike Place Market. At the time, it might have been able to claim to be an SME. But with Starbucks locations now all over the world, the company can no longer make that claim. That option has passed to other coffee shops, such as Lighthouse Roasters, an independent and locally owned coffee roaster. With a single address in Seattle, Lighthouse Roasters is considered an SME.




How many employees are employed by small to midsize businesses?
The latest U.S. Census data available states that employer firms with fewer than 500 workers accounted for 46.4% of private-sector payrolls, while companies with fewer than 100 employees accounted for 32.4%.




What is the definition of a small to midsize business?
There is no set definition of a small to midsize business, and it varies by country. In the United States, the definition can also vary by industry. Note that Gartner, the information technology (IT) consulting service, describes small businesses as those with fewer than 100 employees and midsize businesses as those with 100 to 999 employees.




What is the percentage of small to midsize businesses in the United States?
The most recent U.S. Census data for SMEs found that there were 6.1 million employer firms in the U.S. Firms with fewer than 500 employees made up 99.7% of those businesses. Companies with fewer than 100 employees made up 98.1%.


   The Bottom Line  

Small and midsize enterprises play a vital part in many economies around the world. Their innovation, flexibility, creativity, efficiency, and locality all play a part in making them successful. Through conscious consumer behavior, government assistance, and reliance on their communities, SMEs have established themselves as an important part of the broader economy.
What Is the Small Business Administration (SBA)?  

The Small Business Administration (SBA) is a U.S. government agency designed to bolster and promote the economy by assisting the country’s small businesses. Established in 1953, the SBA’s primary function is to counsel individuals who want to start and grow their own businesses. It provides a series of tools on its website to assist new and existing small business owners. The agency is headed by an administrator and deputy administrator and also has a chief counsel for advocacy and inspector general—all of whom are confirmed by the Senate. The SBA has at least one office in every state, the District of Columbia, and various American territories.





Key Takeaways

The Small Business Administration, established in 1953, is a government agency designed to bolster and promote the economy by providing assistance to small businesses.The SBA is headed by an administrator and a deputy administrator who are confirmed by the Senate.The agency offers various resources to small businesses, including access to capital, entrepreneurial development, government contracting, and advocacy services.The SBA’s loan guarantee program is one of its most visible elements.


   Understanding the SBA  

The SBA offers substantial educational information with a specific focus on assisting small businesses to develop and grow. As noted above, the agency has numerous tools for businesses that can be accessed on its website, including a small business planner and additional training programs.



According to its website, the SBA provides the following services to small businesses:



Access to capital: The agency offers a variety of financial resources for small businesses, including microlending, or small loans that are issued to those who wouldn't otherwise qualify for financing. Loans are issued by partner banks, credit unions, and other financial institutions.
Entrepreneurial development: This is driven by counseling services and low-cost training provided by the SBA and is available to both new and existing business owners in more than 1,800 locations across the United States. There's also a mentor program that connects new business owners with retired and/or existing entrepreneurs.
Contracting: The SBA reserves 23% in government contracting dollars for small businesses with the help of other federal departments and agencies. The agency guarantees 5% of these contracting dollars for women and another 3% for business owners who are disabled and veterans.
Advocacy: The agency acts as an advocate by reviewing legislation and protecting the interests of small business owners across the country. The agency also advocates for business owners at the state and federal government levels.



The agency has helped countless small businesses across the country get access to loans, loan guarantees, contracts, and other services.






Isabella Casillas Guzman is the administrator of the SBA. Prior to holding this office, she served as the director of California's Office of the Small Business Advocate. 


   The SBA Loan Program  

The loan programs offered through the SBA are among the agency's most visible offerings, and they come with longer repayment periods for small businesses. The agency doesn’t actually issue loans itself (with the exception of disaster relief loans). Instead, loans are backed or guaranteed by the SBA and issued directly by lenders that meet the agency’s guidelines.



Loans backed by the SBA include:



The 504 loan (or the grow loan), which provides a small business with up to $5.5 million in financing to buy the fixed assets it needs to run its operations, including real estate.
The 7(a) loan, which is the agency's primary loan program. The maximum loan amount guaranteed under this program is $5 million.
A disaster loan is intended to help businesses and homeowners recover from declared disasters.
Microloans of up to $50,000 (the average amount is about $13,000) are meant to help small businesses and some nonprofit childcare centers start up or expand.



Small businesses qualify for loans more easily when they are guaranteed by the SBA. The agency also allows entrepreneurs to make lower payments for a longer period of time. Despite numerous attempts to do away with the SBA entirely, many political officials and offices continue to support it. The SBA’s ability to offer loans was also significantly strengthened by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) of 2009 and the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010.






The SBA has local offices throughout the United States and associated territories that provide more-personalized special events for small business owners. These offices provide in-person, one-on-one counseling services that include instruction on writing a business plan and assistance with small business loans.


   How the SBA Can Help You Start Your Business  

The SBA has many resources available for people who want to start their own small businesses. If you have an idea for a business, this section highlights some of these resources, which can take you from start to finish.


  Business planning  

This section of the website outlines steps and provides resources related to the development of your business. These include conducting relevant market research, developing a business plan, and funding. You can also learn about what you need to do to choose:



A location for your businessA suitable business structureA business name



The SBA also provides key information about what you need to register your company, as well as how to get the appropriate tax documents, permits, and licenses. You can also find out what you need to open a business bank account.


  Launching your business  

Launching your business is just as important as starting it, which is why you’ll find some of the same resources from the section above seeping into this one. For instance, choosing your location will depend a lot on local zoning ordinances and laws. It will also affect the kind of incentives and taxes that apply to your organization.



The SBA's website has more information on these topics and also provides information on business insurance, which is a very important part of safeguarding your interests. It helps protect your business from any unforeseen losses that take place during normal operations.


   How the SBA Can Help You Manage and Grow Your Business  

The agency doesn’t just help people start and launch their own businesses; it also has resources available to help manage and grow them.


  Management  

You can learn valuable tips and tricks on how to manage your finances, hire employees, and pay taxes. Other important information includes staying compliant, how-tos for purchasing assets, and marketing and sales strategies.



Because cybersecurity is a key threat to many businesses, the SBA also provides some common sense tips to stay safe. This section can help business owners spot some of the most common scams (such as malware and ransomware) and understand and assess their risk. They can also use some of the agency's best practices to avoid cyber attacks and access SBA training and events.



This section also deals with hiring people with disabilities, what to do when you must close your business, and how to recover from disasters.


  Growing your business  

It isn’t enough just to learn how to start and run your business, which is why the SBA also has resources to help you grow. Some of the aids in this section cover how to access additional funding, how to expand, and what to expect from mergers and acquisitions (M&A).



Part of the SBA’s mandate is to guarantee a certain percentage of federal contracts to small business owners. As such, the agency encourages businesses to become federal contractors and has an easy registration process. You can also get the resources you need to improve your bottom line, via connecting with partners to help export your products and services.



You’ll also find useful information about different types of businesses, such as those owned by women, Native Americans, veterans, minorities, and members of the LGBTQ+ community, as well as rural businesses.


   The History of the SBA  

The SBA was established by President Dwight Eisenhower when he signed the Small Business Act in the summer of 1953. It replaced the Reconstruction Finance Corporation (RFC), which was created under President Herbert Hoover in 1932 after the Great Depression. The mandate of the newly formed SBA was to aid and protect the country’s small businesses and ensure that they received a fair portion of government contracts and surplus property sales.



The SBA has had a rocky history. In 1996 the agency was under threat of being eliminated by the House of Representatives. However, the agency survived this threat and went on to receive a record budget in 2000. There was also a lot of resistance to its loan program, which led to repeated cuts between 2001 and 2004. That’s when certain SBA expenditures were frozen altogether.



Small business owners were among some of the hardest hit during the COVID-19 pandemic. The SBA helped these owners, providing them with two different types of funding:



Economic Injury Disaster Loan (EIDL): This program was designed to let businesses use approved funds for working capital and other day-to-day expenses. As capital is loaned, it must be repaid. The SBA stopped accepting applications as of Jan. 1, 2022, and as of May 6, 2022, stopped accepting loan increase requests or requests for reconsideration of loan applications that had previously been declined.
EIDL Advance Programs: Funds were granted to people who filed for EIDL assistance as long as they met certain criteria. Unlike the loan program, funds approved through this program don’t have to be repaid.




What Does the Small Business Administration (SBA) Do?
The Small Business Administration (SBA) is a U.S. government agency that provides assistance to small business owners. It has a series of tools available for new and existing entrepreneurs. Its goals include providing business owners with access to capital, developing entrepreneurial spirit, reserving contracting dollars for certain business owners, and advocating on behalf of small business owners.




Where Does the SBA Get Its Funding?
The SBA receives an annual budget approved by the federal government. This money goes toward salaries, grant and loan programs, and administrative costs. Keep in mind that the SBA doesn’t actually provide loans to small businesses. Instead, the majority of loans issued to small business owners through SBA programs are guaranteed by the agency and issued by approved financial institutions and other lenders. This source of capital helps individuals start and grow their businesses.




Who Qualifies for an SBA Grant?
The SBA generally doesn’t issue grants, but it does to certain organizations that promote entrepreneurship in their communities. These include nonprofit organizations, organizations that provide their communities with training and funding (known as “resource partners”), and educational organizations. Grants are not provided to owners who want to expand an existing business or to startups.


   The Bottom Line  

The SBA is the federal government’s main resource for nurturing the growth of small businesses in the U.S. It not only provides loans, mostly through third parties, to help start or grow your business; it also offers plenty of programs designed to increase your knowledge and expertise in keeping your business healthy, from how to pay taxes to marketing and sales to cybersecurity and more.



The SBA doesn’t normally issue any grants, except for a few that go to organizations, many of them nonprofit, that promote entrepreneurship in their communities. It also advocates on behalf of small business owners. Local offices exist in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and American territories. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the SBA provided crucial financial support through both loans and grants to the small-business community, which was gravely impacted by the crisis.
What Is a Small-Cap Stock?  

A small-cap stock is a stock from a public company whose total market value, or market capitalization, is about $250 million to $2 billion. The precise figures vary.



Small-cap stock investors are generally looking for up-and-coming young companies that are growing fast. That is, they're looking for the large-cap stocks of the future.





Key Takeaways

A small-cap stock is generally that of a company with a market capitalization of between $300 million and $2 billion.Small-cap stock investors seek to beat institutional investors by focusing on growth opportunities.Small-cap stocks historically have outperformed large-cap stocks but are also more volatile and riskier.


   Understanding Small-Cap Stocks  

The "cap" in small-cap stands for capitalization. The term in its entirety is market capitalization.



This is the market's current estimate of the total dollar value of a company's outstanding shares. To calculate a company's market capitalization, multiply its current share price by the number of outstanding shares.



Classifications such as "large-cap" or "small-cap" are approximations that change over time. Furthermore, the precise definition of small-cap stocks vs. large-cap stocks may vary among brokers.



One misconception about small-cap stocks is that they are startups or brand new companies. In reality, many small-cap stocks are of companies that are well-established businesses with strong track records and great financials. And because they are smaller, small-cap stock share prices have a greater chance of growth.






   Small-Cap Stock vs. Large-Cap Stock  

As a rule, small-cap stock companies offer investors more room for growth but also bring greater risk and volatility than large-cap stock companies.



A large-cap offering has a market capitalization of $10 billion or higher. For large-cap stock companies such as General Electric (GE) and Coca-Cola Co. (KO), aggressive growth may be in the rear-view mirror. Such companies offer investors stability and dividends but rarely fast growth.



Historically, small-cap stocks have outperformed large-cap stocks. That said, whether smaller or larger companies perform better varies over time based on the broader economic climate.



For example, large-cap stock companies dominated during the tech bubble of the 1990s, as investors gravitated toward stocks such as Microsoft (MSFT), Cisco (CSCO), and AOL Time Warner. After the bubble burst in March 2000, small-cap stock companies became the better performers, as many of the large caps hemorrhaged value in the crash.



One advantage of investing in small-cap stocks is the opportunity to beat institutional investors. Many mutual funds have internal rules that restrict them from buying small-cap stock companies. In addition, the Investment Company Act of 1940 prohibits mutual funds from owning more than 10% of a company's voting stock. This makes it difficult for mutual funds to build a meaningful position in small-cap stocks.






A stock smaller than a small-cap is known as a micro-cap. That is a publicly-traded company with a market capitalization of about $50 million to $300 million.


   Small-Cap Stock vs. Mid-Cap Stock  

Investors who want the best of both worlds might consider mid-cap stocks, which have market capitalizations between $2 billion and $10 billion. Historically, these companies can offer more stability than small-cap stock companies yet confer more growth potential than large-cap stock companies.



However, for self-directed investors, spending the time to sift through small caps to find a diamond in the rough can prove to be time well spent. Even in our data-rich world, great small-cap investments fly under investors' radars because they get little coverage from analysts.


   Small-Cap Stock vs. Penny Stock  

Shares in both small-cap stocks and penny stocks have lower market value than large- or mid-cap stocks. Penny stocks have small market capitalizations, so they could be considered small-cap stocks. However, there are specific characteristics that make a stock a penny stock, which not all small-cap stocks share.



Penny stocks have share prices lower than $5. Some are traded on the New York Stock Exchange. Most, though, are traded directly (known as over the counter or through "pink sheets") rather than through a stock exchange. Penny stocks are considered high-risk investments due to their:



Low priceLack of liquidityWide bid-ask spread



Unlike a penny stock, small-cap stocks can have a share price greater than $5. They are categorized based on their market capitalization.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Small-Cap Stocks  


Small-Cap Stocks Pros and Cons

Pros

Potential for growth
Lower share price
Variety of businesses
Less popular



Cons

Volatile prices
High risk
Less available information
Low liquidity





  Advantages of Small-Cap Stocks  

Potential for growth: Because these companies are smaller, they have more potential for growth relative to large-cap companies. This means investors in them have the potential to make a large profit.Lower share price: The share price of small-cap stocks is often lower, making your initial investment easier. And share prices can't be artificially pushed up by mutual funds or hedge funds, since there are regulations to prevent financial institutions from investing heavily in them. Variety of businesses: Small-cap companies aren't only start-ups. They can be found in all industries, and many of them have been in business for a while. This provides a variety of options for investing.Less popular: Because there is less popular information about small-cap companies, they aren't as well-known as large- and mid-cap companies. This means they are often priced below their value and can provide a solid return on investment.


  Disadvantages of Small-Cap Stocks  

Volatile prices: Smaller companies react more to volatility in the market because they have less financial cushion than their larger counterparts. As a result, small-cap stocks can see sudden and wide price fluctuations. High risk: While small-cap companies have a lot of growth potential, they have equal potential to fail. Small-cap stocks are a riskier investment than large-cap stocks. The companies usually have less access to investment capital and are more sensitive to market changes. This makes them a riskier investment.Less available information: Financial institutions and analysts don't give small-cap companies as much coverage as large- and mid-cap ones. As a result, you need a solid understanding of company valuation and time to do your own research before investing.Low liquidity: The smaller size and lower popularity of small-cap companies make their stock less liquid. When a company isn't as well-known, it can be harder to find a seller when you want to buy shares. It can also be harder to sell shares when you want to exit the market.


   How to Invest in Small-Cap Stocks  

If you have the time and the knowledge necessary to research individual small-cap stocks, you can invest in individual companies. Their stock can be purchased through a brokerage account. Before investing in a company, you'll want to investigate its:



Earnings and revenue growth: Even if a company isn't yet making a profit, you want to see that it is growing and increasing its revenue.
Price-to-earnings ratio: The P/E ratio compares the current share price to the earnings per share to measure the value of the company's shares.
Price-to-sales ratio: If the company doesn't yet have any earnings per share, you can use the P/S ratio to measure how it performs compared to other small-cap stocks.



If researching individual small-cap stocks is too time-consuming or seems too risky, you can also buy small-cap mutual funds or exchange-traded funds (ETFs). These might track broad small-cap indexes, specific industries within the small-cap market, or investment goals like value or growth.


   Small-Cap Stock Indexes  

Many brokerages offer small-cap stock index funds, either as mutual funds or as ETFs, to track the U.S. small-cap market. Depending on the brokerage you use, you could, for example, invest in the Vanguard Small-Cap Index Fund (VSMX) or the Fidelity Small Cap Index Fund (FSSNX).



However, there are two main small-cap indexes that are used as benchmarks for the small-cap equities market.


  The Russell 2000  

The Russell 2000 is a small-cap stock market index composed of the 2000 smallest companies in the Russell 3000. The index is frequently used as a benchmark for measuring the performance of small-cap stock mutual funds. It is managed by London's FTSE Russell Group.



Because it tracks such a broad share of the small-cap market, the Russell 2000 is used by many mutual funds and ETFs. It is heavily weighted by financials, industrials, and healthcare.  


  S&P 600  

The S&P SmallCap 600 Index was established by Standard & Poor's (the creator of the S&P 500). It uses a capitalization-weighted index to broadly track the performance of small-cap stocks on the U.S. equities market. It includes 600 companies and represents close to 3% of the U.S. market.



Unlike many other small-cap benchmarks, the S&P 600 has an earnings requirement, which is used to ensure the quality of the stocks included and hedge against volatility. To be included, a company must have a market capitalization between $750 million and $4.6 billion. It must also:



Be a U.S. companyMaintain at least 10% of its shares outstandingHave positive earnings for both its most recent quarter and the sum of its trailing four consecutive quarters




Are Small-Cap Stocks a Good Investment?
Small-cap stocks can be a good investment. They typically have the potential for growth, much larger than large-cap stocks/blue chip companies, so if an investor gets in at a good price, they may see a good return. Small-cap stocks are more risky and volatile than the stocks of larger, more established companies, so investors must take extra care in their analysis before making any investment decisions.




Which Is Better, Small-Cap or Mid-Cap?
Whether small-cap stocks or mid-cap stocks are better depends on the specific company. Any company with good fundamentals, a strong business strategy, smart leadership, and a competitive edge, can be a good investment, whether they are a small- or mid-sized company. Small-cap stocks have more growth potential than mid-cap stocks, so investors may see a better return; however, small-cap stocks are also more risky and volatile than mid-cap stocks, so the loss potential is greater.




Is Small-Cap Good for the Long Term?
Yes, small-cap stocks can be good for the long term. If you can invest in a small-cap stock that has good fundamentals and overall healthy analysis, the stock will most likely grow over the long term. If you can invest before a bull run on the market and hold the stock for the long term, then you could see a strong financial return.


   The Bottom Line  

Small-cap stocks are the stocks of companies whose market capitalization is roughly between $300 million and $2 billion. These companies are attractive investment opportunities for investors as they have the potential for significant growth with the possibility of becoming large-cap stock companies.



Because there is more upside than a large-cap stock, investors do take on more risk; but on the bright side, small-cap stocks have historically performed better than large-cap stocks. Investors should carefully evaluate companies with a smaller market cap to determine if there is growth potential before making any investment decision in the hopes of a future windfall.
What Is Smart Beta?  

Smart beta investing combines the benefits of passive investing and the advantages of active investing strategies.



The goal of smart beta is to obtain alpha, lower risk or increase diversification at a cost lower than traditional active management and marginally higher than straight index investing. It seeks the best construction of an optimally diversified portfolio. In effect, smart beta is a combination of efficient-market hypothesis and value investing. The smart beta investment approach applies to popular asset classes, such as equities, fixed income, commodities and multi-asset classes. Economist Harry Markowitz first theorized smart Beta via his work on modern portfolio theory.


   Smart Beta Explained  

Smart beta defines a set of investment strategies that emphasize the use of alternative index construction rules to traditional market capitalization-based indices. Smart beta emphasizes capturing investment factors or market inefficiencies in a rules-based and transparent way. The increased popularity of smart beta is linked to a desire for portfolio risk management and diversification along factor dimensions, as well as seeking to enhance risk-adjusted returns above cap-weighted indices.



Smart beta strategies seek to passively follow indices, while also considering alternative weighting schemes such as volatility, liquidity, quality, value, size and momentum. That's because smart beta strategies are implemented like typical index strategies in that the index rules are set and transparent. These funds don’t track standard indices, such as the S&P 500 or the Nasdaq 100 Index, but instead, focus on areas of the market that offer an opportunity for exploitation.





Key Takeaways

Smart beta seeks to combine the benefits of passive investing and the advantages of active investing strategies.Smart beta uses alternative index construction rules to traditional market capitalization-based indices.Smart beta emphasizes capturing investment factors or market inefficiencies in a rules-based and transparent way.Smart beta strategies may use alternative weighting schemes such as volatility, liquidity, quality, value, size and momentum.In 2019, smart beta funds command $880 billion in total cumulative assets.


   Selecting Smart Beta Strategies  

There is no single approach to developing a smart beta investment strategy, as the goals for investors can be different based on their needs, though some managers are prescriptive in identifying smart beta ideas that are value-creating and economically intuitive. Equity smart beta seeks to address inefficiencies created by market-capitalization-weighted benchmarks. Funds may take a thematic approach to manage this risk by focusing on mispricing created by investors seeking short-term gains, for example.



Managers may also choose to create or follow an index that weights investments according to fundamentals, such as earnings or book value, rather than market capitalization.



Alternatively, managers may use a risk-weighted approach to smart beta that involves the establishment of an index based upon assumptions of future volatility. For instance, this may involve an analysis of historical performance and the correlation between an investment's risk relative to its return. The manager must evaluate how many assumptions they are willing to build into the index and can approach the index by assuming a combination of different correlations.


   Smart Beta Popularity  

Although smart beta funds typically attract higher fees than their vanilla counterparts, they continue to remain popular with investors. As of February 2019, 77 new smart-beta exchange-traded funds (ETFs) launched, which accounts for roughly a third of all ETFs that came to market in the past year, according to FactSet data as reported by ETF.com. Smart beta funds also attracted a more significant increase in assets under management (AUM) over the period, growing at 10.9% compared to 4.3% for vanilla funds. In total, smart beta funds command $880 billion in total cumulative assets, up from $616 billion in 2016.


   Example of Smart Beta Funds  

The following three ETFs each use a different smart beta strategy seeking value, growth and dividend appreciation, respectively:



The Vanguard Value Index Fund ETF Shares ETF (VTV) tracks the CRSP US Large Cap Value Index. Its benchmark determines value using several fundamental ratios including price-to-book (P/B), forward price-to-earnings (forward P/E), historical P/E, dividend-to-price and price-to-sales. The fund has $77.25 billion in AUM as of April 2019.



With net assets of $42.73 billion as of April 2019, the iShares Russell 1000 Growth ETF (IWF) seeks to provide similar returns to the Russell 1000® Growth Index. The underlying selects components based on three fundamental factors: price-to-book, medium-term growth forecasts, and sales per share growth.



The Vanguard Dividend Appreciation Index Fund ETF Shares (VIG) aims to return similar investment results to the Nasdaq US Dividend Achievers Select Index. The fund selects firms that have increased their dividend payments for the past 10 years and market-cap-weights its holdings. As of April 2019, VIG has AUM of $40.94 billion.
What Is a Smart Beta ETF?  

A smart Beta ETF is a type of exchange-traded fund (ETF) that uses a rules-based system for selecting investments to be included in the fund portfolio. An exchange-traded fund or ETF is a type of fund that tracks an index such as the S&P 500. Smart beta ETFs build on traditional ETFs and tailor the components of the fund's holdings based on predetermined financial metrics.





Key Takeaways

Smart Beta ETFs use a rules-based, systematic approach to choosing stocks from a particular index.A smart Beta ETF might choose companies that only exhibit certain behaviors or metrics.Smart Beta is a blend of active and passive investing.Smart Beta investing follows an index, but it also considers alternative factors in choosing the stocks from the index.Common types of smart beta ETFs include strategies that are equally weighted, fundamentally weighted, factor-based, or low volatility.


   Understanding Smart Beta ETFs  

The rules governing what stocks make up exchange-traded funds vary depending on the rules established at the fund's inception. Also, there are different weightings for each stock in a fund. Weighting means a fund might have more shares of one stock versus another based on an underlying aspect such as value. Some ETFs might track a stock index that contains only bank stocks, large companies, or technology stocks.



Market-cap weighting is one of the most common methods in selecting how many shares of a company's stock comprise an index or fund. A market-cap weighting means that a company is chosen based on its market capitalization or its share price multiplied by the number of outstanding shares. A company that has many shares outstanding, and whose stock has risen significantly, will have a significant weighting in a market-cap index.



Smart Beta doesn't employ the typical cap-weighted index strategy. Instead, it takes into account granular factors that are specific to a particular company or industry. A smart Beta ETF might choose companies that only exhibit certain behaviors or metrics. These metrics include factors like earnings growth, the momentum of a stock—the extent a stock moves up or down—or profitability. Each ETF has its own rules that are part of an overall systematic approach to picking stocks to be included in the fund.


   Types of Smart Beta ETFs  

A smart Beta ETF might screen and choose its holdings based on a company's dividend growth. Dividends are distributions paid to shareholders from the company's earnings as a reward for investing in the company. Companies that pay dividends tend to be large, well-established, and profitable companies.



Risk-weighted approaches take into account expected volatility in stocks. Funds might limit the holdings to stocks with low volatility to reduce risk in the fund. Volatility is a measure of how much a security's price fluctuates, or to the extent, it does or does not fluctuate in price. Conversely, some investors welcome risk and might want to invest in a fund that focuses on companies that have high-growth potential.



Although there are many types of Smart Beta ETF strategies, a few of the most common include:



Equally weighted: Instead of weighting the fund based on stock price and market capitalization, this strategy equally weights the factors and each holding.Fundamentally weighted: Companies are selected and weighted by such factors as total earnings, profits, revenue, or financially driven fundamentals and metrics.Factor-based: Stocks are weighted based on specific factors such as balance sheet components, underpriced valuations, or smaller companies that are growing.Low volatility: This method focuses on stocks and indexes with low volatility or small price fluctuations over a historical period.


   Passive and Active Management  

Smart Beta ETFs use a combination of both passive and active methods of investing. Active investing is akin to having an investment manager choose stocks to include in a portfolio. An actively-managed fund buys and sells stocks as needed based on various fundamental metrics like earnings or financial ratios.



A fund is passive because it tracks an index without having an investment manager choosing the stocks. Passive funds tend to have lower fees as a result. For example, a fund might track all the stocks in the S&P 500 so that it mimics or tracks each move exactly as the S&P.



Smart Beta is a blend of active and passive investing. It follows an index making it passive, but it also considers alternative factors in choosing the stocks or investments from within the index. In other words, a smart beta fund that tracks the S&P 500 index would not select every stock on the index. Instead, it might select only the ones that exhibit a specific behavior such as a certain percentage amount of revenue growth.


   Benefits Associated With Smart Beta ETFs  

Many smart Beta ETFs are designed to increase portfolio returns, maximize dividends, and lower portfolio risks.



Some might argue that one of the benefits of Smart Beta strategies is the use of equally-weighted indexing. This parameter removes the emphasis on stocks in the index with the largest market-cap weightings. With market-cap weightings, if the largest stocks or holdings underperform, they will have a sizable impact on the performance of the index relative to the smallest components of the index.



Smart beta is not a passive strategy like the traditional market capitalization-weighted index funds. While many Smart Beta ETFs have higher expense ratios than passive index products, they are less expensive than most actively managed funds.



Smart Beta ETFs are ideal for investors hoping to maximize their income and returns while also allowing for the potential to minimize risk.


   Risks Associated With Smart Beta ETFs  

Smart Beta ETFs are still a relatively new method of investing and can exhibit low trading volumes. Low trading volume or liquidity can result in investors not being able to sell or exit their positions easily.



Trading costs can be high to re-establish the original index weighting. This increase in price comes from the fund purchasing stocks from the index that is to be included in the fund. As a result, the fees charged for smart Beta might be lower than actively managed funds, but the savings might not be significant.



Smart Beta ETFs can underperform traditional indexes, such as the S&P 500 since they need to be constantly readjusted to the indexes. In other words, holdings are added and sold based on the rules of the fund. Since smart Beta ETFs have so many variables to consider, trading them can be more difficult than trading with traditional indexes. As a result, the prices of smart Beta ETFs can vary from the fund's underlying value.





Pros

Smart Beta is a blend of active and passive investing, following an index but also considering alternative factors.
Smart Beta ETFs rely less on market-cap weightings to avoid one stock overly influencing an ETF's value.
These funds have lower fees than actively-managed funds.
Smart Beta ETFs allow for flexibility in choosing holdings and their behaviors including risk-based approaches.



Cons

Some smart Beta ETFs can be expensive since stocks have to be bought and sold to meet the fund's rules.
Smart Beta funds can underperform the passive indexes since they are traded continuously versus a buy and hold strategy.
Trading volume can be low leading to difficulty buying and selling the funds.
Smart Beta ETFs typically have higher fees than passively index-based funds.





   Real-World Example of Smart Beta Funds   

The Vanguard Dividend Appreciation Index Fund ETF Shares (VIG) is a smart-beta ETF that tracks an index of stocks that pay dividends. The fund chooses companies from the Nasdaq US Dividend Achievers Select Index. However, the VIG adds a layer of specific criteria that are needed for a company to be included in the fund's holdings. The VIG chooses companies that have made dividend increases for 10 consecutive years.



The expenses ratio is low at 0.06% and has companies from several industries including;



Microsoft Corp.JPMorgan Chase & Co.Walmart Inc.PepsiCo. Inc.Johnson & Johnson



We can see from the list that the companies are well established, which is typical for companies that have consistently paid a dividend over the years. Since dividends are paid from earnings, only the most profitable companies can consistently pay them.
What Is a Smart Contract?  

A smart contract is a self-executing program that automates the actions required in an agreement or contract. Once completed, the transactions are trackable and irreversible.



Smart contracts permit trusted transactions and agreements to be carried out among disparate, anonymous parties without the need for a central authority, legal system, or external enforcement mechanism.



While blockchain technology has come to be thought of primarily as the foundation for Bitcoin​, it has evolved far beyond underpinning a virtual currency.





What You Need to Know

Smart contracts are scripts that automate the actions specific to a contract between two parties.Smart contracts do not contain legal language, terms, or agreements—only code that executes actions when specified conditions are met.Nick Szabo, an American computer scientist who invented a virtual currency called "Bit Gold" in 1998, defined smart contracts as computerized transaction protocols that execute the terms of a contract.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   History of Smart Contracts  

Smart contracts were first proposed in 1994 by Nick Szabo, an American computer scientist who invented a virtual currency called "Bit Gold" in 1998, 10 years before Bitcoin was introduced. In fact, Szabo is often rumored to be the real Satoshi Nakamoto, the anonymous Bitcoin inventor, which he has denied.



Szabo defined smart contracts as computerized transaction protocols that execute the terms of a contract. He wanted to extend the functionality of electronic transaction methods, such as POS (point of sale), to the digital realm. 



In his paper, Szabo also proposed the execution of a contract for synthetic assets, such as derivatives and bonds. Szabo wrote, "These new securities are formed by combining securities (such as bonds) and derivatives (options and futures) in a wide variety of ways. Very complex term structures for payments...can now be built into standardized contracts and traded with low transaction costs, due to computerized analysis of these complex term structures."






Smart contracts do not contain the legal language or terms of a contract between two parties. They are scripts that contain if/then statements, functions, module imports, and other programming that automate the actions specified in a contract.



Many of Szabo's predictions in the paper came true in ways preceding blockchain technology. For example, derivatives trading is now mostly conducted through computer networks using complex term structures.


   Smart Contract Uses  

Because smart contracts execute agreements, they can be used for many different purposes. One of the simplest uses is ensuring transactions between two parties occur, such as the purchase and delivery of goods. For example, a manufacturer needing raw materials can set up payments using smart contracts, and the supplier can set up shipments. Then, depending on the agreement between the two businesses, the funds could be transferred automatically to the supplier upon shipment or delivery.



Real estate transactions, stock and commodity trading, lending, corporate governance, supply chain, dispute resolution, and healthcare are only a few examples where smart contracts can be used.


   Smart Contract Pros and Cons  

The primary benefit of smart contracts is similar to the benefit of blockchain technology—they remove the need for third parties. Other benefits of this technology are:



Efficiency: They speed up contract executionAccuracy: There can be no human error introducedImmutability: The programming cannot be altered



Some of the downfalls of smart contracts are:



Permanent: They cannot be changed if there are mistakesHuman factor: They rely on the programmer to ensure the code addresses the terms of the contractLoopholes: There may be loopholes in the coding, allowing for contracts to be executed in bad faith




What Is an Example of a Smart Contract?
The simplest example of a smart contract is a transaction between a consumer and a business, where a sale is made. The smart contract executes the customer's payment and the business's shipment or transfer of ownership.




What Blockchain Has Smart Contracts?
Ethereum has smart contract capabilities inherent to its blockchain. The Bitcoin blockchain received smart contract abilities after its Taproot upgrade, which allowed it to communicate to layers that have smart contracts enabled on their blockchains.




What Are Smart Contracts in Simple Terms?
Smart contracts are apps on a blockchain that make each side of a transaction complete its part. For example, a smart contract could initiate a fund transfer with a third party to verify that the transfer took place.


   The Bottom Line  

Smart contracts are code written into a blockchain that executes the terms of an agreement or contract from outside the chain. It automates the actions that would otherwise be completed by the parties in the agreement, which removes the need for both parties to trust each other.



Investing in cryptocurrencies and other Initial Coin Offerings (“ICOs”) is highly risky and speculative, and this article is not a recommendation by Investopedia or the writer to invest in cryptocurrencies or other ICOs. Since each individual's situation is unique, a qualified professional should always be consulted before making any financial decisions. Investopedia makes no representations or warranties as to the accuracy or timeliness of the information contained herein. As of the date this article was written, the author does not own cryptocurrency.
What Is Smart Money?  

Smart money is the capital that is being controlled by institutional investors, market mavens, central banks, funds, and other financial professionals. Smart money was originally a gambling term that referred to the wagers made by gamblers with a track record of success.





Key Takeaways

Smart money is capital placed in the market by institutional investors, market mavens, central banks, funds, and other financial professionals.Smart money also refers to the force that influences and moves financial markets, often led by the actions of central banks.Smart money is invested on a much larger scale than retail investments.






   Understanding Smart Money  

Smart money is cash invested or wagered by those considered experienced, well informed, “in the know,” or all three. There is little empirical evidence to support the notion that smart-money investments perform better than non-smart-money investments; however, such influxes of cash influence many speculation methods.



The term “smart money” comes from gamblers who had a deep knowledge of the sport they were betting on or insider knowledge that the public was unable to tap into. The investing world is similar. The populace perceives that the smart money is invested by those with a fuller understanding of the market or information that a regular investor cannot access. As such, the smart money is considered to have a much better chance of success when the trading patterns of institutional investors diverge from retail investors.



Smart money also refers to the collective force of big money that can move markets. In this context, the central bank is the force behind smart money, and individual traders are riding the coattails of the smart money.



In the context of gambling, smart money refers to those who earn a living on their bets; many gamblers use historical mathematical algorithms to decide how much and on what to wager.


   Identifying Smart Money  

To identify smart money, one should look for the following signs:



Large transactions: Smart-money investors often make large, strategic investments in companies that they believe will perform well in the long term. Thus, one should perform some level of volume analysis of securities or the derivatives to determine where the smart money typically is or has recently gone.
Insider buying: Insiders such as company executives or board members are considered smart money because they typically would have additional information on the respective company that they are a part of. When these individuals purchase shares of their own company, it can be a sign of confidence in the company’s future prospects.
Places with strong growth potential: Smart-money investors often focus on sectors or industries that are expected to experience significant growth in the future, such as technology or healthcare.
Long-term investment horizon: Holding onto investments for several years and allowing these investments to grow and mature is typically a sign of smart money.
Fundamental analysis: Smart-money investors typically conduct in-depth fundamental analysis, including analyzing financial statements, management teams, and market trends.



Knowing how to spot smart money does not mean one should refrain from conducting their own research and analysis before making any investment decisions.


   Tracking Smart Money  

There are several ways to track smart money in the financial markets. Some methods include:



CFTC filings: The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) requires large traders, including institutional investors and hedge funds, to report their positions in futures contracts. These reports, known as Commitments of Traders (COT) reports, can provide valuable information about the trading activities of smart-money investors.
Volume analysis: Smart-money investors often make large trades that can be detected by analyzing trading volumes from various securities and derivatives. From this analysis, one can determine whether smart money is buying or selling.
Insider trading reports: Insider trading reports can provide valuable information about the transactions of company insiders, which can be a sign of smart-money activity.
13F filings: Institutional investors with more than $100 million in assets under management are required to file a quarterly report called a 13F with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These reports disclose the institution’s holdings of publicly traded securities, providing insight into the investment strategies of smart-money investors.
Hedge fund databases: Hedge funds are considered smart money. There are a number of databases that track the holdings of hedge funds. These databases can be a good source of information about which stocks smart-money investors are trading or investing.
News and market sentiment analysis: Smart-money investors often have access to information and resources that allow them to analyze market sentiment and make informed investment decisions. By tracking news and sentiment analysis, investors can get a sense of the direction of the market and whether smart-money investors are bullish or bearish.


   The Scale of Smart Money  

Investors with large followings, such as Warren Buffett, are considered smart-money investors, but the scale of their activities is not always taken into account. When the cash reserves at Buffett’s company, Berkshire Hathaway, accumulate and are not invested, this is definitely a sign that Buffett does not see many value opportunities in the market. However, Buffett functions on a different scale. A $25,000 investment is not too significant in a billion-dollar portfolio.



Buffett’s smart money acquires companies rather than takes a position. Institutional investors of Buffett’s size need scale for overall portfolio impact. Therefore, even when the smart money is out of value picks in the current market conditions, it does not mean that opportunities—particularly for modestly sized stocks—are absent.




What is the typical transaction size of smart money?
Smart-money transactions can range from tens of millions to hundreds of millions or even billions of dollars. These investors often are able to negotiate favorable terms and access to exclusive investment opportunities due to their size and expertise.




Who is considered smart money?
Institutional investors, hedge funds, private equity firms, high-net-worth individuals (HNWIs), corporate executives, and board members of large companies are all considered smart money.




What are the characteristics of smart money?
Smart-money investors are often highly analytical and research-driven, using a variety of tools and resources to analyze the financial markets and identify investment opportunities. They often have a long-term investment horizon and focus on building portfolios that would generate consistent returns over time. Also, smart-money investors often have a disciplined approach to investing, with a clear investment criteria and a process for evaluating investment opportunities.


   The Bottom Line  

Smart money refers to investments made by experienced investors, such as institutional investors, hedge funds, or private equity firms, with a proven track record of success in the financial markets. These investors typically have access to significant resources and deep understanding of the markets, and they often focus on sectors or industries with strong growth potential.



To track smart money, investors can analyze data sources such as CFTC filings, volume analysis, insider trading reports, 13F filings, news analysis, and market sentiment analysis. While identifying smart money can provide valuable insights, it is important to conduct thorough research and analysis before making any investment decisions.
What Is the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act?  

The Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act of 1930 raised U.S. import duties with the goal of protecting American farmers and other industries from foreign competition. The Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act is now widely blamed for worsening the severity of the Great Depression in the U.S. and around the world.



Formally called the United States Tariff Act of 1930, the law is commonly referred to as the Smoot-Hawley Tariff or the Hawley-Smoot Tariff. It was sponsored by Sen. Reed Owen Smoot (R-Utah) and Rep. Willis Chatman Hawley (R-Ore.).





Key Takeaways

The Smoot-Hawley Act was created to protect U.S. farmers and other industries from foreign competitors.The Smoot-Hawley Act increased tariffs on foreign imports to the U.S. by about 20%.At least 25 countries responded by increasing their own tariffs on American goods.Global trade plummeted, contributing to the ill effects of the Great Depression.Prior to signing the Act, more than 1000 economists urged President Hoover to veto it.Hoover's successor, President Franklin D. Roosevelt worked to reduce tariffs and was given more authority to negotiate with heads of state under the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act of 1934.


   Understanding the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act  

The Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act, enacted in June 1930, added about 20% to the United States' already high import duties on foreign agricultural products and manufactured goods. The Fordney-McCumber Act of 1922 previously raised the average import tax on foreign goods to about 40%.



The initial focus of the Smoot-Hawley legislation was to increase protection for U.S. farmers, who were struggling to compete with agricultural imports from overseas, particularly from Europe. Soon, lobbyists for other sectors of American industry began demanding similar protection for their own products.


   Effect of the Great Crash of 1929  

The first effort to pass the bill failed, stymied by moderate Senate Republicans early in 1929. However, with the stock market crash that year, the appeal of protectionist and isolationist sentiments increased. The bill passed by a narrow margin of 44 to 42 in the Senate, but it sailed through the House of Representatives with a vote of 222 to 153.



President Herbert Hoover signed the act into law on June 17, 1930, despite widespread opposition that included a petition signed by more than 1,000 economists urging him to veto it.






The official U.S. Senate website calls Smoot-Hawley "among the most catastrophic acts in congressional history."



Hoover optimistically noted that he had the authority under the act to increase or decrease specific tariffs by as much as 50%, allowing him to "expedite prompt and effective action if grievances develop."


   A Global Reaction  

Grievances developed almost immediately. The tariff increases in Smoot-Hawley strained the economies of countries already suffering from the Great Depression and the costs of rebuilding after World War I.



One notable loser in the trade wars was Germany, which was already struggling to repay war reparations to the U.S. and other nations that emerged victorious from the war.



As the Nobel Prize-winning M.I.T. economist Paul A. Samuelson noted in his widely used textbook Economics, "Cynics were delighted at the spectacle of a country trying to collect debts from abroad and at the same time shutting out the import goods that could alone have provided the payment for those debts."





66%

The amount of international trade declined worldwide between 1929 and 1934, partly due to the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act of 1930.



Soon, 25 countries retaliated by increasing their own tariffs. As a result, international trade declined drastically, resulting in a worldwide decline of 66% between 1929 and 1934. Both U.S. exports and imports dropped substantially.


   A Change in Direction  

In the 1932 elections, President Hoover was defeated by Franklin D. Roosevelt and both Smoot and Hawley lost their seats in Congress. On taking office, President Roosevelt began working to reduce the tariffs.



Congress passed the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act in 1934. That law transferred the authority for tariff policy to the White House, authorizing the president to negotiate with foreign heads of state for lower tariffs at both ends.



Over the following decades, the United States steadily encouraged international trade by taking a lead role in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), and the World Trade Organization (WTO).



To this day, economists differ on the extent to which the Smoot-Hawley Act worsened the Great Depression. Some say its effect was minimal because international trade was then a relatively minor part of the U.S. economy.



But no one seems to think it was a good idea. The official U.S. Senate website refers to Smoot-Hawley as "among the most catastrophic acts in congressional history."




What Was the Purpose of the Smoot-Hawley Tariff of 1930?
The Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act of 1930 was enacted to protect U.S. farmers from foreign competition by increasing tariffs on certain foreign goods. It was also purposed to offer protections to other industries from foreign competitors.




Did the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act Cause the Great Depression?
The Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act did not cause the Great Depression; however, it worsened conditions during that time. The Act increased tariffs, which further stressed struggling nations—including those in debt to the U.S.—and caused other nations to retaliate by imposing their own tariffs. As a result, international trade decreased significantly.




What Did Investors Fear as a Result of the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act?
Investors feared that the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act would cause prices to fall. Their fears became reality, prompting many to sell shares in record-breaking numbers.




How Did European Countries React to the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act?
European nations greatly disfavored the Hawley Smoot Tariff. The Hawley Smoot Tariff prompted these countries to impose their own tariffs on foreign goods, especially those from the United States. These retaliation tariffs crippled international trade and worsened conditions during the Great Depression.
What Is a Smurf?  

A smurf is a colloquial term for a money launderer who seeks to evade scrutiny from government agencies by breaking up large transactions into a set of smaller transactions that are each below the reporting threshold. Smurfing is an illegal activity that can have serious consequences.



Current bank regulations require banks or other financial institutions to report cash transactions exceeding $10,000—or any others they deem suspicious—on a suspicious activity report (SAR).





Key Takeaways

Smurfing is a money-laundering technique involving the structuring of large amounts of cash into multiple small transactions.Smurfs often spread these small transactions over many different accounts, to keep them under regulatory reporting limits and avoid detection.Smurfing is a form of structuring, in which criminals use small, cumulative transactions to remain below financial reporting requirements.The Patriot Act gave law enforcement agencies broader powers to curb money laundering by putting in place reporting requirements for any deposits, withdrawals, or currency exchanges exceeding $10,000.The term "smurf" appears to be borrowed from illegal drug manufacturers, who use multiple accomplices to evade the legal purchasing limits of drug components.


   Understanding Smurfing  

Smurfing involves depositing illegally gained money into multiple bank accounts for under-the-radar transfer in the near future.



To prevent money laundering by criminals involved in illegal activities, such as drugs and extortion, countries such as the United States and Canada require a currency transaction report to be filed by a financial institution handling any transaction exceeding $10,000 in cash.



To evade these reporting requirements, criminal groups might attempt to cover their tracks by splitting their cash into multiple smaller deposits and dividing them between a number of geographically dispersed accounts. This is a form of structuring transactions to avoid regulatory detection.



Shortly after the 9/11 terrorist attacks, the USA Patriot Act expanded anti-money-laundering measures by allowing investigative tools designed for organized crime and drug trafficking prevention to be used in terrorist investigations and making reporting of transactions of $10,000 or more mandatory.


   How a Smurf Works  

Smurfing takes place in three stages: placement, layering, and integration. In the placement stage, the criminal is relieved of guarding large amounts of illegally obtained cash by placing it into the financial system. For example, a smurf may pack cash in a suitcase and smuggle it to another country for gambling, buying international currency, or other reasons.



During the layering stage, illicit money is separated from its source by a sophisticated layering of financial transactions that obscures the audit trail and breaks the link to the original crime. For example, a smurf may move funds electronically from one country to another, then divide the money into investments placed in advanced financial options or overseas markets.



The integration stage is when the money is returned to the criminal. Although there are numerous ways of getting the money back, funds must appear to come from a legitimate source, and the process must not draw attention. For example, valuables such as property, artwork, jewelry, or high-end automobiles may be purchased and given to the criminal.


   Example of Smurfing  

One way criminals move money internationally is known as “cuckoo smurfing.” Suppose that a New York criminal owes a London criminal $9,000, and a London merchant owes a New York supplier $9,000.



The London merchant goes to London Bank and deposits $9,000, with instructions to transfer the money to the New York supplier’s bank.The London banker, working with the New York criminal, instructs the New York criminal to deposit $9,000 in the New York supplier’s bank account.The London banker then transfers $9,000 from the London merchant’s account to the London criminal’s account.



The London merchant and the New York supplier do not know the funds were never directly transferred. All they know is that the London merchant paid $9,000 and the New York supplier received $9,000. However, if caught, the London banker could face serious consequences.



Another common method is structuring transactions with a group of accomplices, each with their own bank accounts. For example, a person might have $50,000 to send abroad, which would ordinarily trigger a Currency Transaction Report and call attention to the source of their income. In order to avoid a CTR, that person could have ten accomplices make bank transfers of $5,000 each. Even if the money is legally sourced, the act of dividing the transaction to avoid being reported is itself a crime.





Warning

There is no general law against handling large sums of money. However, the act of structuring transactions to evade federal reporting limits is a serious crime, even if the money is legally sourced.


   Smurf FAQs  
  Why Is It Called Smurfing?  

The name "Smurf" appears to be borrowed from illicit methamphetamine manufacturers. In order to accumulate regulated precursor chemicals, drug manufacturers will often send accomplices to make multiple purchases at multiple locations, without exceeding the legal purchasing limits.


  What Is Smurfing in Money Laundering?  

In finance, Smurfing refers to the practice of avoiding regulatory scrutiny by dividing a large sum of money into multiple smaller transactions, sometimes divided into multiple different accounts.


  Why Is Smurfing Bad?  

Smurfing is a form of money-laundering which may allow criminal groups to move illegally acquired money into the regulated financial system.


  What Is Smurfing in Cybersecurity?  

Unrelated to financial Smurfing, in cybersecurity Smurfing refers to a Distributed Denial-of-Service Attack in which multiple servers are tricked into communicating with the target all at once. Although each contact is small, the cumulative effect is to make the target's network unusable.
What Is a Social Audit?  

A social audit is a formal review of a company's endeavors, procedures, and code of conduct regarding social responsibility and the company's impact on society. A social audit is an assessment of how well the company is achieving its goals or benchmarks for social responsibility.





Key Takeaways

A social audit is a formal review of a company's endeavors, procedures, and code of conduct regarding social responsibility and the company's impact on society. A social audit is an assessment of how well the company is achieving its goals or benchmarks for social responsibility.Ideally, companies aim to strike a balance between profitability and social responsibility.


   Understanding a Social Audit  

Ideally, companies aim to strike a balance between profitability and social responsibility. A social audit is an internal examination of how a particular business is affecting society. The audit helps companies to determine if they're meeting their objectives, which may include measurable goals and benchmarks. A social audit serves as a way for a business to see if the actions being taken are being positively or negatively received and relates that information to the company’s overall public image.



In the era of corporate social responsibility, corporations are often expected to deliver value to consumers and shareholders as well as meet environmental and social standards. Social audits can help companies create, improve, and maintain a positive public relations image. For many companies, a good public perception helps foster a positive image of the company and ultimately reduce negative impacts on earnings from bad press.


   Items Examined in a Social Audit  

The scope of a social audit can vary and be wide-ranging. The assessment can include social and public responsibility but also employee treatment. Some of the guidelines and topics that comprise a social audit include the following:



Environmental impact resulting from the company's operationsTransparency in reporting any issues regarding the effect on the public or environment.Accounting and financial transparencyCommunity development and financial contributionsCharitable givingVolunteer activity of employeesEnergy use or impact on footprintWork environment including safety, free of harassment, and equal opportunityWorker pay and benefitsNondiscriminatory practicesDiversity



There is no standard for the items included in a social audit. Social audits are optional, which means that companies can choose whether to release the results publicly or only use them internally.



The flexibility surrounding social audits allow companies the ability to expand or contract the scope based on their goals. While one company might wish to understand the impact it has on a particular town or city, other companies might choose to expand the range of the audit to include an entire state, country, or throughout the globe.


   Example of a Social Audit  

Salesforce.com (CRM) is a Fortune 500 company and one of the largest enterprise software companies in the U.S. As part of its social audit and assessment, the company has strived to use 100% renewable energy globally. The company lists its findings including an annual Stakeholder Impact Report on its website. Below is a portion of the report from 2017. 






By continuously striving to meet and exceed their social responsibility benchmarks, companies can improve their public perception over time; social audits help companies achieve a balance between profits and ethics.



According to the company's website, Salesforce was one of the first cloud companies to commit to powering all data center operations with renewable energy. Below is a graph from the company's stakeholder report showing where the company stands in its goal of 100% renewable energy.















Salesforce Social Audit Example.
 Investopedia


   Use of Social Audit Findings  

Since social audits are voluntary, any release of the findings to the general public is also voluntary. While positive results might be disclosed, negative results might be kept internal and used to identify potential improvements that can make the results of the next social audit more favorable.



For example, a company might find out through its assessment that the company was not adequately involved in charitable activities within the community. As a result, company executives could enact initiatives with measurable goals designed to increase community involvement. The activities could be monitored and analyzed during the next social audit.



By continuously striving to meet and exceed its social responsibility benchmarks, the company can improve its public perception over time. In short, social audits help companies achieve a balance between profits and ethics.
What Is Social Economics?  

Social economics is a social science and a branch of economics that focuses on the relationship between social behavior and economics. Social economics is also referred to as socioeconomics.



Social economics is primarily concerned with the interplay between social processes and economic activity within a society. Social economics may attempt to explain how a particular social group or socioeconomic class behaves within a society, including their actions as consumers.





Key Takeaways

Social economics is a social science and branch of economics that focuses on the relationship between social behavior and economics.Social economists may borrow the tools of other social sciences such as psychology or sociology.The theories of social economics often consider factors that are outside the focus of mainstream economics, including the effect of the environment and ecology on consumption and wealth.Social economics may attempt to explain how a particular social group or socioeconomic class behaves within a society, including their actions as consumers.Social economists may examine the factors and decisions that relate to a person's educational level, health outcomes, or involvement in crime or violence.


   Understanding Social Economics  

Theories of social economics sometimes diverge from conventional economic theories. They may consider factors that are outside the focus of mainstream economics, including the effect of the environment and ecology on consumption and wealth.



Social economists frequently study the different economic choices by people in different socioeconomic classes. A socioeconomic class is a group of people with similar characteristics. These characteristics can include social and economic standing, level of education, current profession, and ethnic background or heritage.



Different socioeconomic classes may have different priorities regarding how they direct their funds, or they may be unable to afford certain goods or services due to their income limitations. These goods or services can include access to more advanced or complete medical care, educational opportunities, and the ability to buy food that meets specific nutritional guidelines.



There are two broad perspectives in social economics. Though opposite in their approach, they can be thought of as complementary. The first, pioneered by Nobelist Gary Becker, applies the basic theoretical and applied tools of neoclassical microeconomics to areas of human behavior that are not traditionally considered part of the economic sciences, such as crime and punishment, drug abuse, marriage, and family decisions.



The second perspective applies the ideas of other social sciences, such as sociology, psychology, and identity group studies to subjects of an economic nature like consumer behavior or labor markets. These practitioners of social economics use history, current events, politics, and other social sciences to predict social trends that could potentially impact the economy. This strand of social economics is the primary focus of this article.






In addition to income, socioeconomic status is also related to factors like education, family structure, occupation, and membership of certain ethnic minority groups.


   Impact of Social Economics  

According to the American Psychological Association, socioeconomic factors may reveal inequalities surrounding wealth, education, or status. These background factors may play a role in a person's life decisions, such as their career or family choices.



Some of these socioeconomic relationships are explained below:


  Families  

There are strong correlations between socioeconomic status and family structure, as well as other outcomes such as parenting practices and childhood development. Single-parent households are more likely to be low-income, and low-income households are more likely to suffer from domestic violence and child neglect. These disparities also manifest in worse health outcomes later in life.


  Education  

Children with lower socioeconomic status tend to enter school with lower levels of reading and linguistic development, as well as lower social skills. In later years, these deficiencies may manifest themselves in lower levels of academic success and, ultimately, in lower incomes when they reach adulthood.


  Ethnic and Minority Status  

There are strong correlations between socioeconomic status and membership in indigenous or other ethnic minorities, particularly those that have historically suffered from discrimination. Membership of some minority groups may correlate to higher levels of unemployment or substance abuse, as well as poorer mental and physical health.


  Violence  

Although interpersonal violence can occur at any socioeconomic level, people from lower socioeconomic backgrounds tend to have greater exposure to violence, especially in their formative years. Exposure to violence can negatively affect a person's academic and employment outcomes, and domestic violence is also a major cause of homelessness.


   Example of Social Economics  

An individual’s socioeconomic status can significantly impact their educational attainment and financial security. An individual from an affluent social class will likely have a greater opportunity to achieve higher education and may be expected to pursue such a goal, while those from low-income families generally do not have the same opportunities available to them.



For example, low-income families may not be able to pay for their children's participation in team sports, music lessons, or private tutoring, which can propel them toward achieving a prosperous future (as well as provide them with growing confidence to take on more challenges). Also, these children may attend overcrowded schools where education is underfunded or understaffed.



Completing higher education is more likely to increase their income potential, as well as provide opportunities to interact with people of similar or more advanced social standing and build beneficial social networks.



In contrast, higher education may not be attainable for an individual existing at or below the poverty level. Many studies have revealed that young children from families existing at or below the poverty level develop academic skills slower than children from affluent social classes. A lower socioeconomic status is also related to poor cognitive development, language, memory, socioemotional processing, and consequently poor income and health in adulthood.



What's more, school systems in communities that are primarily populated by those at or below the poverty level are often underresourced, which negatively impacts students’ academic progress and outcomes. Poor academic skills and progress, combined with high dropout rates, can impact children’s academic achievement in the long term.




What Are Examples of Socioeconomic Factors?
In addition to income, socioeconomic status also includes other factors such as educational levels, financial security, environmental factors, and subjective perceptions of social status and class.




What Is Socioeconomic Well Being?
Socioeconomic well-being means the mix of social and economic factors that produce the best outcomes for a person's health and well-being. Although a high income is not strictly necessary, a sufficient level of financial security is a significant factor in mental and physical health as well as educational outcomes.




How Do You Calculate Socioeconomic Status?
There are three key measures for determining someone's socioeconomic status, according to the National Committee on Vital and Health Statistics: income, education, and occupation. In addition, the American Psychological Association also recommends considerations of family size, since the number of earners and dependents in a household has a strong impact on the family's financial security. One may also consider subjective factors, such as occupational prestige or a person's subjective perceptions of social class.




What Income Is Considered Low Socioeconomic Status?
Although income is not the only element in someone's sociological status, it is an important measure of a person's ability to obtain better health and educational outcomes. In the United States, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) gauges income levels as a percentage of the Area Median Income (AMI). A family earning less than 80% of the AMI is considered low-income, and a family earning less than 50% of the AMI is considered Very Low Income. These categories are used to allocate housing vouchers and other assistance.
What Is a Social Enterprise?  

A social enterprise or social business is defined as a business with specific social objectives that serve its primary purpose. Social enterprises seek to maximize profits while maximizing benefits to society and the environment, and the profits are principally used to fund social programs.





Key Takeaways

A social enterprise is a business with social objectives. Maximizing profits is not the primary goal of a social enterprise as is with a traditional business.Unlike a charity, social enterprises pursue endeavors that generate revenues, which fund their social causes.Regarding employment, preference is given to job-seekers from at-risk communities.Funding for a social enterprise is often obtained by selling services and goods. 


   Understanding Social Enterprises  

The concept of a social enterprise was developed in the U.K. in the late 1970s to counter the traditional commercial enterprise. Social enterprises exist at the intersection of the private and volunteer sectors. They seek to balance activities that provide financial benefits with social goals, such as housing for low-income families or job training.



Funding is obtained primarily by selling goods and services to consumers, although some funding is obtained through grants. Because profit-maximization is not the primary goal, a social enterprise operates differently than a standard company.



While earning profits is not the primary motivation behind a social enterprise, revenue still plays an essential role in the venture's sustainability. Sustainable revenue differentiates a social enterprise from a traditional charity that relies on outside funding to fulfill its social mission. This goal does not mean social enterprises cannot be profitable. Instead, it's simply that their priority is to reinvest profits into their social mission rather than fund payouts to shareholders. 






The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) identifies social enterprises as being highly participatory, with stakeholders actively involved and a minimum number of paid employees.


   Social Enterprise vs. Social Entrepreneurship  

A social enterprise is not to be confused with social entrepreneurship, which focuses on individuals who develop solutions to social and environmental problems using existing business techniques and strategies. Social entrepreneurs seek innovative ways to drive change, whereas social enterprises form to fulfill a business purpose and solve societal needs through their commercial activities.


   Examples of a Social Enterprise  

Many social enterprises successfully maximize improvements in social well-being. For example, Warby Parker is an American eyeglass retailer that donates a pair of glasses to someone in need for every pair sold. TOMS, a California-based retailer, similarly has pledged to donate a pair of shoes or sunglasses for every pair sold. Also, Radicle trains businesses and gives them software tools to track and cut their greenhouse gas emissions.


   Special Considerations  

Employees of social enterprises come from many backgrounds, but priority is given to those from at-risk sections of the communities. These may include long-term underemployed workers, who have historically worked in jobs where they were informally paid.



Social enterprise opportunities may seek to provide a living wage, which is above the minimum wage in most cities. Some social enterprises may pointedly seek out employees from at-risk groups as a requirement for hire.




What Are Examples of Social Enterprise?
Social enterprises are usually a blend of private and volunteer sectors. A credit union, a coffee shop that sells fair-trade beans and hires candidates from at-risk communities, or a neighborhood food co-op are all examples of social enterprises.




How Can I Start a Social Enterprise?
If you own a business, you could partner with a nonprofit, food pantry (if applicable), or other charity and donate your time, money, or products. If you are starting from the ground up, the first step may be to identify a problem and your solution to it, explain to potential funders your action plan, and make sure you have experts to back up and support your endeavor.




How Can I Get Hired to Work for a Social Enterprise?
If you want to get hired by a social enterprise, you should understand both the for-profit and the social benefits that it provides. Many employees of social enterprises are from diverse backgrounds and some may come from at-risk communities. Like any job, the qualifications will likely be based on experience and education, as well.
What Is a Social Entrepreneur?  

A social entrepreneur is a person who pursues novel applications that have the potential to solve community-based problems. These individuals are willing to take on the risk and effort to create positive changes in society through their initiatives. Social entrepreneurs may believe that this practice is a way to connect you to your life's purpose, help others find theirs, and make a difference in the world (all while eking out a living).



Widespread use of ethical practices—such as impact investing, conscious consumerism, and corporate social responsibility programs—facilitates the success of social entrepreneurs.





Key Takeaways

A social entrepreneur is interested in starting a business for the greater social good and not just the pursuit of profits.Social entrepreneurs may seek to produce environmentally-friendly products, serve an underserved community, or focus on philanthropic activities.Social entrepreneurship is a growing trend, alongside socially responsible investing (SRI) and environmental, social, and governance (ESG) investing.The four primary types of social entrepreneurs are community social entrepreneurs, non-profit social entrepreneurs, transformational social entrepreneurs, and global social entrepreneurs.Social entrepreneurs design their thinking around the 6 P's of launching an idea: people, problem, plan, prioritize, prototype, and pursue.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding Social Entrepreneurs  

While most entrepreneurs are motivated by the potential to earn a profit, the profit motive does not prevent the ordinary entrepreneur from having a positive impact on society. In his book The Wealth of Nations, the economist Adam Smith explained, "It is not from the benevolence of the butcher, the brewer, or the baker that we expect our dinner, but from their regard to their own self-interest."



Smith believed that when individuals pursued their own best interests, they would be guided toward decisions that benefited others. The baker, for example, wants to earn a living to support his family. To accomplish this, they produce a product—bread—which feeds and nourishes hundreds of people.



A social entrepreneur might also seek to address imbalances in such availability, the root causes behind such social problems, or the social stigma associated with being a resident of such communities. The main goal of a social entrepreneur is not to earn a profit. Rather, a social entrepreneur seeks to implement widespread improvements in society. However, a social entrepreneur must still be financially savvy to succeed in his or her cause.


   Types of Social Entrepreneurs  
  Community Social Entrepreneur  

A community social entrepreneur prioritizes the need of a small geographical region, usually the community it lives in. This type of social entrepreneur is less concerned about the specific nature of their endeavor; the primary purpose of their entrepreneurship is to benefit their local area.



This type of social entrepreneur often builds strong relationships in its community, taking advantage of relationships to leverage how resources flow within its town. Community members, local organizations, and the community social entrepreneur work together to make sure the needs of the community are met and partnerships that make sense are created.


  Non-Profit Social Entrepreneur  

Non-profit social entrepreneurs are the more common type of social entrepreneur where the entity has a broad stated goal that benefits someone but not necessarily their direct community. With the introduction of remote or online social entrepreneurship, it is now easier to create entities with broader mission-driven purposes.



Non-profit social enterprises usually operate very similarly to a business. The primary difference is the net profits of the non-profit enterprise are often returned back to the entity for further develop into programming. Instead of there being investors to make money, a non-profit social entrepreneur strives to spend as much money it can towards its mission.


  Transformational Social Entrepreneur  

As a start-up non-profit social enterprise grows, it often shifts into becoming a transformational social entrepreneur. As local non-profits grow, so can their mission. A transformational social entrepreneur look to scale an operation from a single program to benefitting various areas. For example, consider the broad reach of Goodwill; what started as a small non-profit social enterprise transformed into a much richer, broader entity with many more rules and regulation.


  Global Social Entrepreneur  

Sometimes, social entrepreneur endeavors aren't limited by borders or geography. Sometimes, people may try to solve overarching social concepts such as poverty, depression, or lack of living conditions. Usually, the social entrepreneur may try to solve an issue in a specific region. However, these deep-rooted issues are often not specific to a region. Many of the solutions discovered in one area may be attributable to another.



These types of organizations easily have the greatest reach. For example, consider the breadth of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. Their endeavors to find vaccinations for various diseases impacting those around the world are a clear example of global social enterprises.






Social entrepreneurship continually evolves; what may be a local communal non-profit one year may model into a global social enterprise the next.


   6 P's of Social Entrepreneurial Enterprises  

As social entrepreneurs embark on turning their ideas into successes, they often work through the following six areas. Each of these categories are different resources, roadblocks, or stages a social entrepreneur must often encounter.


  People  

Most social entrepreneurs start their endeavors by identifying what people they want to benefit. Sometimes, this is the people in their specific geographical region. Other times, this is people within a certain demographic (i.e. people with low income). Without a clear definition of who the social entrepreneur wants to serve, they will face difficulty in appropriately defining the scope of their enterprise. This puts the yet-to-be-created entity at risk of not having a clear vision.


  Problem  

Social entrepreneurs try to fix problems. More specifically, social entrepreneurs identify a problem that the people in the previous section face. Usually, during the brainstorm phase of an entity, the social entrepreneur will link the two together. For example, social entrepreneurs may try to defeat homelessness in their region. A social entrepreneur in this situation tries to help certain people (low income individuals) with a problem (lack of available housing).


  Plan  

With the people and problem identified, a social entrepreneur must devise a plan to solve the problem. Social entrepreneurs not only strive to create a business plan to operate an entity, they must also determine how this type of entity will receive funding and remain financially sustainable. The social entrepreneur must also evaluate how external parties can help it achieve its social goals.


  Prioritize  

One of the largest challenges for a social entrepreneur is a lack of available resources to tackle the problem they wish to solve. Whether that means not enough money, not enough specialized knowledge, or external forces that cannot be controlled, social entrepreneurs face many constraints. This means they must prioritize what they try to solve, how they go about operating, and what expansion looks like.


  Prototype  

Because resources are limited, social entrepreneurs often test out solutions in small markets before expanding. This means creating prototype products, services, or processes. It also tests out how different funding and resources can help it achieve its goals. Though this stage may not foster trust in those who have provided an upfront investment with the social entrepreneur, other upfront investors may appreciate seeing a minimum viable product or prototype.


  Pursue  

With the test case down, social entrepreneurs identify what went well and what didn't go well. It often surveys those that helped put the solution together as well as those receiving the benefit. This last step closes the full loop of activity, though a social entrepreneur should periodically evaluate each aspect and continually monitor for ways to better make their social change.


   Social Entrepreneur vs. Other Social Concepts  

Social entrepreneurship is related to socially responsible investing (SRI) and environmental, social, and governance (ESG) investing. SRI is the practice of investing money in companies and funds that have positive social impacts. SRI has also grown in popularity in recent years.



Socially responsible investors will often eschew investments in companies that produce or sell addictive substances (like alcohol, gambling, and tobacco). They may also seek out companies that are engaged in social justice, environmental sustainability, and alternative energy or clean technology efforts.



Socially conscious investors screen potential new investments for environmental, social, and governance (ESG) criteria. This set of standards considers how a company performs as a steward of nature, how it manages relationships with employees, suppliers, customers, and the communities where it operates, and how it treats its company’s leadership, compensates its executives, and approaches audits, internal controls, and shareholder rights.






According to ZipRecruiter, the average annual salary as of January 2023 for a social entrepreneur was just above $53,000 per year.


   Examples of Social Entrepreneurship  

The introduction of freshwater services through the construction of new wells is another example of social entrepreneurship. A social entrepreneur may have the goal of providing access to communities that lack stable utilities of their own.



In the modern era, social entrepreneurship is often combined with technology assets: for example, bringing high-speed internet connectivity to remote communities so that school-age children have more access to information and knowledge resources. Another example are microfinance institutions that provide banking services to unemployed or low-income individuals or groups who otherwise would have no other access to financial services.



The development of mobile apps that speak to the needs of a particular community is another way social entrepreneurship is expressed. This can include giving individuals ways to alert their city administrations to problems such as burst water mains, downed powerlines, or patterns of repeated traffic accidents. There are also apps created to report infractions committed by city officials or even law enforcement that can help give a voice to the community through technology.



Other examples of social entrepreneurship include educational programs, providing banking services in underserved areas, and helping children orphaned by epidemic disease. All of these efforts are intended to address unmet needs within communities that have been overlooked or not granted access to services, products, or base essentials available in more developed communities.




How Do You Become a Social Entrepreneur?
You can become a social entrepreneur by considering who you want to help and what problem you want to solve. Once you have a targeted idea, it's often best to gather resources, understand where your limitations are, and decide what external parties you want to help craft the enterprise.




How Do Social Entrepreneurs Make Money?
Social entrepreneurs raise capital for their enterprises by connecting with other members in the community. "Community" does not necessarily need to mean physical location, as some enterprises may collaborate around the world for a common social cause. A social entrepreneur may collect grants, upfront donations from major donors (in exchange for public recognition), or use personal capital.




Do Social Entrepreneurs Pay Taxes?
It depends. Social entrepreneurs are usually not personally exempt from paying taxes. This means that almost all individuals are taxed on the income they make, regardless of whether or not the enterprise they work for is a social enterprise. On the other hand, most social entrepreneurs incorporate their enterprises as a non-profit entity so their enterprise can operate tax-free.


   The Bottom Line  

Some people craft a business to make a lot of money. Other times, people start an enterprise for social good. The latter type of individual is called a social entrepreneur, and they often start by identifying the people and problem it wants to help. Though there are many similarities between a social venture and a full-for-profit enterprise, the core difference is a social entrepreneur prioritizes the good it creates for its community or recipient base.
What Is Social Justice?  

Social justice refers to a fair and equitable division of resources, opportunities, and privileges in society. Originally a religious concept, it has come to be conceptualized more loosely as the just organization of social institutions that deliver access to economic benefits. It is sometimes referred to as "distributive justice." 



Social justice is a broad term, and there are many variations in how advocates apply the perspective. However, social determinants like the racial wealth gap or inequitable access to health care feature heavily in social justice analysis. Some applications related to social justice, such as critical race theory, have become a battleground for American politics.





Key Takeaways

Social justice refers to the fair division of resources, opportunities, and privileges in society.It emphasizes fairness in how society divides its social resources.One of the most famous examinations of social justice is John Rawls’ A Theory of Justice (1971).Gender inequality, racism, and LGBTQ+ discrimination are frequent subjects of social justice advocacy.Some applications of social justice, like critical race theory, have become embattled in the American culture wars.


   Understanding Social Justice  

The phrase "social justice" draws its roots from Christian theology, with the first noted use occurring in the early 1840s in Theoretical Treatise on Natural Law by Luigi Taparelli. Taparelli was an Italian Jesuit priest writing during the rise of Risorgimento, a 19th-century Italian nationalist movement, and debates around the unification of Italy.



Taparelli’s version of social justice was simply an application of justice to social affairs and held that people should do what’s right based on a conceptualization of morality based on natural theology and religion, and for much of its history social justice has been a religious concept.



Not all notions of social justice emphasized religion, though. With the social impact of the Industrial Revolution, the term grew. Later theorists would focus on social justice as a moral obligation for people within a society to work for the common good; the most famous example is discussed below. 



The term, which has been historically contentious, has become more popular since the end of the 20th century. Some scholars point toward the neoliberal policies of the Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan administrations as a possible reason for this change.





An Old Concept

Though the phrase is attributed to Luigi Taparelli, social justice builds on older concepts. Taparelli relied heavily on the work of Catholic theologian Thomas Aquinas (who was relying on the work of the Macedonian philosopher Aristotle).



One of the most influential explorations of social justice comes from the 20th-century American philosopher John Rawls. In A Theory of Justice (1971), which he labeled as a theory of social justice, Rawls outlined his vision of “justice as fairness.”



For Rawls, this meant that people ought to consider the rules for a fair allotment of social goods within a society as well as the levels of inequality that can be allowed within a society. Rawls famously used the concept of a "veil of ignorance," a pretense of ignorance about where one will end up in any given society that Rawls thought ought to be used to arrange society, as well as the "principle of difference," which holds that social and economic inequalities can be acceptable if they benefit the whole of society.



The basic element of fairness is crucial, especially in the access to social resources, sometimes called “social goods.” While it may sound abstract, how social goods are distributed is immensely impactful. Importantly, the “social determinants” of outcomes are considered central to whether or not a system is just.



In public health, for example, the place of birth can alter what health care options a person has and, therefore, also how long that person lives. To account for this, social justice advocates in healthcare might focus on extending the probability that people will be healthy despite resource inadequacies they may face for historical or economic reasons.


   Main Principles of Social Justice  

While there is no single definition of social justice, most approaches share the broad goals of inclusion and fairness. In order to achieve those goals, they establish a set of ethical principles for a just society.



These principles may include:


  Access  

Equal access to social goods is one of the most fundamental principles of social justice. This holds that society's resources should be equally available to all. For example, many social justice theorists believe that people should have equal access to education, health care, and employment opportunities. Public servants can uphold this principle by ensuring that everyone has access to these resources.


  Equity  

Equity is the principle that people should have the same opportunities to succeed, despite any past injustices or systemic discrimination. This may mean that resources are distributed in a way that addresses the specific needs of underprivileged communities or people.


  Diversity  

Diversity is the principle that government and business leaders should be broadly representative of the communities they serve. This means that not only should there be women and people of color in positions of power, but also that minority communities should be equally represented in public institutions. On a policy level, this principle may entail prohibitions on discrimination or providing resources in multiple languages.


  Participation  

Participation is the principle that everyone in a community should have a voice in making important decisions. In many societies, public policies are set by a small group of powerful people, without consulting the communities they represent. This may have the unintended effect of excluding a large part of the community.



Public policymakers can address this shortcoming by consulting the advocates of minority communities and considering their needs.


  Human Rights  

The final principle of social justice, and arguably the most fundamental, is human rights. In addition to political rights, such as freedom of conscience, it also requires freedom from police abuse and respect for one's reproductive rights and bodily autonomy.


   Careers in Social Justice  

The most common jobs relating to social justice are related to public administration and social work since these occupations deal directly with providing access to social and government resources. People who work in these professions should be conscious of the explicit and implicit biases that may reduce access to these resources for some members of society.



But it is also possible to advocate for social justice in other fields. For example, lawyers can help ensure equitable access to the justice system by representing clients who are traditionally underserved by existing institutions, and lobbyists can push for legislation that addresses community injustices. Other social justice-oriented occupations include mental health workers, victim advocates, and community developers.


   Areas of Focus  

While social justice seeks to ensure equality and fairness for all, it may focus on those groups that have been the victims of historical oppression. The following are some areas of focus for social justice workers:


  Racial Equality  

Racial equality is one of the most common issues in social justice, and many countries have a history of discrimination or oppression of minority ethnic or racial groups. Members of these groups may be at an economic disadvantage or suffer from unequal access to education, health services, or other essential institutions.


  Gender Equality  

Almost every country suffers from some sort of gender inequality, whether in the form of wage gaps, glass ceilings, or other forms of gender-based discrimination. In addition, women are also more likely to suffer from violence or sexual assault. or face threats to reproductive rights. Gender equality also affects other rights, such as racial equality. Many social justice advocates consider this a key aspect of social reform.


  LGBTQ+ Equality  

Starting in the 20th century, LGBTQ+ rights emerged as another issue for social justice advocates. Members of the LGBTQ+ community face high levels of violence and discrimination and may be denied access to healthcare or employment.


   Equity vs. Equality  

Although they are both related to the distribution of social goods and privileges within a society, equality and equity have taken on slightly different meanings in conversations around social justice. Equality, in this context, means that people are given the same access to opportunities, regardless of historical or other forms of injustice that may alter how much someone can access those opportunities. Equity, in contrast, tries to account for an imbalanced social system by providing the resources to create an equal outcome.



It is social justice’s adoption of equity that most of its critics focus on, but those in favor of the concept suggest that equity is a vital part of ensuring a just society. Paula Braveman, a researcher at the University of California, San Francisco, for instance, has commented that “health equity” and social justice in health are interchangeable. The goal of social justice in health care, she implies, “[is that] no one is denied the possibility to be healthy for belonging to a group that has historically been economically/socially disadvantaged.”


   Social Justice in Law  

In law, social justice perspectives have become a touchpoint for the American culture wars. Critical race theory (CRT), an approach to law that actively seeks to account for how racial prejudices affect legal outcomes, has drawn particular outcry.



The term was developed by American legal theorists such as Kimberlé Crenshaw to analyze how racism is advanced by American legal structures, even in some cases in the absence of racist individuals. Central to CRT is the notion that race is not validated by science, and that the law has maintained an unjust order.


  The Critics  

Detractors of critical race theory have claimed that it is merely a way of permitting discrimination. According to the Brookings Institute, a public policy think tank, opponents of critical race theory tend to view the claim that American institutions are racist as a way of accusing White people of being individually racist, rather than as an attempt at broad analysis about the effect of institutions on social outcomes.



Campaigns against CRT have become increasingly vocal in state legislatures across the U.S., with many banning its teaching in primary and secondary schools. To date, 36 states have moved to install legislation to ban teaching about racial bias in the U.S., and 17 have moved to expand that teaching, according to a state legislative tracker created by Chalkbeat, a nonprofit newsroom focused on the American education system.



In 2020, President Donald Trump had also forbidden diversity and equity training from federal contracts, which has been described as an "equity gag order." That executive order conflated diversity training and CRT, calling both "divisive." The ban was reversed in 2021.




What Does Social Justice Mean?
Social justice is the belief that the social benefits and privileges of a society ought to be divided fairly.




Why Is Social Justice Important?
Advocates say that social justice is worth pursuing because it defends people from suffering deprivations due to unfair prejudices and because it tries to provide everyone with the essentials for a good life.




How Is Social Justice Related to Equity?
The concept of equity focuses on outcomes. It’s related to the belief that social determinants massively affect how people’s lives turn out and that, therefore, a truly fair arrangement of society will account for the tangible ways that this harms socially and economically disadvantaged groups.


   The Bottom Line  

Social justice is a political and philosophical movement aiming for a more division of resources and opportunities. By addressing historical injustices and directing resources to underserved communities, social justice advocates hope to establish a more fair and equal society.
What Is Social Media?  

Social media refers to a variety of technologies that facilitate the sharing of ideas and information among their users. From Facebook and Instagram to X platform (formerly Twitter) and YouTube, more than 4.7 billion people use social media, equal to roughly 60% of the world's population. In early 2023, 94.8% of users accessed chat and messaging apps and websites, followed closely by social platforms, with 94.6% of users.





Key Takeaways

Social media is digital technology that allows the sharing of ideas and information, including text and visuals, through virtual networks and communities.Social media typically features user-generated content that lends itself to engagement via likes, shares, comments, and discussion.More than 4.7 billion people around the world use social media.Social media is credited with helping people build community and faulted for facilitating disinformation and hate speech.Social media is also an increasingly important part of many companies' marketing campaigns.The largest social media platforms worldwide are Facebook, YouTube, WhatsApp, Instagram, and WeChat.


   How Social Media Originated and Evolved  

Social media started out as a way for people to interact with friends and family but soon expanded to serve many different purposes. In 2004, MySpace was the first network to reach 1 million monthly active users.



Social media participation exploded in the years that followed with the entry of Facebook and Twitter (now X platform). Businesses gravitated toward these platforms in order to reach an audience instantly on a global scale.



According to Global Web Index, 46% of internet users worldwide get their news through social media. That compares to 40% of users who view news on news websites. Gen Z and Millennials were most likely to view news on social sites versus other generations.



Social media plays a key role in many businesses' marketing strategies, not surprising given the sheer number of hours people spend each day on social websites and apps. At the same time, social media is an ever-changing field, with relatively recent apps such as TikTok, Signal, and Clubhouse joining the ranks of established social networks like Facebook, YouTube, X platform, and Instagram.


   What Social Media Is Used for Today  

Social media platforms are often divided into six categories: social networking, social bookmarking, social news, media sharing, microblogging, and online forums.



These diverse platforms serve a vast range of purposes and user interests. Some appeal to hobbyists, others to people in their work lives. People use them to find others across the globe who share their political or other views. Entertainers use social media to engage with fans, politicians with voters, charities with donors. Governments often turn to social media to convey vital information during emergencies.



For businesses, social media has become a key marketing tool. Companies use it to find and engage with customers, drive sales through advertising and promotion, identify fast-moving consumer trends, provide customer service or support, and collect data on users, sometimes surreptitiously.





94.6%

Percentage of internet users age 16 to 64 who visited a social networking site in the past month.


   Pros and Cons of Social Media  

Social media platforms allow people to access information in real time, to connect with others, and to find niche communities. At its best, it makes the world more interconnected.



On the other hand, social media is also very good at spreading disinformation, creating polarization, and even causing harmful psychological effects.



Still, according to a 2019 survey by Pew Research Center, people's use of social media is correlated with having more friends and more diverse personal networks, especially within emerging economies. Some 80% of teenagers say social media allows them to feel more connected to their peers, according to a 2022 Pew Research Center survey of U.S. teens ages 13 to 17. Overall, one in three said that social media has had a mostly positive effect on them, while 59% said it had neither a positive nor a negative effect.



At the same time, many teens' use, and overuse, of social media has raised questions about its effect on their physical and mental health by "distracting them, disrupting their sleep, and exposing them to bullying, rumor spreading, unrealistic views of other people's lives, and peer pressure," as the Mayo Clinic notes.



Businesses, meanwhile, have found social media to be an often effective and relatively inexpensive way to reach consumers and build an image for their brands. According to Facebook, more than 200 million small businesses use its service for various purposes. Separately, close to 90% of marketers say they use Facebook for promotion. 



In 2022, social media and search advertising spending made up roughly 55% of overall ad spending globally. It is also the fastest-growing category across advertising channels.


   The Top 10 Social Media Platforms Worldwide  

These were the most widely used social media providers as of January 2023, according to DataReportal:



Facebook (2.96 billion users)YouTube (2.51 billion users)WhatsApp (2 billion users)Instagram (2 billion users)WeChat (1.31 billion users)TikTok (1.05 billion users)Facebook Messenger (931 million users)Douyin (715 million users)Telegram (700 million users)Snapchat (635 million users)



Interestingly, two that are especially well-known in the U.S.—X platform and Pinterest—didn't make the top 10 list globally. X platform was 14th, with 556 million users worldwide, while Pinterest was 15th with 445 million.




What Is the Most Popular Social Media?
Globally, the most popular social media site is Facebook, with close to 3 billion users, according to one recent estimate.




How Much Time Do People Spend on Social Media?
Internet users age 16 to 64 worldwide spent a daily average of 2 hours and 31 minutes on social media as of late 2022, according to DataReportal, which adds that "social media now accounts for its greatest ever share of total online time, with almost four in every 10 minutes spent online now attributable to social media activities."




What Is Social Media Marketing?
Social media marketing is the use of social networks as a sales and marketing tool. Companies with products or services to promote can go beyond traditional advertising to build an online presence and engage directly with their customers.In particular, social media marketing has opened up opportunities for local businesses to reach out to potential customers without spending a fortune on ad placement.


   The Bottom Line  

For better or worse, social media has reshaped our lives, capturing more than 4.7 billion users worldwide and counting. From a business perspective, it has also revolutionized commerce and seems likely to continue to do so.
What Is Social Networking?  

Social networking refers to using internet-based social media sites to stay connected with friends, family, colleagues, or customers. Social networking can have a social purpose, a business purpose, or both through sites like Facebook, X (formerly Twitter), Instagram, and Pinterest.



Social networking is also a significant opportunity for marketers seeking to engage customers. Facebook remains the largest and most popular social network, with 2 billion people using the platform daily, as of Feb 1, 2023. Other popular platforms in the U.S. are Instagram, X, WhatsApp, TikTok, and Pinterest.





Key Takeaways

Social networking uses internet-based social media platforms to connect with friends, family, or peers.Some of the most popular social networking sites in the U.S. include Facebook, Instagram, TikTok, WhatsApp, and X.Marketers use social networking to increase brand recognition and encourage brand loyalty.Social media can help connect people with businesses for various needs.There are disadvantages related to social media, including spreading misinformation, concerns posed by user anonymity, and the high cost of using and maintaining social network profiles.


   How Social Networking Works  

Social networking involves the development and maintenance of personal and business relationships using technology. This is done through the use of social networking sites, such as Facebook, Instagram, and X.



These sites allow people and corporations to connect with one another so they can develop relationships and share information, ideas, and messages.


  For Family and Friends  

Family members and friends can reconnect and remain connected through personal social networking sites like Facebook. They can share photos and status updates on everyday or important life events. People can also connect with unknown individuals who share the same interests, goals, or experiences. Individuals can find each other through groups, lists, and hashtags—an indexing function that groups topics.


  For Marketers  

Marketers commonly use social networking to increase brand recognition and encourage brand loyalty. Social media marketing helps promote a brand’s voice and content. It can help make a company more accessible and prominent to new and existing customers.



For example, a frequent X user may learn about a company for the first time through a news feed and decide to buy a product or service. The more exposed people are to a company’s brand, the greater the company's chances of finding and retaining new customers.



Marketers use social networking to improve conversion rates. Building a following provides access to and interaction with new, recent, and longtime customers. Sharing blog posts, images, videos, or comments on social media allows followers to react and engage, visit a company’s website, and become customers.


   Major Social Networking Platforms  
  Facebook  

Facebook is a social network that allows users to connect with people, businesses, and organizations. They can post updates and respond to the posts of others. They can share photographs and links to online content. Users can chat live and upload and share videos.



Users can also communicate directly with each other via Facebook Messenger. They can join groups with similar interests and be notified of friends' activities and pages they elect to follow.



Facebook was designed to be open and social. However, while the platform encourages publicly available content, it also has privacy controls that can restrict access to, for instance, friends.



Facebook was created in 2004 by Mark Zuckerberg while he went to Harvard University. Today, it is owned by Meta Platforms (of which Zuckerberg is CEO). Facebook is the world's largest social network, with about 2 billion daily active users.


  Instagram  

Instagram is a social network that focuses on sharing visual media like photos and videos. It's similar to Facebook in that users create a profile and have a news feed. It allows them to upload media that can be edited with filters and organized by hashtags and geographical tagging. Posts can be shared publicly or with followers.



Users can browse other users' content, view trending content, and follow others. Additionally, they can add the content others upload to their personal feed. Over time, Instagram has added new features, such as Instagram Stories, Instagram Reels, and access to shopping.






Like Facebook, Instagram encourages users to keep their content publicly accessible and lets them set access to approved followers only.



Instagram has its own direct messaging feature. In addition, Facebook Messenger has been incorporated by Instagram so users can direct message Facebook contacts while on Instagram.



Instagram was founded in 2010 by Kevin Systrom and Mike Krieger. In 2012, it was acquired by Meta (formerly Facebook). Instagram boasts 6.18 billion visits per month.


  X  

X is a social network that allows people to communicate with short messages called tweets. The social platform limits tweets to 280 characters. Users publish posts (formely "tweets") that may be useful, interesting, or even inflammatory for readers.






Many people use X to find people and companies posting appealing, important, or newsworthy content and follow them to receive their stream of tweets for updates.



Posting (or "tweeting") is sometimes referred to as microblogging. It's distinguished by users' ability to scan and distribute content quickly, conveniently, and efficiently. This may account for its popularity with those who want (or need) to get lots of messages out to the world and those who want to follow these social or newsy types.



X is used by professional and citizen journalists, politicians, celebrities, marketers, and more. It was founded as Twitter in 2006 by Jack Dorsey, Noah Glass, Biz Stone, and Evan Williams, and was bought by Elon Musk in Oct. 2022. He changed the name to "X" in July 2023. It is now owned by X Corp., one of Elon Musk's holding companies.


  Pinterest  

Pinterest is a social networking site that promotes image saving and sharing using a virtual pinboard. It's an innovative platform that facilitates cataloging and organizing meaningful information for individuals.



With Pinterest, account holders find images by browsing the web or Pinterest itself. They then pin (or save) those images to an online pinboard. Multiple pinboards can be set up and organized based on a topic.



Once they've created and built their boards to catalog ideas and interests, users can access them whenever they want. Clicking on the image reveals related information.






Like other social networks, Pinterest users have a feed that exhibits images according to their interests. They can interact by "liking" images, following each other, and posting comments. There's also a feature that provides private messaging.



Pinterest was created by Ben Silbermann, Paul Sciarra, and Evan Sharp in 2009. Pinterest, Inc. owns it, and its CEO is Bill Ready. Pinterest reported approximately 450 million monthly active users globally for 2022.


   Special Considerations  

There isn't a one-size-fits-all approach to social networking marketing strategies. That's because every business is unique and has a different target demographic, history, and competitive marketplace.



Social networking companies want businesses to pay for their advertising. That's why platforms often restrict a business's reach and the number of responses it may receive through unpaid posts. For example, if a company has 500 followers, followers may not all receive the same post.






The constantly evolving nature of social networking makes it challenging to keep up with changes and influences a company’s marketing success rate.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Social Networking  

Social networking can affect individuals and corporations positively and negatively. That's why it's important to weigh the advantages and disadvantages of using these social media sites before getting too heavily involved.


  Advantages  

Social networking allows individuals to make and stay in contact with family and friends that distance and lost connections would otherwise prohibit.
People can also connect with unknown individuals who share the same interests and develop new relationships.
Social networking also allows companies to connect with new and existing clients.
Companies can create, promote, and increase brand awareness through social media.
Companies can capitalize on customer reviews and comments promoting products, services, and brands. The more customers post about a company, the more valuable the brand authority can become. This can lead to greater sales and a higher ranking by search engines.
Social networking can help establish a brand as legitimate, credible, and trustworthy.
Companies may use social networking to demonstrate the quality of their customer service and enrich their relationships with consumers. For example, if a customer complains about a product or service on X, the company may address the issue immediately, apologize, and take action to make it right.


  Disadvantages  

Social networking can facilitate the spread of misinformation about individuals and companies.
Due to its online nature, falsehoods can spread like wildfire. This became increasingly prevalent after 2012. One study found that misinformation is 70% more likely than factual information to be shared on X.
The detrimental impact of misinformation can create a virtual headache for a company's public relations (PR) department.
The anonymous aspect of newfound personal relationships requires caution.
Building and maintaining a company profile takes hours each week. Costs add up quickly.
Businesses need many followers before a social media marketing campaign starts generating a positive return on investment (ROI). For example, submitting a post to 15 followers does not have the same effect as submitting the post to 15,000 followers.





Pros

Allows people to connect with others, including friends and family
Companies can reach new and existing clients as well as build and strengthen their brand
Corporations can demonstrate their customer service excellence



Cons

Helps spread misinformation
Complaints about companies can spread and create public relations issues
Costs to advertise and develop corporate profiles can be high
User anonymity can require caution





   Examples of Social Networking  

Almost every product or service you use is backed by a company with a social media presence. It's virtually impossible to think of any major corporation that doesn't operate, market, and advertise on social networks.



Tapping into social media is not only a good business practice, it's necessary if you're going to succeed in the corporate world. Here are two examples of companies that are doing it right.


  Taco Bell  

Popular fast-food chain Taco Bell has more than 1.5 million followers on Instagram and nearly 2 million followers on X. The company knows how to engage people on social media, posting content about its menu offerings, employees, and restaurants. Taco Bell also posts light-hearted tweets and Instagram posts that garner thousands of replies, retweets, and likes.



Taco Bell lobbied for a taco emoji by creating a petition on Change.org in 2014. The company spread the word on social media. The petition garnered 33,000 signatures from Taco Bell enthusiasts. Apple released the taco emoji in October 2015 when it released iOS 9.1.


  Kylie Jenner  

You don't have to be a corporation to use social media expertly. This is, after all, the age of the influencer. For example, Kylie Jenner has more than 387 million followers on Instagram, 36 million on Snapchat, and 40 million on X.



The young influencer and reality television star uses social media platforms to boost her image and brand name. She is also an entrepreneur who uses social networking to promote her business, Kylie Cosmetics.



The beauty brand earned her a spot on Forbes' list of self-made women, young billionaires, and the Celebrity 100 of 2020. Want proof of her reach? The company's lip kits sold out within 10 minutes of the star tweeting the link to her followers in February 2016.




What Is the Purpose of Social Networking?
Social networking connects individuals and businesses by allowing them to share information, ideas, and messages. Companies also use social networks to create and strengthen brand recognition, promote products and services, and answer customer queries and concerns.




What Are the Benefits of Social Networks?
The benefits of social networks include their ability to help people connect and stay in touch with family, friends, and new contacts; the opportunity they offer businesses to market their brands; their ability to spread useful, even vital, information instantly to individuals and institutions.




Why Are Social Networks Important?
Social networks are important because they allow people to develop relationships that might not be possible due to distances of place and time. They also help boost business productivity when used for public relations, marketing, and advertising purposes.




What Are the Top 10 Social Networking Sites?
Some top social networking sites are Facebook, X, YouTube, WhatsApp, Instagram, WeChat, TikTok, Facebook Messenger, Douyin, QQ, and Sina Weibo.


   The Bottom Line  

Social networking involves using online social media platforms to connect with new and existing friends, family, colleagues, and businesses. Individuals can use social networking to announce and discuss their interests and concerns with others who may support or interact with them.



Businesses can use social networking to build a brand, sell products, grow a customer base, and strengthen customer relationships and service.



Social networking may have certain disadvantages, but its benefits—including giving individuals and companies a method to spread messages instantly—make it a technology that will continue to be used and developed for years to come.
What Is Social Responsibility?  

Social responsibility means that businesses, in addition to maximizing shareholder value, must act in a manner benefiting society, not just the bottom line. Social responsibility has become increasingly important to investors and consumers who seek investments that not only are profitable but also contribute to the welfare of society and the environment. While critics have traditionally argued that the basic nature of business does not consider society as a stakeholder, younger generations are embracing social responsibility and driving change.





Key Takeaways

Social responsibility means that besides maximizing shareholder value, businesses should operate in a way that benefits society.Socially responsible companies should adopt policies that promote the well-being of society and the environment while lessening negative impacts on them.Companies can act responsibly in many ways, such as by promoting volunteering, making changes that benefit the environment, engaging in ethical labor practices, and engaging in charitable giving.Consumers are more actively looking to buy goods and services from socially responsible companies, hence impacting their profitability.Critics assert that practicing social responsibility is the opposite of why businesses exist.












Michela Buttignol / Investopedia


   Understanding Social Responsibility  

Social responsibility means that individuals and companies must act in the best interests of their environment and society as a whole. As it applies to business, social responsibility is known as corporate social responsibility (CSR) and is becoming a more prominent area of focus within businesses due to shifting social norms.



The crux of this theory is to enact policies that promote an ethical balance between the dual mandates of striving for profitability and benefiting society as a whole. These policies can be either commission (philanthropy: donations of money, time, or resources) or omission (e.g., “go green” initiatives such as reducing greenhouse gases or abiding by U.S. Environmental Protection Agency regulations to limit pollution).



Many companies, such as those with “green” policies, have made social responsibility an integral part of their business models, and they have done so without compromising profitability.



Additionally, more consciously capitalistic investors and consumers are factoring in a company’s commitment to socially responsible practices before making an investment or purchase. As such, embracing social responsibility can benefit the prime directive: maximization of shareholder value.



There is a moral imperative as well. Actions—or the lack thereof—will affect future generations. Put simply, social responsibility is just good business practice, and a failure to do so can have a deleterious effect on the balance sheet.



Social responsibility can also boost company morale, especially when a company can engage employees with its social causes.






In general, social responsibility is more effective when a company takes it on voluntarily instead of waiting for the government to require them to do so through regulation.






   What Are the 4 Types of Social Responsibility?  

The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) emphasizes that a business’s ability to maintain a balance between pursuing economic performance and adhering to societal and environmental issues is a critical factor in operating efficiently and effectively. 



The key ways that a company embraces social responsibility include philanthropy, promoting volunteering, ethical labor practices, and environmental changes.



For example, companies managing their environmental impact might look to reduce their carbon footprint and limit waste. There’s also the social responsibility of ethical practices for employees, which can mean offering a fair wage, which arises when there are limited employee protection laws.


   Examples of Socially Responsible Corporations  

Social responsibility takes on different meanings within industries and companies. For example:



Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) committed to social responsibility from the start, including sustainability and community welfare. It purchases Fair Trade Certified ingredients to manufacture products and actively supports sustainable farming in the regions where ingredients are sourced.
Ben & Jerry’s Homemade Holdings Inc. has integrated social responsibility into the core of its operations. Like Starbucks, the company purchases Fair Trade Certified ingredients.
The Lego Group, manufacturer of Lego toys, has committed to reducing its carbon impact. It was named a World Wildlife Fund Climate Savers Partner in 2014.
Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) developed what it calls the 1-1-1 model. The company dedicates 1% of its equity, 1% of its product, and 1% of employees’ time back to the community.
Big-box retailer Target Corp. (TGT), also well known for its social responsibility programs, has donated money to communities in which the stores operate, including education grants.


   Criticism of Corporate Social Responsibility  

Not everyone believes that businesses should have a social conscience. Economist Milton Friedman stated that “‘social responsibilities of business’ are notable for their analytical looseness and lack of rigor.” Friedman believed that only individuals can have a sense of social responsibility. Businesses, by their very nature, cannot. Some experts believe that social responsibility defies the very point of being in business: profit above all else.



However, social responsibility has become more mainstream and is now practiced among a wide range of companies. Younger generations, such as millennials and Gen Z, are embracing social responsibility and driving change in the workplace and as consumers.




What are examples of social responsibility?
Social responsibility includes companies engaging in environmental preservation efforts, ethical labor practices, philanthropy, and promoting volunteering. For example, a company may change its manufacturing process to reduce carbon emissions.




What are the main benefits of social responsibility?
Benefiting society and lessening the negative impacts on the environment are among the main benefits of social responsibility. Consumers are increasingly looking to buy goods and services from socially responsible companies, which can have a positive impact on their bottom line.




How does social responsibility benefit companies?
In addition to potentially increasing the bottom line, companies that implement social responsibility programs can also boost their brand image. Social responsibility programs can also have a positive impact on morale among employees.


   The Bottom Line  

Social responsibility benefits society and the environment while lessening negative impacts on them. Companies engaging in social responsibility can do so in a number of ways, including making changes that benefit the environment, engaging in ethical labor practices, and promoting volunteering, and philanthropy. Consumers are more actively looking to do business with socially responsible companies, which can also benefit bottom lines.
What Is Social Science?  

Social science is the study of how people interact with one another. The branches of social science include anthropology, economics, political science, psychology, and sociology.



Social scientists study how societies work, exploring everything from the triggers of economic growth and the causes of unemployment to what makes people happy. Their findings inform public policies, education programs, urban design, marketing strategies, and many other endeavors.





Key Takeaways

Social science is a group of academic disciplines that focus on how individuals behave within society.It attempts to explain how society works, exploring everything from the triggers of economic growth and causes of unemployment to what makes people happy.Social science is a relatively new field of scientific study that rose to prominence in the 20th century.Typical careers in social science include working as an advertiser, economist, psychologist, teacher, manager, and social worker.Social scientists generally rely more heavily on interpretation and qualitative research methodologies.


   Understanding Social Science  

Social science as a field of study is separate from the natural sciences, which cover topics such as physics, biology, and chemistry. Social science examines the relationships between individuals and societies as well as the development and operation of societies, rather than studying the physical world. These academic disciplines rely more heavily on interpretation and qualitative research methodologies.


   Branches of Social Science  

Some say there are seven social sciences, while others claim there are four, five, six, or something else. Opinions vary on what should be included, yet most pundits agree that the following five fields definitely fall into this category:



AnthropologyEconomicsPolitical scienceSociologySocial psychology



History is also sometimes regarded as a branch of social science, although many historians often consider the subject to share closer links to the humanities. Both humanities and social science study human beings. What separates them is the technique applied: Humanities are viewed as more philosophical and less scientific.



Law, too, has some ties to social science, as does geography.






There are many fields within social science. The five main ones are anthropology, economics, political science, psychology, and sociology, although some people also include history, criminology, and geography in this conversation.


   Social Science in Schools  

In the United States, early education in social science begins in elementary school and progresses throughout middle and high school, with an emphasis on aspects of core social sciences such as economics and political science. At the collegiate level, more specialized disciplines are offered.



Nowadays, colleges and universities offer numerous social science programs. For example, the University of California, Berkeley has 15 academic departments categorized as social sciences. They are:



African American studiesAnthropologyCognitive scienceDemographyEconomicsEthnic studiesGender and women’s studiesGeographyGlobal studiesHistoryLinguisticsPolitical economyPolitical sciencePsychologySociology



Master’s degree and Ph.D. programs at colleges and universities offer further opportunities for deeper specialization.


   Social Science Careers  

Typical careers in social science include working as an advertiser, psychologist, teacher, lawyer, manager, social worker, and economist.



The subject matter of social science—human behavior, relationships, attitudes, and how these things have changed over time—is useful information for any successful business to possess. The concepts of social science, such as demography, political science, and sociology, are frequently applied in many different business contexts. For example, advertising and marketing professionals often use theories of human behavior from these fields to more efficiently market their products to consumers.



Naturally, the social studies field of economics is key to the business sector. Many industries use economic analysis and quantitative methods to study and forecast business, sales, and other market trends. In fact, economists are one of the most sought-after workers in the U.S., especially behavioral economists, who use psychology to analyze and predict the economic decision-making processes of individuals and institutions.



According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), the projected change in employment for economists from 2021 to 2031 is 6%, about the same as the average 8% projection for all occupations. Social workers, too, are expected to reach a similar level of demand, with the BLS predicting employment in this particular field to grow by 9% from 2021 to 2031.






Economists and social workers are among the most sought-after employees in the U.S., according to the BLS.


  Social Science Wages  

The BLS also reports that those with a social science degree generally command higher salaries than their peers. According to its research, the median wage for a social science graduate in 2019 was $64,000, which is slightly higher than the $60,000 average.



Obviously, salaries vary a lot, with some social science jobs paying much more than others. For example, in 2021, the median pay for an economist was $105,630, whereas a social worker earned $50,390.


   History of Social Science  

The origins of social science can be traced back to the ancient Greeks. The lives they led, as well as their early studies into human nature, the state, and mortality, helped to shape Western civilization.



Social science as an academic field of study developed out of the Age of Enlightenment (or the Age of Reason), which flourished through much of the 18th century in Europe. Adam Smith, Voltaire, Jean-Jacques Rousseau, Denis Diderot, Immanuel Kant, and David Hume were among the major intellectuals at the time who laid the foundations for the study of social science in the Western world.



Individuals began to take a more disciplined approach to quantifying their observations of society. Over time, similar aspects of society, such as linguistics and psychology, were separated into unique fields of study. Here’s more on the five key branches.


  Anthropology  

Anthropology, the study of the origin and development of human societies and cultures, has been a focal point for centuries but really got off the ground and gained importance during the Age of Enlightenment. During that period, there was a big focus on advancing society and knowledge, and the key to achieving that goal was understanding human behavior.


  Economics  

The history of economic thought goes back all the way to ancient Greek philosophers such as Plato, Aristotle, and Xenophon. Their works laid the foundation of nearly all social science, economics included. As travel became easier in the 15th to 18th centuries, and more nations were able to partake in international trade, the economic system of mercantilism grew. The economic actions of many nations were suddenly motivated by the belief that a country should maximize exports and minimize imports.



This predominating school of thought was challenged by writers such as Smith, commonly known as the father of modern economics. Smith’s ideas, along with those of Rousseau and John Locke, promoted the idea of a self-regulating economy and introduced the concept of what is known today as classical economics. Smith’s book The Wealth of Nations is still studied today and admired by many politicians.



Two other important economists who have shaped the way we think of the subject today are Karl Marx and John Maynard Keynes. Marx famously challenged capitalism as an appropriate economic model by placing an emphasis on the labor theory of value. While Marx’s ideas are by no means widely endorsed by most of today’s politicians, his critique of capitalism has had a huge impact on many thinkers.



The Keynesian school of economics, meanwhile, is very popular among today’s economists. Keynesian economics is considered a demand side macroeconomic theory that focuses on changes in the economy over the short run and was the first to separate the study of economic behavior and markets based on individual incentives from the study of broad national economic aggregate variables and constructs.


  Political Science  

The origins of political science can be traced back to ancient Greece. Back then, the philosopher Plato wrote various dialogues about politics, justice, and what constitutes good government.



Plato’s early contributions would gradually take on a more scientific approach, led by thinkers including Aristotle, Thomas Hobbes, Marx, and Max Weber. Centuries of research into politics helped to boost democracy and assist politicians to make popular policy choices and get voted into power.


  Psychology  

Psychology is one of the fastest-growing fields of social science. It began as a medical field of study in the late 1800s and grew popular in the Western world throughout the 20th century, thanks in part to the work of Sigmund Freud.



According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), in 2019, 20.3% of adults had received some form of mental health treatment. Although many still use psychiatric medicine to treat their mental health issues, more people in recent years are seeking alternative treatments, such as mindfulness and yoga in addition to traditional talk therapy.



Neuroscience, drug treatments, and a growing variety of approaches to psychotherapy are adding to the options for psychological treatment. Research on animal learning, social psychology, and economic psychology are other branches of the field.


  Sociology  

Sociology as a science developed in Europe in the mid-1800s, a period of rapid social change. Political revolutions and the Industrial Revolution drastically altered how many people live—and not always for the better—prompting early sociologists to wonder how to maintain stability when everything is shifting so fast.



By 1875, the first sociology course in the U.S. was taught at Yale University. In the years that followed, other colleges followed suit, and in 1911, the subject arrived in high schools.




What Are the 5 Major Branches of Social Science?
The five major branches of social science are anthropology, economics, political science, psychology, and sociology. Some people also consider history, law, and geography to be core social sciences.




Why Is Social Science Important?
The social sciences are important because they help people understand how to analyze not only their own behavior but also the behavior and motivations of their peers. The social sciences also give us a better understanding of how to create more inclusive and effective institutions.




How Do You Become a Social Scientist?
Typically, the path to obtaining a career in the social sciences begins by getting a four-year university degree in one of the social science subjects. If you’re interested in pursuing a career in social work or psychology, these careers often require additional schooling, certificates, and licenses.




Which Jobs Can You Get With a Social Science Degree?
A degree in the social sciences can help land you a job as an economist, psychologist, or survey researcher, as well as open up opportunities in sectors such as law, government, and academia.


   The Bottom Line  

Social science helps us to gain knowledge of our peers and the society in which we live. Human behavior is important, and having a decent grasp of it should, in theory, lead to greater efficiency and quality of life for everyone.
What Is Social Security?  

“Social Security” is the term used for the Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI) program in the United States. It's run by the Social Security Administration (SSA), a federal agency. It's best known for retirement benefits, but it also provides survivor benefits and income for workers who become disabled.



Almost 67 million Americans will collect benefits in 2023. Let’s look at how Social Security works and how much money you can expect to receive from this program.





Key Takeaways

Social Security is a federal program in the U.S. that provides retirement benefits and disability income to qualified people and their spouses, children, and survivors.Workers must be at least 62 years old and have paid into the system for 10 years or more to qualify for Social Security retirement benefits.Workers who wait to collect Social Security until age 70 will receive higher monthly benefits.The amount of those benefits is calculated based on your average indexed monthly earnings (AIME) during your 35 highest-earning years so it varies from person to person.People who can’t work due to a disability and surviving spouses and children may also be eligible for benefits if they meet certain requirements.


   How Social Security Works  

Social Security is an insurance program. Workers pay into the program, typically through payroll withholding where they work. Self-employed workers pay Social Security taxes when they file their federal tax returns.



Workers can earn up to four credits each year. For every $1,510 earned in 2022, one credit was granted up to $6,040, or four credits had been achieved. It's $1,640 up to $6,560 in 2023.



That money goes into two Social Security trust funds: the Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund (OASI) for retirees and the Disability Insurance Trust Fund (DI) for disability beneficiaries. These two funds are used to pay benefits to people who are currently eligible for them. The money that is not spent remains in the trust funds.



A board of trustees oversees the financial operation of the two Social Security trust funds. Four of the six members are the secretaries of the Departments of Treasury, Labor, and Health and Human Services, and the Commissioner of Social Security. The remaining two members are public representatives appointed by the president and confirmed by the Senate.



Medicare is the federal health insurance program for Americans who are age 65 and older and some people who are receiving Medicare benefits due to a disability. It is also supported through payroll withholding. That money goes into a third trust fund, which is managed by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS).



Social Security provides benefits to retirees, their survivors, and workers who become disabled.






Spouses and ex-spouses may also be eligible for benefits based on the earnings record of their partner or former partner.


   Who Can Get Retirement Benefits?  

Workers who have paid into the Social Security system for at least 10 years become eligible for early retirement benefits at age 62. Waiting until your full retirement age (FRA), between ages 66 and 67 (depending on when you were born), results in higher monthly benefits. You'll receive even more if you delay collecting retirement benefits to age 70, but benefits don’t continue to increase if you wait longer than that.



Spouses can also claim benefits based on either their own earnings records or their spouses' records. A divorced spouse who is not currently married can receive benefits based on an ex-spouse’s earnings record if the marriage lasted at least 10 years. Children of retirees can also receive benefits until they turn 18, or longer if the child is disabled or a student. The cutoff is age 16 if you're caring for a child who is not your own.


  How Much Can I Get in Social Security Benefits?  

How much you can get as your Social Security retirement benefit depends on your average indexed monthly earnings (AIME) during your 35 highest-earning years, so amounts will differ significantly among retirees. The average monthly benefit in 2023 is $1,825 or $21,900 annually.



For those with retirement ages of 66 to 67, your annual amount increases by 8% for each year that you delay collecting benefits, starting with the year after you reach your full retirement age and stopping at age 70. So, for example, those who started taking Social Security when they reached the FRA of 66 (in 2020) received 100% of their primary insurance amount (PIA). If they delayed benefits until the following year, they received 108% of their PIA. By delaying until age 70, they would receive 132%.



So, the benefit varies depending upon when you begin taking it. The maximum monthly benefit for people aged 62 is $2,572 ($30,864 annually) in 2023. It's $4,555 ($54,660 annually) for people aged 70. There's also a yearly cost-of-living adjustment made to Social Security benefits, to keep pace with inflation. It is 8.7% for 2023.



Social Security provides a special minimum benefit for long-term low earners that was first enacted in 1972. You must have income for at least 11 years to qualify for it. The special monthly minimum benefit was $45.50 ($546 annually) in 2022. It increases for each additional year of low-income work, topping out at $950.80 ($11,409.60) for people who have worked for 30 years. The special monthly minimum benefit is $49.40 ($592.80 annually) in 2023, topping out at $1,033.50 ($12,402) for people who have worked for 30 years.






Workers can get a projection of their benefits at different retirement ages by using a calculator that's provided on the Social Security Administration website.


   Who Can Get Disability Benefits?  

People who can’t work due to a physical or mental disability that is expected to last for a year or more or result in death may be eligible for Social Security disability benefits (SSDI). You generally have to meet certain earnings tests to qualify. Family members of disabled workers can also be eligible.


  How Much Can I Get in Disability Benefits?  

A little under nine million Americans were collecting SSDI as of December 2022. The average monthly benefit was $1,340.86 ($16,090.32 annually). For disabled workers, the monthly average was $1,483.10 ($17,797.20 annually). Spouses of disabled workers received an average of $408.42 monthly ($4,901.04 annually), and children of disabled workers got $470.77 monthly ($5,649.24 annually).


   Who Can Get Survivor Benefits?  

The spouse and children of a deceased worker may be eligible for survivor benefits based on the worker’s earnings record. That includes surviving spouses who are 60 or older, or 50 or older and disabled. A surviving spouse who is caring for a child who is younger than 16 or disabled may be eligible for these benefits, too.



Children must generally be younger than 18 or disabled to receive benefits. A stepchild, a grandchild, a step-grandchild, or an adopted child may also qualify for benefits under certain circumstances.



Parents aged 62 or older who were dependent upon a deceased worker for at least half of their income may also be able to collect benefits. Surviving spouses and minor children are also entitled to a one-time payment of $255 after an eligible worker’s death in some circumstances.


  How Much Can I Get in Survivor Benefits?  

Approximately 5.68 million people were collecting survivor benefits as of December 2022. The average monthly benefit was $1,447.08 or $17,364.96 annually. Survivor benefits break down into five categories. Average payments in 2022 were:



Children of deceased workers: $1,067.36 monthly ($12,808.32 annually)Widowed mothers and fathers: $1,231.86 monthly ($14,782.32 annually)Nondisabled widow(er)s: $1,705.27 monthly ($20,463.24 annually)Disabled widow(er)s: $892.87 monthly ($10,714.44 annually)Parents of deceased workers: $1,537.98 monthly ($18,455.76 annually)


   The History of Social Security  

The Social Security system in the U.S. came into existence on Aug. 14, 1935 when President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed the Social Security Act into law. The first monthly benefits checks became payable on Jan. 1, 1940. Ida M. Fuller, a retired legal secretary in Vermont, was the first person to collect one. Her check was for $22.54.



The system and its rules have evolved since 1935. Social Security is one of the largest government programs in the world as of 2023, paying out hundreds of billions of dollars each year.





179 million

The number of people who paid Social Security taxes in 2021.


   The Future of Social Security  

Some observers have raised concerns about the aging of the U.S. population and the viability of a system in which fewer active workers will be supporting a greater number of retirees and increases in the cost of living.



The Social Security Board of Trustees forecasts in its 2023 report that reserves in the retirement fund (OASI Trust Fund) will become depleted in 2033, one year earlier than was projected in 2022. Ongoing tax revenue will be enough to pay 77% of scheduled benefits after that point.



The trustees also projected that reserves of the Hospital Insurance (HI) Trust Fund, which finances Medicare Part A, will be depleted in 2031, three years later than projected in 2022. The program income will be able to cover 89% of scheduled benefits after that.



Congress will have to find ways to fill the gap if those predictions hold. This might mean higher taxes on workers, lower benefits, higher age requirements for retirees, or some combination of these elements.




What Benefits Does Social Security Provide?
Social Security provides benefits (monthly payments) for qualified retirees, disabled people, and their spouses, children, and survivors. The benefit amount is based on several factors, including your earnings history.




What Is the Difference Between Social Security and Supplemental Security Income (SSI)?
Supplemental Security Income (SSI) is a separate program from Social Security. It provides monthly cash distributions to elderly or disabled people with little to no income to help them meet their basic needs. You can be eligible for both Social Security benefits and SSI.




What Is Full Retirement Age (FRA)?
Full retirement age (FRA) is the age you must reach to be eligible to receive full retirement benefits from Social Security. Your FRA varies depending on when you were born. It's 66 years and two months for those born in 1955 and it gradually increases to age 67 for those born in 1960 and after.


   The Bottom Line  

The enactment of Social Security in 1935 was one of the signature achievements of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt’s administration. The program remains a cornerstone of most Americans’ retirement, serving nearly 71 million people. Benefit amounts vary depending on income and years of employment. Surviving spouses, children, parents, and disabled workers and their family members may also be eligible to collect benefits in addition to retired workers.



The average retired worker's benefit amounts to over $20,000 annually, so the program shouldn’t be relied on as your sole source of retirement income. It’s important to supplement it with other sources of retirement funding. These options include individual retirement accounts (IRAs), employer-sponsored plans such as a 401(k) or 403(b), and other savings and investments.



Correction—May 17, 2023: A previous version of this article misstated the starting age at which delaying the collection of Social Security benefits increases them.
What Is the Social Security Administration (SSA)?  

The Social Security Administration (SSA) is a U.S. government agency that administers social programs covering disability, retirement, and survivors' benefits, among other services. It's also responsible for issuing Social Security numbers and managing the program’s finances and trust fund.





Key Takeaways

The Social Security Administration (SSA) oversees and runs the Social Security program in the United States.Benefits that the SSA administers include Social Security retirement income and disability income programs, among others.The SSA is also responsible for issuing Social Security numbers and managing the program’s finances and trust funds.The SSA also administers Supplemental Security Income (SSI) payments and processes enrollment in Medicare Parts A and B.


   How the Social Security Administration Works  

The SSA administers the Social Security program. Social Security is a vital part of the retirement income planning strategy of many Americans, particularly as savings rates remain low: 4.6% as of February 2023.



Almost 67 million Americans, including retired workers, disabled workers, and survivors, received Social Security benefits at the end of 2023, according to the SSA. Social Security is one of the largest government programs in the world.



The benefits are funded with payroll taxes paid by employers, employees, and the self-employed. The tax revenue goes into two Social Security trust funds: the Old-Age and Survivors Insurance (OASI) Trust Fund for retirees and the Disability Insurance Trust Fund (DI) for disability beneficiaries, which also make the benefit payments.



Supplemental Security Income (SSI) is distinct from Social Security. It isn't funded by payroll taxes. It aids the disabled, blind, and elderly who have limited income and resources.



Unlike most U.S. government agencies, the SSA is headquartered in Baltimore, Maryland rather than Washington, D.C. The SSA has 10 regional offices, six processing centers, and approximately 1,230 field offices in cities across the country. It employs almost 60,000 workers.






Nearly all local Social Security offices have reopened after closings caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. The SSA maintains an online list of office closings and emergencies.


  Social Security Administration Services  

The SSA provides a wide range of services in addition to overseeing retirement and disability benefits programs and administering SSI, including enrollment in Parts A and B of the Medicare program.



It also issues the Social Security numbers (SSNs) required to access numerous government and private sector services, from credit financing and insurance coverage to hunting licenses.


   History of the Social Security Administration  

The Social Security Board was created in 1935 when President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed the Social Security Act into law. The SSA has since gone through numerous name changes and operational revisions under other presidential administrations. It was part of the Department of Health and Human Services until 1994 when it regained its original status as an independent agency.



President Biden fired SSA commissioner Andrew Saul in July 2021 and appointed Kilolo Kijakazi as acting commissioner. Kijakazi was deputy commissioner for retirement and disability policy at the SSA before her appointment. Saul was criticized for efforts to reduce access to disability benefits, delays in providing the information necessary to issue stimulus payments, and clashing with employee unions over COVID-19 safety protocols, including remote work.



The SSA is an independent agency and Saul's term was not due to expire until January 2025, but two Supreme Court rulings have given presidents greater authority to remove appointees. One determined that President Trump was free to fire the head of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) in June 2020 and a second authorized President Biden to remove the chief of the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) in June 2021.


   Social Security Administration: Annual Report  

The Boards of Trustees of Social Security issue a report each year on the current and projected financial status of the SSA's programs. The Social Security Board of Trustees projected in its 2023 report that the reserves of the Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund (OASI) will be depleted in 2033 rather than 2034 as was indicated in the 2022 report.



This occurred amid the swing to annual funding shortfalls as a result of Baby Boomer retirements. Payroll tax receipts will be sufficient to pay just 77% of scheduled benefits in 2033.






The Disability Insurance Trust Fund (DI) is expected to maintain a surplus until 2097, up from 2096 in the 2022 report.



The combined OASI Trust Fund and the DI Trust Fund, together termed OASDI, would be projected to pay 100% of benefits until 2034 when the reserves will be depleted. At that point, continuing fund income would cover 80% of benefits after that point. This combined fund projection is used to gauge the overall health of the Social Security program.




What Programs Does the Social Security Administration Oversee?
The Social Security Administration (SSA) oversees the Social Security program, which provides benefits for qualified retirees, disabled people, and their spouses, children, and survivors. The SSA also administers Supplemental Security Income (SSI) benefit payments, handles enrollment in Medicare Parts A and B, and issues Social Security numbers.




What's the Difference Between Supplemental Security Income and Social Security?
Supplemental Security Income (SSI) provides monthly cash payments to help elderly or disabled people who have little to no income meet basic needs. This program is separate from the retirement and disability benefits under Social Security.




How Do I Replace my Social Security Card?
You can request a new card online at SSA's website if you need to replace your Social Security card but require no other changes. You can also fill out a print version of the application and return it by mail.


   The Bottom Line  

The Social Security Administration manages, administers, and disperses benefits to millions of Americans each year. Understanding the SSA and how it works can help ensure that you receive the benefits you're entitled to.
What Is a Social Security Number (SSN)?  

The term Social Security number (SSN) refers to a numerical identifier assigned to U.S. citizens and other residents to track income and determine benefits.



The SSN was created in 1936 as part of The New Deal to provide for retirement and disability benefits. The original intention of the SSN was to track earnings and provide benefits. Now, it is used for additional purposes, such as identifying individuals for tax purposes and tracking credit reports.



Individuals in the U.S. are asked to provide their SSN to obtain credit, open bank accounts, obtain government benefits, make major purchases, and more.





Key Takeaways

A Social Security number is a numerical identifier assigned to U.S. citizens and other residents to track income and determine benefits.The SSN was created in 1936 as part of The New Deal.SSNs are issued by the Social Security Administration.To get a Social Security number, you must file Form SS-5 with the Social Security Administration.SSNs are susceptible to illegal use by those involved in identity theft and fraud.


   How Social Security Numbers Work  

With very few exceptions, all U.S. citizens, permanent residents, and temporary or working residents have a Social Security number. Even non-working residents (citizens and non-citizens alike) can obtain an SSN, due to its use by businesses and government entities.



The legal framework for assigning a Social Security number is provided under Section 205(c)(2) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S. Code, Chapter 7, Subsection 405). Social Security numbers and cards are issued by the Social Security Administration (SSA).



Social Security numbers are now random streams of digits. However, prior to 2011, the numbers had specific purposes. In those years, the first three digits represented the area in which the individual was born or was from. The next pair of numbers was originally slated to represent a year or month of birth.



Due to concern that this could be falsified, the Social Security Administration instead voted to have it represent a group number. Thus far, no Social Security numbers have been reused, though there have been some cases in which two people were issued the same number.






Scammers are everywhere, so it's important that you keep your information safe and secure. You can avoid scams and report them directly to authorities through the Federal Trade Commission's website.


   The History of SSNs  

As noted above, the Social Security number was established as part of a program developed by President Franklin D. Roosevelt to help citizens of the United States following the Great Depression.



Roosevelt signed the Social Security Act in 1935 to help provide Americans with economic stability, especially to people over the age of 65. This included financial benefits that would be based on the amount of income they received before they entered retirement.



The Social Security Board was established in order to maintain the Social Security Act and to keep on top of recordkeeping. This led to the creation in 1936 of a unique nine-digit number assigned to each individual.


   Components of the SSN  
  Area Number  

The first group of three digits is the area number. It represented the issuing state. States could have more than one number, depending on how many people needed SSNs. Examples of area numbers include 001 to 003 for New Hampshire and 575 to 576 for Hawaii.



Generally, people on the east coast have the lowest SSNs. Area numbers ascended as assignment moved westward. So, people on the west coast tend to have the highest SSNs.



Beginning in 1972, the area number was assigned based on the zip code associated with the mailing address (which isn't necessarily the place of residence) on the application.



There have been exceptions to the original area number assignment process:



700–728 were assigned to railroad workers until 1963.586 was assigned to American Samoa, Guam, the Philippines, Americans employed internationally by American companies, and Indochinese refugees (from 1975 to 1979).729–733 were allocated to the Department for Homeland Security for its Enumeration of Entry program for non-citizens admitted to the U.S. for permanent residence.666 will never be assigned.


  Group Number  

The following group of two digits is the group number. Group numbers range from 01 to 99. They weren't necessarily assigned consecutively. They originally represented the groups of 10,000 numbers issued to a state's post offices which were to help assign SSNs. They came to represent the issuing office.


  Serial Number  

The last four digits in the third group are the actual serial number. They ascended from 0001 to 9999 within each group. The serial number 0000 isn't used.



In 2011, SSNs began to be issued randomly.



The usage of SSNs has changed over its lifetime as well. For instance, in 1943, federal government agencies were required to use them in order to identify individuals. Other key moments in the SSN's timeline include:



The use of SSNs for tax reporting purposes by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in 1962
The requirement of banks to obtain SSNs from all their customers as of 1970
The need to provide financial institutions with your SSN for an interest-bearing account in 1983
The printing of SSNs on driver's licenses as well as birth and death records in 1996; SSNs were removed from driver's licenses and birth records in 1999
The removal of laws requiring use of SSNs as a way to identify individuals in 2008






Although the issuing pattern for SSNs called for numbers to be assigned starting with the most eastern state, the lowest number—001-01-0001—was assigned in 1936 not to a Maine citizen but to a woman residing in Concord, New Hampshire.


   Why You Need a SSN  

A Social Security number is very important to have due to its direct connection to the future benefits you may be entitled to receive from the U.S. government.



An SSN is used to track an individual's yearly earnings and the number of years they've worked. These figures are required to compute potential financial benefits, whether they relate to retirement income, disability income, or health insurance.



When people start their working careers, employers request their Social Security numbers as part of the application process. They provide the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) with details of salary payments associated with each SSN and the withholdings made for employees' contributions to Social Security and Medicare. Employers also report this information to any state that has an income tax.


  Other Reasons You May Need an SSN  

To open a bank account or other financial accountTo apply for a federal loanTo apply for unemploymentAs an identifier on tax returnsTo get a driver's licenseTo obtain a passportWhen enrolling in Medicare


   How to Get a SSN  

A Social Security number and its corresponding card may be obtained by filling out Form SS-5: Application for a Social Security Card from the SSA. The form explains how to obtain an original card, replace a card, and change or correct SSN records.



A full list of requirements, such as documentation that proves age, identity, and U.S. citizenship or immigration status, is included on the form. There is no cost to obtain a number or card. In some circumstances, an individual may change their Social Security number.





420 million

The number of Social Security numbers available for assignment.


   SSNs and Identity Theft  

Social Security numbers are frequently used as a personal identifier and to obtain credit. They contain no biometrics and rely on documentation to prove validity. They are susceptible to use for identity theft and fraud.



A notable example of this is when the chief executive officer (CEO) of identity theft prevention service LifeLock used his SSN in advertisements as a testament to his company's effectiveness. His identity was later stolen multiple times.



There has been some movement among legislators to separate some activities from SSN use, such as renting an apartment or obtaining a hunting or fishing license.


  What to Do If Your SSN Is Stolen  

If you discover that your Social Security number is being used by someone else or if you lose your card, there are steps you should consider taking immediately.



Contact the credit reporting agencies (Experian, TransUnion, and Equifax) to make sure they are aware of the issue; have a security or fraud alert attached to your credit report.
Contact the Social Security Administration to notify it of fraudulent use of your number, or the potential for it. If you lost your card, discuss the process to replace it.
File a police report on an actual theft of your card or use of your number.
Monitor your credit reports for any unauthorized use of existing credit accounts or the unauthorized opening of new accounts.




How Can I Find Out if Someone Is Using My Social Security Number?
There's no easy way to check and see whether your Social Security number has been compromised. Many people don't find out until it's too late. However, there are a few ways you can keep up-to-date with any unusual activity that may be related to someone else using it. You can monitor your credit reports and bank accounts, verify your income with the Social Security Administration, and request tax transcripts with the IRS.




What Can Someone Do With Your Social Security Number?
Your SSN is one of the most important pieces of personal information—if not the most important—that you'll ever have. That's why it's so important that you keep it confidential. Someone who has your SSN can use it to impersonate you, obtain credit and open bank accounts, apply for jobs, steal your tax refunds, get medical treatment, and steal your government benefits.




What Should You Do if Your Social Security Number Is Stolen?
Identity thieves are everywhere. Contact the Social Security Administration if you suspect that your number is stolen. The agency can help fix problems related to income. If you have problems with your credit, you must contact your financial institution and the credit reporting agencies (Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion). You can also file complaints with IdentityTheft.gov, the Internal Revenue Service, and the Internet Crime Center to report any suspicious activity.




How Do You Get a New Social Security Number?
In order to get an SSN, you must fill out form Form SS-5 and provide the SSA with two documents that prove your age and identity, and citizenship or immigration status.




How Long Does It Take to Get a Social Security Number?
The Social Security Administration mails individuals their social security cards as soon as it receives all the necessary information and documentation. This can take as long as two to four weeks, especially when the administration is facing delays.


   The Bottom Line  

A social security number, or SSN, is a unique identifying number associated with U.S. citizens and other residents in the country. It's been around since 1936, about the time that the Social Security Administration was established (1935) to provide us with retirement and disability benefits.



Today, the need for an SSN goes beyond calculating what we're entitled to receive as a result of the contributions we've made throughout our working lives to Social Security and Medicare.



It's required to open financial accounts, apply for loans, apply for unemployment assistance, and get a driver's license.



Your social security number is your key to important future benefits. So, it's crucial to protect it and the card that it's on. Be sure to use it only when officially required (and not simply when someone asks you for it).
What Is a Social Welfare System?  

A social welfare system provides assistance to individuals and families in need. The types and amount of welfare available to individuals and families vary depending on the country, state, or region. In the U.S., the federal government provides grants to each state through the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program.﻿﻿






The benefits that an individual or family receives as part of a social welfare system will vary by state, as will the eligibility requirements. 


   How a Social Welfare System Works  

Social welfare systems provide assistance to individuals and families through programs such as health care, food stamps, unemployment compensation, housing assistance, and child care assistance. In the U.S., a caseworker is assigned to each individual or family applying for benefits to determine and confirm the applicant's needs.



The benefits available to an individual vary by state. Eligibility is determined based on factors surrounding the person’s financial status and how it relates to the minimum acceptable levels within a particular state. The factors involved can include the size of the family unit, current income levels, or an assessed disability.



Within each state, social welfare systems may go by different names, but they often serve similar functions. This can cause confusion when attempting to compare one state's program to another. Additionally, the requirements to qualify also vary, depending on the poverty line in a particular state. This allows for adjustments based on items such as cost of living that are not standardized across the country.





Key Takeaways

A social welfare system offers assistance to individuals and families in need, with such programs as health care assistance, food stamps, and unemployment compensation. Lesser known parts of a social welfare system include disaster relief and educational assistance. The federal government provides grants to each state through the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program.﻿﻿Eligibility for benefits is based on a number of factors, including income levels and family size.


   Benefits of Social Welfare Systems  

Available benefits generally cover assistance for food, housing, child care, and medical care. In the case of TANF, federal funds are provided to the states for distribution. These funds may be used for cash assistance, allowing a household to spend the funds as it deems necessary to meet its needs and obligations.﻿﻿



Some available housing benefits go beyond locating suitable and affordable properties and providing housing cost assistance. A household may qualify for assistance to complete certain energy efficiency upgrades.﻿﻿ It may also receive funds to help pay utility bills.﻿﻿



Benefits around health and nutrition can include access to affordable medical care. Food and nutrition programs may supply funds, often referred to as food stamps or the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), to provide easier access to food in general.﻿﻿ Additional nutritional assistance through the Women, Infants and Children (WIC) program provides food-specific benefits to ensure pregnant women and young children have access to healthy food options to promote growth and development.﻿﻿



Other programs that are parts of the social welfare system include disaster relief assistance, educational assistance, agricultural loans, and services specifically for veterans.
What Is Socialism?  

Socialism is a populist economic and political system based on collective, common, or public ownership of the means of production. Those means of production include the machinery, tools, and factories used to produce goods that aim to directly satisfy human needs.



In contrast to capitalism, whereby business owners control the means of production and pay wages to workers to use those means, socialism envisions shared ownership and control among the laboring class.


  Essential Features  

In a purely socialist system, all production and distribution decisions are made by the collective, directed by a central planner or government body. Worker cooperatives, however, are also a form of socialized production.



Socialist systems tend to have robust welfare systems and social safety nets so that individuals rely on the state for everything from food to healthcare. The government determines the output and pricing levels of these goods and services.



Socialists contend that shared ownership of resources and central planning provide a more equal distribution of goods and services and a more equitable society.





Key Takeaways

Socialism is an economic and political system based on collective ownership of the means of production.All legal production and distribution decisions are made by the government in a socialist system. The government also determines all output and pricing levels and supplies its citizens with everything from food to healthcare.Proponents of socialism believe that it leads to a more equal distribution of goods and services and a more equitable society.Socialist ideals include production for use, rather than for profit; an equitable distribution of wealth and material resources among all people; no more competitive buying and selling in the market; and free access to goods and services.Capitalism, with its belief in private ownership and the maximizing of profits, stands in contrast to socialism, but most capitalist economies today have some socialist aspects.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding Socialism  

Common ownership under socialism may take shape through technocratic, oligarchic, totalitarian, democratic, or even voluntary rule. A prominent historical example of a socialist country, albeit one run by communists, is the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (U.S.S.R.), also known as the Soviet Union.



Due to its practical challenges and poor track record, socialism is sometimes referred to as a utopian or “post-scarcity” system, although modern adherents believe it could work if only properly implemented.



They argue that socialism creates equality and provides security—a worker’s value comes from the amount of time they work, not in the value of what they produce—while capitalism exploits workers for the benefit of the wealthy.


  Ideals  

Socialist ideals include:



 Production for use, rather than for profit
An equitable distribution of wealth and material resources among all people
No more competitive buying and selling in the market 
Free access to goods and services. 



As an old socialist slogan describes it, “from each according to ability, to each according to need.”






While socialism calls for collective or shared ownership of the means of production, it does not imply that there is no private ownership of personal property. Thus, corporations and factories would be shared among the members of society, but individuals and households would still own their own personal effects.


   History of Socialism  










Investopedia / Hilary Allison



Socialism as a system of shared resources and collective production dates back to the earliest human civilizations. Tribal or clan-based societies would often work for the common good and work together to produce enough food and supplies for the entire population.



Collective agriculture persisted for thousands of years. This was replaced in many places by a sort of feudal system, whereby landed nobility (lords) ruled over peasants (serfs) who worked the land without owning it.


  Socialism's Deep Roots  

Socialism's intellectual roots date back to Plato's Republic, in which he described a collective society. Centuries later, Thomas More's Utopia echoed Platonic ideals in its depiction of an imaginary island where people live and work communally.



Socialism was a direct response to the Industrial Revolution, which brought enormous economic and social change to Great Britain and the rest of the world. As industrialists grew wealthy on the labor of workers who increasingly lived in poverty, socialism emerged as an alternative to capitalism, one that could improve life for the working class.


  Modern Socialism  

Modern socialism developed in opposition to the excesses and abuses of liberal individualism and capitalism.



Under early capitalist economies during the late 18th and 19th centuries, western European countries experienced industrial production and compound economic growth at a rapid pace.



Some individuals and families rose to riches quickly, while others sank into poverty. Capitalism created income inequality and spurred other social concerns.



The most famous early socialist thinkers were Robert Owen and Henri de Saint-Simon, and later Karl Marx and then Vladimir Lenin. It was primarily Lenin who expounded on the ideas of earlier socialists and helped bring socialist planning to the national level after the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution in Russia.



Following the failure of socialist central planning in the former Soviet Union and Maoist China during the 20th century, many modern socialists adjusted to a high regulatory and redistributive system sometimes referred to as market socialism or democratic socialism.






Critics of socialism contend that it is based on faulty principles and ignores human nature.


   Socialism vs. Capitalism  

Capitalist economies (which today are often synonymous with the free-market or market economies) and socialist economies differ by their logical underpinnings of the structures of ownership and production.



Socialists and free-market economists tend to agree on fundamental economics—the supply and demand framework, for instance—while disagreeing about its proper adaptation and how commodities should be produced.



Functionally, socialism and free-market capitalism are often divided on two core issues: property rights and control of production. In a capitalist economy, private individuals and enterprises own the means of production and have the right to profit from them. Private property rights are taken very seriously and apply to nearly everything.



In a purely socialist economy, the collective owns and controls the means of production; personal property is allowed, but in the form of consumer goods. Essential services like healthcare, education, and public transportation are administered for free by the government and funded through taxation.


  Differences in Control  

In a socialist economy, public officials known as central planners may control the behavior of producers, consumers, savers, borrowers, and investors by taking over and regulating trade, the flow of capital, and other resources. In a free-market economy, trade is conducted on a voluntary, or nonregulated, basis. However, there are many other ways to coordinate production in a collectivist fashion without such dominating control and loss of personal autonomy.


  The Individual vs. the Central Planner  

Market economies rely on the separate actions of self-determining individuals to determine production, distribution, and consumption. Decisions about what, when, and how to produce are made privately and coordinated through a spontaneously developed price system, and prices are determined by the laws of supply and demand.



Proponents say that freely floating market prices direct resources towards their most efficient ends. Profits are encouraged and drive future production.



Socialist economies rely on either the government or worker cooperatives to drive production and distribution. Consumption is regulated, but it is still partially left up to individuals. The state determines how main resources are used and taxes wealth for redistributive efforts.



Socialist economic thinkers consider many private economic activities to be irrational, such as arbitrage or leverage, because they do not create immediate consumption or use. Still, Marx saw that capitalism was rife with contradictions, class conflict, and self-destructive competition. As a result, he saw socialism as the logical next phase of human political economy.






Several philosophical questions also lie at the heart of the debate between socialism and capitalism: What is the role of government? What constitutes a human right? What roles should equality and justice play in society?


   Socialism vs. Communism  
  Similarities  

Communism and socialism are umbrella terms referring to two left-wing schools of economic thought. Both oppose capitalism, but socialism predates the "Communist Manifesto," an 1848 pamphlet by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, by a few decades.



They are both economic philosophies that advocate for public ownership, particularly over the means of production and the distribution and exchange of goods in a society.



And both philosophies run contrary to free market capitalism, which, they contend, exploits workers and creates a widening gap between rich and poor.


  Differences  

There are differences between socialism and communism, however. In fact, communism can be thought of as a strict and all-encompassing version of socialism.



Under communism, all property is communally owned; private property doesn't exist. Under socialism, individuals can still own private property.



Karl Marx predicted that a violent worker uprising against the middle and upper classes would bring about the communist state, whereas socialists tend to seek change and reform without overthrowing the prevailing social and political structure.



And according to communist theory, workers should be given what they need, while under socialist theory, they are to be compensated for their level of contribution to the economy.


   Contention Between Socialists and Capitalists  
  Socialist Claims  

There are many points of contention between socialists and capitalists. Socialists consider capitalism and the free market to be unfair and possibly unsustainable. Most socialists contend that market capitalism is incapable of providing enough subsistence to the lower classes. They contend that greedy owners suppress wages and seek to retain profits for themselves.


  Capitalist Claims  

Proponents of market capitalism counter that it is impossible for socialist economies to allocate scarce resources efficiently without real market prices. They claim that the resultant shortages, surpluses, and political corruption will lead to more poverty, not less. Overall, they say, socialism is impractical and inefficient, suffering in particular from two major challenges.



The first challenge for socialism, widely called the “incentive problem,” is that no one wants to be a sanitation worker or wash skyscraper windows. That is, socialist planners cannot incentivize laborers to accept dangerous or uncomfortable jobs without violating the equality of outcomes.



Far more serious is the calculation problem, a concept originating from economist Ludwig von Mises’ 1920 article "Economic Calculation in the Socialist Commonwealth".



Socialists, wrote Mises, are unable to perform any real economic calculation without a pricing mechanism. Without accurate factor costs, no true accounting may take place. Without futures markets, capital can never reorganize efficiently over time.


   Can a Country Be Both Socialist and Capitalist?  

While socialism and capitalism seem diametrically opposed, most capitalist economies today have some socialist aspects. Elements of a market economy and a socialist economy can be combined into a mixed economy.



And in fact, most modern countries operate with a mixed economic system; government and private individuals both influence production and distribution.



Economist and social theorist Hans-Hermann Hoppe wrote that there are only two archetypes in economic affairs—socialism and capitalism—and that every real system is a combination of these archetypes.



But because of the archetypes' differences, there is an inherent challenge in the philosophy of a mixed economy and it becomes a never-ending balancing act between predictable obedience to the state and the unpredictable consequences of individual behavior.






The Great Recession and the COVID-19 pandemic have increased interest in the government creating more opportunities and increasing the social safety net for all Americans. These are hallmarks of socialist policy, and not everyone agrees with such ideas.


   How Mixed Economies Develop  

Mixed economies are still relatively young and theories around them have only recently been codified. The Wealth of Nations, Adam Smith's pioneering economic treatise, argued that markets were spontaneous and that the state could not direct them, or the economy.



Later economists, including John-Baptiste Say, F.A. Hayek, Milton Friedman, and Joseph Schumpeter, would expand on this idea.



However, in 1985, political economy theorists Wolfgang Streeck and Philippe C. Schmitter introduced the term "economic governance" to describe markets that are not spontaneous but have to be created and maintained by institutions. The state, to pursue its objectives, needs to create a market that follows its rules.


  Frameworks for Mixed Economies  

Historically, mixed economies have followed two trajectories. The first assumes that private individuals have the right to own property, produce, and trade.



State intervention has developed gradually, usually in the name of protecting consumers, supporting industries crucial to the public good (in fields like energy or communications), providing welfare, or other aspects of the social safety net. Most western democracies, such as the United States, follow this model.



The second trajectory relates to states that evolved from pure collectivist or totalitarian regimes. Individuals' interests are considered a distant second in importance to state interests, but elements of capitalism are adopted to promote economic growth. China and Russia are examples of the second model.






Private businesses now produce more than half of China’s GDP and most of its exports.


   Socialist Countries  
  China  

Today, very few countries are close to pure socialism. Perhaps China is the most prominent example, with a communist government that effectively nationalizes many of the nation's key industries.



State-owned enterprises are a key feature of the Chinese economy, although several steps toward capitalism and liberalization have created certain economic zones (e.g., in Shanghai) where private corporations can co-exist and profit.


  Cuba  

Cuba remained closer to a Marxist-Leninist socialist economy, following its communist revolution in 1959 and the installation of Fidel Castro as its leader. After Castro's death, however, Cuba, too, saw some liberalization.



In 2019, Cubans voted for a new constitution that granted private property rights and greater access to free markets, while preserving the socialist political system.


  North Korea  

The last remaining Marxist-Leninist socialist economy that has not seen any reforms is that of North Korea. N. Korea remains ruled by a communist dictatorship and a closed command economy governed by strict central planning. Laos, another country in Asia, is also a socialist state, but is more open than N. Korea.


   Transitioning From Socialism  

A nation needs to transfer the means of production to transition from socialism to free markets. The process of transferring functions and assets from central authorities to private individuals is known as privatization.



Privatization occurs whenever ownership rights transfer from a coercive public authority to a private actor, whether it is a company or an individual.



Different forms of privatization include contracting out to private firms, awarding franchises, and the outright sale of government assets, or divestiture.


  Contracting Government Control  

In some cases, privatization is not really privatization. Case in point: private prisons. Rather than completely ceding a service to competitive markets and the influence of supply and demand, private prisons in the United States are actually just a contracted-out government monopoly.



The scope of functions that form the prison is largely controlled by government laws and executed by government policy. It is important to remember that not all transfers of government control result in a free market.






Cuba has moved towards privatizing many aspects of its economy, incorporating more capitalism into its society. In early 2021, it began allowing people to work in jobs in over 2,000 private sectors, up from 127.


   Privatizing a Socialist Economy  

Some nationwide privatization efforts have been relatively mild, while others have been dramatic. The most striking examples include the former satellite nations of the Soviet Bloc after the collapse of the U.S.S.R. and the modernization of the post-Mao Chinese government.


  Required Reforms  

The privatization process involves several different kinds of reforms, not all of them completely economic.



Enterprises need to be deregulated and prices need to be allowed to flow based on microeconomic considerations. 
Tariffs and import/export barriers need to be removed. 
State-owned enterprises need to be sold. 
Investment restrictions must be relaxed. 
The state authorities must relinquish their individual interests in the means of production. 



The logistical problems associated with these actions have not been fully resolved and several different theories and practices have been offered throughout history.


  Pitfalls of Change  

Should these transfers be gradual or immediate? What are the impacts of shocking an economy built around central control? Can firms be effectively depoliticized?



As the struggles in Eastern Europe in the 1990s show, it can be very difficult for a population to adjust from complete state control to suddenly having political and economic freedoms.



In Romania, for example, the National Agency for Privatization was charged with the goal of privatizing commercial activity in a controlled manner. Private ownership funds, or POFs, were created in 1991.



The state ownership fund, or SOF, was given the responsibility of selling 10% of the state's shares each year to the POFs, allowing prices and markets to adjust to a new economic process.



But initial efforts failed as progress was slow and politicization compromised many transitions. Further control was given to more government agencies and, over the course of the next decade, a bureaucracy took over what should have been a private market.



These failures are indicative of the primary problem with gradual transitions. When political actors control the process, economic decisions continue to be based on noneconomic justifications.



A quick transition may result in the greatest initial shock and the most initial displacement, but it results in the fastest reallocation of resources toward the most valued, market-based ends.




Is There Socialism in the U.S. Today?
Yes. Social welfare programs such as food stamps, unemployment compensation, and housing assistance can be described as socialist. It can also be argued that government programs like Medicare and Social Security are too. There are also socialist organizations in the U.S., such as the Democratic Socialists of America, which counts among its members Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.), Rashida Tlaib (D-Mich.), Cori Bush (D-Mo.), and Jamaal Bowman (D-N.Y.), all members of the House of Representatives. And Senator Bernie Sanders (D-Vt) is a self-described democratic socialist.Other examples of socialism in the U.S. include organizations like worker co-ops, credit unions, public libraries, and public schools.




What's the Difference Between Social Democracy and Democratic Socialism?
Social democracy is based on maintaining a capitalist economic system but blunting its excesses via regulation and addressing inequality with government-run social programs—in a sense, humanizing capitalism. Social democracies exist today in Denmark, Finland, Norway, and Sweden.Democratic socialism has a vision of a society and economy that is democratic, not authoritarian, in which individuals have more of a say than large corporations in how the economy is run. It is committed to finding ways to transform an economy from capitalism to socialism. As the website of the Democratic Socialists of America notes, "Our vision pushes further than historic social democracy and leaves behind authoritarian visions of socialism in the dustbin of history... We want to collectively own the key economic drivers that dominate our lives, such as energy production and transportation."




Is Socialism Better than Capitalism?
This question is a matter of debate and political ideology. Capitalism has seen the greatest rise in wealth and standards of living in human history, accompanied by innovation and invention. However, capitalism, driven by fierce competition for profits and market share, has also been blamed for rising wealth disparities, social inequalities, alienation, exploitation, and the misery of the working class.Socialism, on the other hand, promises egalitarianism by returning the means of production to the laboring class. In doing so, wealth disparities are greatly minimized and society as a whole may flourish. However, collective ownership and less competition might put a damper on innovation and technological progress. Furthermore, people are often wary of giving up personal freedom (although it may benefit the greater good) as governments direct production and consumption choices.




Which Countries Are Socialist?
Today, most countries in the world feature some aspects of socialism. Even in the United States, but especially in countries found in Europe and Asia. Only a few are full-blown pure socialist (Marxist-Leninist communist) economies: The Peoples' Republic of China, Cuba, Laos, Vietnam, and North Korea (the U.S.S.R. also was, but the Soviet Union collapsed in the 1990s).


   The Bottom Line  

The economic and political system of socialism has been a part of human existence, in theory or practice, for many centuries. It espouses the collective ownership of the means of production and places the importance of state control above that of the individual.



Proponents believe that it creates equality and provides workers with security. Critics claim it neglects essential human behavior. Socialism contrasts with capitalism, a system based on a free-market economy and private ownership.
What Is a Socially Responsible Investment (SRI)?  

Socially responsible investing (SRI), also known as social investment, is an investment that is considered socially responsible due to the nature of the business the company conducts. A common theme for socially responsible investments is socially conscious investing. Socially responsible investments can be made into individual companies with good social value, or through a socially conscious mutual fund or exchange-traded fund (ETF).





Key Takeaways

Socially responsible investing is the practice of investing money in companies and funds that have positive social impacts.Socially responsible investing has been growing in popularity in recent history. Investors should keep in mind that socially responsible investments are still investments and be sure to weigh the potential for return in their decisions.Community investing is a type of investing where the return is measured on community impact rather than monetary return.Socially responsible investments tend to mimic the political and social climate of the time.


   Understanding Socially Responsible Investment (SRI)  

Socially responsible investments—known as conscious capitalism—include eschewing investments in companies that produce or sell addictive substances or activities (like alcohol, gambling, and tobacco) in favor of seeking out companies that are engaged in social justice, environmental sustainability, and alternative energy/clean technology efforts.



In recent history, socially conscious investing has been growing into a widely-followed practice, as there are dozens of new funds and pooled investment vehicles available for retail investors. Mutual funds and ETFs provide an added advantage in that investors can gain exposure to multiple companies across many sectors with a single investment. However, investors should read carefully through fund prospectuses to determine the exact philosophies being employed by fund managers, along with the potential profitability of these investments.



There are two inherent goals of socially responsible investing: social impact and financial gain. The two do not necessarily have to go hand in hand; just because an investment touts itself as socially responsible doesn't mean that it will provide investors with a good return and the promise of a good return is far from an assurance that the nature of the company involved is socially conscious. An investor must still assess the financial outlook of the investment while trying to gauge its social value.






Demand for ESG investments soared in 2020. Nearly 60% of respondents to an Investopedia and Treehugger survey indicated an increase in interest in ESG investments and 19% reported incorporating ESG standards into their portfolios.


   Special Considerations  

Socially responsible investments tend to mimic the political and social climate of the time. That is an important risk for investors to understand, because if an investment is based on a social value, then the investment may suffer if that social value falls out of favor among investors.



For this reason, socially responsible investing is often considered by investment professionals through the lens of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors for investing. This approach focuses on the company's management practices and whether they tend toward sustainability and community improvement. There is evidence that a focus on this approach can improve returns, whereas there is no evidence for investing success from investing purely on social values alone.



For example, in the 1960s, investors were mainly concerned with contributing to causes such as women's rights, civil rights, and the anti-war movement. Martin Luther King Jr. played a large role in raising awareness for the civil rights movement by targeting companies that opposed the cause as socially irresponsible.



As awareness has grown in recent years over global warming and climate change, socially responsible investing has trended toward companies that positively impact the environment by reducing emissions or investing in sustainable or clean energy sources. Consequently, these investments avoid industries such as coal mining due to the negative environmental impact of their business practices.






One form of socially responsible investing involves promoting racial justice, equality, and inclusion. Known as racial justice investing, the purpose is to leverage both institutional and retail dollars to invest in ways that advance this and other anti-racist causes.


   Example of Socially Responsible Investing  

One example of socially responsible investing is community investing, which goes directly toward organizations that both have a track record of social responsibility through helping the community, and have been unable to garner funds from other sources such as banks and financial institutions. The funds allow these organizations to provide services to their communities, such as affordable housing and loans. The goal is to improve the quality of the community by reducing its dependency on government assistance such as welfare, which in turn has a positive impact on the community's economy.




Where Can Socially Responsible Investments Be Made?
They can be made into individual companies that have good social value or through a socially conscious mutual fund or exchange-traded fund (ETF).




What Does ESG Represent?
ESG stands for environmental, social, and governance, which are important factors for some investors to adhere to. Those investors look for solid management of a company and seek out those that gear toward sustainability and community improvement. In 2020, the popularity of ESG investments took off.




Which Are Among the Top Socially Responsible Bond ETFs?
They are VanEck Investment Grade Floating Rate ETF (FLTR), issued by VanEck; SPDR Bloomberg Investment Grade Floating Rate ETF (FLRN), issued by State Street; and iShares Floating Rate Bond ETF (FLOT), issued by BlackRock Financial Management.
What Is a Société Anonyme (S.A.)?  

Société anonyme (S.A.) is a French term for a public limited company (PLC) and has many equivalents all over the world. An S.A. is the equivalent of a corporation in the United States, a public limited company in the United Kingdom, or an Aktiengesellschaft (AG) in Germany.



An S.A. is a type of business structure that establishes a company as a legal person that can own and transfer property, enter contracts, and be held liable for crimes. Some of its key benefits are that it limits the owners’ personal liability for the company’s actions and ensures the continuity of the moral entity without any dependence on the founders, owners ,or shareholders' lives.





Key Takeaways

A société anonyme is a French business structure that is equivalent to a corporation in the United States or a public limited company in the United Kingdom.In 1808, the French government implemented the société anonyme as one of several measures to provide structure to the nation's commerce and to prevent the rampant speculation that had lead to a cycle of boom and busts.A benefit of a société anonyme is that it limits an owner's risk and protects the owner's personal assets against creditor claims.


   Understanding the Société Anonyme  

The société anonyme is a popular business structure with equivalents in many other languages and countries. In all cases, a company designated S.A. protects its owners’ personal assets against claims by creditors, which makes many individuals more willing to start companies, as it limits their risk.



The S.A. structure also makes it easier to meet a growing business' capital-funding needs, as numerous investors can contribute large or small amounts of money as shareholders if the company opts for public ownership. The S.A. is thus a key component of a robust capitalist economy.






One of the société anonyme's key benefits is that it establishes the company as a legal person and thus limits the owners’ personal liability for the company’s actions.


   History of Société Anonyme (S.A.)  

On Jan. 1, 1808, the French government put into effect the provisions regarding the formation and structure of a société anonyme as part of the country's new code regulating commerce. One purpose of these new regulations was to prevent the rampant speculation that had rocked the French markets prior to and during the French Revolution. The code recognized three forms of business organization: the société en nom collectif, the société en commandite, and the société anonyme.



A société en nom collectif is a standard partnership in which all partners have unlimited liability, any partner could act for the others, and all partners are actively engaged in the enterprise.



By comparison, the société en commandite is comprised of limited partners (also known as sleeping or silent partners) and active partners. The limited partners provide assets or capital to the enterprise and have limited liability, while the active partners are responsible for all management activities and have unlimited liability.


   Requirements of a Société Anonyme (S.A.)  

An S.A. is subject to different tax regulations than a sole proprietorship or partnership, and, in the case of a public S.A., different accounting and auditing requirements. In addition, to be valid, a société anonyme must meet certain requirements. While these requirements vary depending on the country, most S.A.s must file articles of incorporation, have a board of directors, a managing director or a management board, a supervisory board, a statutory auditor and deputy, a unique name, and some minimum amount of capital. It is generally constituted for 99 years maximum.



In Luxembourg, for example, an S.A. must be funded with at least €30,000, 25% of which must be deposited during the incorporation process, and have at least two partners. An S.A. in Luxembourg must also pay various costs such as notary fees, the cost of registration with other regulatory agencies, as well as statutory auditor fees. Well-known companies that are established as S.A.s include Nestlé, Anheuser-Busch InBev, and L’Oréal.


   Examples of a Société Anonyme (S.A.)  

Many other countries and languages employ the société anonyme structure. Some examples:



Brazil: Sociedad Anônima
Denmark: Aktieselskab (A/S)
India: Public Limited (LTD.)
Indonesia: Perseroan Terbatas Terbuka (P.T. Tbk.)
Japan: Kabushiki Gaisha (K.K.)
Korea: Jusighoesa (J)
Malaysia: Berhad (Bhd)
The Netherlands: Naamloze Vennootschap (N.V.)
Norway: Aksjeselskap (AS)
Poland: Spólka Akcyjna
Sweden: Aktiebolag (AB)
What Are Soft Skills?  

Soft skills are character traits and interpersonal skills that characterize a person’s relationships with other people. In the workplace, soft skills are considered to be a complement to hard skills, which refer to a person’s knowledge and occupational skills. Sociologists may use the term “soft skills” to describe a person’s emotional intelligence quotient (EQ) as opposed to intelligence quotient (IQ).



Soft skills have more to do with who people are than what they know. As such, they encompass the character traits that decide how well one interacts with others and usually are a definite part of an individual’s personality. In a competitive labor market, employees who demonstrate that they have a good combination of hard and soft skills often see a greater demand for their services.





Key Takeaways


Soft skills include attributes and personality traits that help employees interact with others and succeed in the workplace.
Examples of soft skills include the ability to communicate with prospective clients, mentor your co-workers, lead a team, negotiate a contract, follow instructions, and get a job done on time.
Hard skills are measurable and usually obtained through formal education and training programs.
Workers with good soft skills can help companies achieve higher levels of efficiency and productivity.
In contrast to hard skills, soft skills are more difficult to acquire through training.



   Understanding Soft Skills  

Employers look for a balance of hard skills and soft skills when making hiring decisions. For example, employers value skilled workers with a track record of getting jobs done on time. Employers also value workers with strong communication skills and a strong understanding of company products and services. When communicating with prospective clients, workers with soft skills can put together compelling presentations even if their specific job is not in sales or marketing. Another valued soft skill is the ability to coach fellow co-workers on new tasks.



Company leaders often are most effective when they have strong soft skills. For example, leaders are expected to have good speaking abilities, but great leaders are also good at listening to workers and to other leaders in their fields.



Negotiation is a big part of the job for many company leaders. When negotiating with employees, clients, or associates, leaders need to be skilled in staying considerate of what others want while remaining focused on pushing for what they want. Good leaders also need to know how to make their own work most efficient by strategically delegating tasks to workers.






Companies often like to hire employees who possess soft skills that mesh well with the rest of the staff, considering them to be a good cultural fit for the company.


   Hard Skills vs. Soft Skills  

Workers acquire hard skills through formal education, training programs, and concentrated effort. Hard skills are the quantifiable skills that workers need to have to successfully perform a specific job. Employers often test or evaluate a candidate’s hard skills before hiring. Examples of hard skills include computer programming, writing, web development, and graphic design. Some hard skills are more in demand than others, and employers may need to hire recruitment agencies or headhunters to fill jobs that require high-level skills.






Coaching is one of the most common and effective methods for improving soft skills.



Hard skills can be learned and perfected over time, but soft skills are more difficult to acquire and change. The soft skills required for a doctor, for example, would be empathy, understanding, active listening, and a good bedside manner.



Alternatively, the hard skills necessary for a doctor would include a vast comprehension of illnesses, the ability to interpret test results and symptoms, and a thorough understanding of anatomy and physiology.


   Valuable Soft Skills for Employees  

Soft skills benefit businesses when they are practiced on a company-wide basis. For example, a collaborative spirit among workers is important. Team members who are able to work well with people of different generations and backgrounds are generally more productive and better able to focus on common priorities. Efficiency and output improve when workers collaborate by sharing knowledge and tools to get jobs done. The ability to learn new methods and technologies is also a desired soft skill for all workers.



Companies that value learning as a soft skill recognize various learning styles and encourage workers to pursue the methods that work best for them. Good troubleshooting is a soft skill that also is valuable to companies. For example, companies can operate more efficiently and increase productivity when all workers know how to troubleshoot software problems instead of relying on the information technology (IT) department for every fix.



Soft skills can also be thought of as people skills. These can include good communication and interpersonal skills, leadership, problem solving, your work ethic, time management, and teamwork. These are characteristics that can be carried over to any position.




What is the difference between a soft skill and a hard skill?
Hard skills are the measurable skills acquired through training, education, and practice. They are the abilities needed to perform a specific task or job. Soft skills are behavioral and interpersonal skills that relate to how effectively people interact with others and handle situations.




Why are soft skills important?
How well you interact and treat others is crucial for career success. Trust develops through positive interactions and relationships, and productivity increases in environments where soft skills flourish.




How do I improve soft skills?
Although not customarily acquired through formal training, soft skills can be learned. To improve soft skills, the person must be open to feedback and make decisions to change behaviors. Training can provide tips and strategies for developing better practices, such as active listening and empathizing with others. And practicing can strengthen areas where deficiencies exist.




What is soft skills training?
Soft skills training is training to help develop or improve interpersonal skills. It consists of lessons to improve communication, increase active listening, resolve conflicts, and more.
What Is Software as a Service (SaaS)?  

SaaS is a licensing model in which access to software is provided on a subscription basis, where the software is located on external servers rather than on servers located in-house.



Software as a Service is commonly accessed through a web browser, with users logging into the system using a username and password. Instead of each user having to install the software on their computer, the user can access the program via the internet.





Key Takeaways

Software as a Service (SaaS) is a software licensing model, which allows access to software on a subscription basis using external servers.SaaS allows each user to access programs via the Internet, instead of having to install the software on the user's computer.SaaS has many business applications, including file sharing, email, calendars, customer retention management, and human resources.SaaS is easy to implement, easy to update and debug, and can be less expensive than purchasing multiple software licenses for multiple computers.Drawbacks to the adoption of SaaS include data security, speed of delivery, and lack of control.


   Understanding Software as a Service (SaaS)  

The rise of SaaS coincided with the rise of cloud-based computing. Cloud computing offers technology services through the internet, which often includes access to data storage, networking, and servers.



Before SaaS, companies looking to update the software on their computers had to purchase compact disks containing the updates and download them onto their systems. For large organizations, updating software was a time-consuming endeavor.



With SaaS, users can log in through the internet or web browser and connect to the service provider’s network to access the particular service. Technology companies, financial services companies, entertainment, and utilities have led the business world in adopting SaaS technology.


   SaaS History and Characteristics  

SaaS can trace its origins to a concept called time-sharing, which was developed in the late 1950s and early 1960s to make more cost-effective use of expensive processor time.



As hardware and computing became less costly, organizations made the shift to individual ownership of personal computers using on-premise software but were impeded by ongoing software and hardware maintenance of the individual computers.



In the mid-90s, the growth of the Internet saw the inception of the "online cloud," which allowed organizations to access software from anywhere. By 1999, Salesforce became the forerunner in the SaaS space and both startups and industry giants including Microsoft, Oracle, and SAP were eager to move toward it.



The SaaS provider hosts the customer's software and delivers it to approved end users over the internet, giving customers network-based access to a single copy of an application that the provider created specifically for SaaS distribution. When new features or updates are released, they are then rolled out to all customers.



Today, SaaS is ubiquitous. With pure-play companies like Adobe, Salesforce, Shopify, and Intuit leading the way, the SaaS market is expected to reach $145 billion in 2022.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of SaaS  
  Advantages  

SaaS offers a variety of advantages over traditional software licensing models. Because the software does not live on the licensing company’s servers, there is less demand for the company to invest in new hardware. It is easy to implement, easy to update and debug, and can be less expensive than purchasing multiple software licenses for multiple computers.



SaaS has numerous applications, including email services, auditing functions, automating sign-up for products and services, managing documents, and Customer relationship management (CRM) systems, a database of client and prospect information. SaaS-based CRMs can be used to hold company contact information, business activity, product purchase history, and sales leads.



The SaaS model works well for enterprise-level services, such as human resources. These types of tasks are often collaborative, requiring employees from various departments to share, edit, and publish material while not in the same office.


  Disadvantages  

Drawbacks to the adoption of SaaS center around data security and speed of delivery. Because data is stored on external servers, companies must ensure it is safe and cannot be accessed by unauthorized parties.



Slow Internet connections can reduce performance, especially if the cloud servers are accessed from far distances. Internal networks tend to be faster than Internet connections. Due to its remote nature, SaaS solutions also suffer from a loss of control and a lack of customization.





SaaS Advantages

Accessible from anywhere
Cost effective
Easy to implement, update, and debug
Easy to scale



SaaS Disadvantages

Increased security risks
Slower speed
Loss of control
Lack of customization





   Examples of SaaS  

• Google Docs



Launched in 2021, Google Docs is Google's free online word processor where individuals just need to log in through a web browser for instant access. Google Docs allows you to write, edit, and even collaborate with others wherever you happen to be.



• Dropbox



Founded in 2007, Dropbox is a cloud storage service that lets businesses store, share, and collaborate on files and data. For example, users can back up and sync photos, videos, and other files to the cloud and access them from any device, no matter the location.



SaaS expanded and today supports home offices and entertainment daily as users log on to Netflix, Zoom, DocuSign, Adobe, Shopify, and Slack.


   SaaS Security  

As companies adopt cloud-based models for software products, concerns arise regarding security and privacy. Where management was once responsible for the updates on in-house software, corporations now must rely on third-party management of their encryption, identity and access management (IAM), data privacy, and downtime or incident response. They must also depend on an adequate level of communication with technical assistance.


   SaaS Pricing  

A SaaS product is commonly more cost-effective for a company than a traditional software license, as setup and installation are not needed. SaaS providers rely on subscription-based pricing models for customers such as tier-level pricing per person or group or a flat rate annual fee. Users may also choose an ad-based model where the SaaS earns revenue through advertising within the cloud space.


   SaaS vs. IaaS vs. PaaS  

"As a service" products fit into one of three main categories: SaaS, IaaS, and PaaS.



SaaS uses the Internet to deliver subscription software services, which are managed by a third-party vendor. Well-known SaaS examples include Dropbox, Google Workspace, and Salesforce.



Infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS) offers access to resources such as servers, storage, memory, and other services. It allows organizations to purchase resources as needed. Some common IaaS examples include Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, and Rackspace.



Platform-as-a-service (PaaS) provides a software development platform over the web. Specifically, it allows developers to concentrate on software creation without concern for storage and infrastructure.




What Is SaaS Marketing?
SaaS marketing utilizes standard marketing practices to promote and acquire leads for cloud-based software applications and information services.




What Is B2B SaaS?
B2B SaaS simply refers to companies that sell software services to other businesses. These products help organizations optimize a wide variety of functions including marketing, sales, and customer service.




How Is MRR Calculated for a SaaS Business?
Monthly recurring revenue (MRR) is an important metric for SaaS businesses that utilize a monthly subscription pricing model. The calculation of MRR is simple: multiply the average revenue per customer by the total number of accounts for that given month.


   The Bottom Line  

SaaS or Software as a Service uses cloud computing to provide users with access to a program via the Internet. Without having to install software in-house, SaaS allows each user to access programs typically through a subscription service. SaaS has many business applications, including file sharing, customer retention management, and human resources, and is used by applications such as Netflix, Slack, Dropbox, and Google Workspace.
What Is a Sole Proprietorship?  

A sole proprietorship is an unincorporated business that has just one owner who pays personal income tax on profits earned from the business. Many sole proprietors do business under their own names because creating a separate business or trade name isn’t necessary.



Also referred to as a sole trader or a proprietorship, a sole proprietorship is the easiest type of business to establish or take apart, due to a lack of government regulation. As such, they are very popular among sole owners of businesses, individual self-contractors, and consultants. Most small businesses start as sole proprietorships and either stay that way or expand and transition to a limited liability entity or corporation.





Key Takeaways

A sole proprietorship is an unincorporated business with only one owner who pays personal income tax on profits earned.Sole proprietorships are easy to establish and dismantle due to a lack of government involvement, making them popular with small business owners and contractors.Most small businesses start as sole proprietorships and end up transitioning to a limited liability entity or corporation as the company grows.One of the main disadvantages of sole proprietorships is that they do not have any government protection, as they are not registered. This means that all liabilities extend from the business to the owner.Sole proprietors report their income and expenses on their personal tax returns and pay income and self-employment taxes on their profits.


   Understanding a Sole Proprietorship  

If you want to start a one-owner business, the simplest and fastest way is through a sole proprietorship. Sole proprietorship begins when you begin conducting business. It doesn’t require filing federal or state forms and has few regulatory burdens, making it an ideal way for self-employed people to start out.



A sole proprietorship is very different from a corporation, a limited liability company (LLC), or a limited liability partnership (LLP), in that no separate legal entity is created. As a result, the business owner of a sole proprietorship is not exempt from liabilities incurred by the entity.



For example, the debts of the sole proprietorship are also the debts of the owner. However, the profits of the sole proprietorship are also the profits of the owner, as all profits flow directly to the business owner.












Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Sole Proprietorship  
  Advantages  

The main benefits of a sole proprietorship are the pass-through tax advantage, the ease of creation, and the low fees for creation and maintenance.



The tax benefits. Income generated from a pass-through business is only subject to a single layer of income tax and, in some cases, may be eligible for a 20% tax deduction. Along with slashing the corporate tax rate, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) of 2017 added a tax break for pass-through entities that essentially allows them to deduct up to 20% of qualified business income. That deduction can result in huge savings and runs until Jan. 1, 2026—unless extended by Congress.
With a sole proprietorship, you do not need to fill out a tremendous amount of paperwork, such as registering with your state. You may need to obtain a license or permit, depending on your state and type of business. But less paperwork allows you to get your business off the ground faster.
The tax process is simpler because you do not need to obtain an employer identification number (EIN) from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). You can obtain an EIN if you choose to, but you can also use your own Social Security number (SSN) to pay taxes rather than needing an EIN.
With a sole proprietorship, you also don’t need a business checking account, as other business structures are required to have. You can simply conduct all your finances through your personal account.





33.2 million

The number of small businesses in the United States in 2022. Together, these businesses employed 61.7 million people across the country.


  Disadvantages  

The following are some of the most common disadvantages of sole proprietorships.



When a business is registered, it has some legal protections. For example, a sole proprietorship provides no liability protection to the owner. By contrast, an LLC has protection against creditors seizing the owner’s personal assets, such as their home.
The unlimited liability that goes beyond the business to the owner and the difficulty in getting capital funding, specifically through established channels, such as issuing equity, bank loans, or lines of credit. Banks prefer to work with companies that have a track record and generally view those who are starting out with a small balance sheet as high-risk borrowers. Obtaining equity from large investors can also be difficult.





Pros

Less paperwork
No need to obtain an EIN from the IRS
Quick and easy setup compared with other business structures
Low fees and costs
Pass-through tax advantage
Easier banking



Cons

Unlimited liability goes from business to owner
Difficulty in raising capital





   How to Create a Sole Proprietorship  

It isn't very difficult to start a sole proprietorship. That's because there aren't the usual legal hurdles that you have to overcome with other types of business organizations. In most cases, starting the entity is as easy as establishing yourself as the owner and starting up. Depending on where you live, there are certain steps you can take to formally launch your sole proprietorship.



Get your business license and any permits you may need. Some states require that you apply for licenses (business or occupancy) as well as permits. Check with your state or county clerk to see if you need any special paperwork to begin your business.
You may need to register your business under its Doing Business As name if your state requires it. If this isn't the case, you can operate under an assumed name, which can usually just be your own. Keep in mind that there are legal ramifications if you choose to run your sole proprietorship under your name.
Apply for and obtain an EIN. This is an important and necessary step if you're going to have any employees or file tax returns. If this doesn't apply to you, you're able to use your own SSN. Either way, it's always a good idea to check with a tax advisor so you don't make any mistakes.






If you plan to hire employees, you will need an EIN from the IRS. If you are going to sell taxable products, you will need to register for a sales tax license with your state.


   Sole Proprietorship vs. LLC vs. Partnership  

As noted above, there are certain distinctions between a sole proprietorship and a limited liability company and a partnership. The chart below highlights some of the key differences between the three.












Sole Proprietorship 
LLC 
Partnership 


Establishment
Easy to establish, no paperwork unless required by the state
Must file articles of incorporation with the state 
May require contracts for each partner 


Business Name
Can operate under owner's or fictitious name or formally register under Doing Business As 
Established and secured  
Can operate under owner's or fictitious name or formally register under Doing Business As 


Liability
No legal protection, owner is fully liable
Protection for owners
No legal protection, owner fully liable


Taxation
Filed under owner's personal taxes if there is no EIN
Filed under owner's personal taxes for one ownerTreated as partnership for two or more owners
Filed under partnershipPartners declare income and losses from partnership on personal returns





   Transition from Sole Proprietor to LLC  

When a sole proprietor seeks to incorporate a business, the owner usually restructures it into an LLC. For this to work, the owner must first determine that the name of the company is available. If the desired name is free, articles of organization must be filed with the state office where the business will be based.



After the paperwork is filed, the business owner must create an LLC operating agreement, which specifies the business structure. Finally, the new company must obtain an EIN—similar to an SSN, but for businesses—from the IRS.






A sole proprietorship has no separation between the business entity and its owner, setting it apart from corporations and limited partnerships.


   Sole Proprietorship Tax Forms  

Sole proprietors report their income and expenses on their personal tax returns and pay income and self-employment taxes on their profits. The tax forms you may need to file could include the following:









Tax Forms for Sole Proprietorship




If you are liable for:
Use form:


Income tax
1040, U.S. Individual Income Tax Return or 1040-SR, U.S. Tax Return for Seniors and Schedule C (Form 1040 or 1040-SR), Profit or Loss from Business (Sole Proprietorship)


Self-employment tax
Schedule SE (Form 1040 or 1040-SR), Self-Employment Tax


Estimated tax
1040-ES, Estimated Tax for Individuals


Social Security and Medicare taxes and income tax withholding
941, Employer’s Quarterly Federal Tax Return; 943, Employer’s Annual Federal Tax Return for Agricultural Employees; 944, Employer’s Annual Federal Tax Return


Providing information on Social Security and Medicare taxes and income tax withholding
W-2, Wage and Tax Statement (to employee) and W-3, Transmittal of Wage and Tax Statements (to the Social Security Administration)


Federal unemployment (FUTA) tax
940, Employer’s Annual Federal Unemployment (FUTA) Tax Return



Source: Internal Revenue Service


   Example of a Sole Proprietorship  

Most small businesses start as sole proprietorships and evolve into different legal structures as time passes and the company grows.



For example, Kate Schade started her company, Kate’s Real Food, as a sole proprietor. The company creates and sells energy bars and began as a local vendor in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. The sole proprietorship currently has a production facility in Bedford, Pennsylvania, and can be found in more than 4,000 retailers.



Since launching in 2005, Kate’s Real Food has grown to supply accounts across the country. In response, Schade restructured the business from a sole proprietorship to a corporation to take on investments and expand, a natural step for a growing business.




How Do You Start a Sole Proprietorship?
To start a sole proprietorship, you generally have to launch your business. It is useful to choose a company name. Depending on your business and local regulations, you may need to apply for a permit or license with your city, county, or state. If you plan to hire employees, you will need an employee identification number from the IRS. If you are going to sell taxable products, you will need to register with your state for a sales tax license.




Is Being Sole Proprietorship the Same As Being Self-Employed?
Yes, being a sole proprietor is the same as being self-employed. A sole proprietor does not work for any company or boss, so they are self-employed.




How Do You File Taxes As a Sole Proprietor?
Filing taxes as a sole proprietor requires you to fill out the standard tax Form 1040 for individual taxes and Schedule C, which reports the profits and loss of your business. The amount of taxes you owe will be based on the combined income of both Form 1040 and Schedule C. If you have employees, there will be other forms to fill out.




Should I Form a Limited Liability Company or a Sole Proprietorship?
That depends on your business. A sole proprietorship is best suited to small businesses with low risk and low profits. Generally, these businesses don’t have a wide range of customers but rather a small, dedicated group. Sole proprietorships often start as hobbies that grow into a business.The reasons to start a limited liability company (LLC) are the opposite of the reasons above. The business entails some liability risks, has the potential for large profits and a large customer base, and is positioned to benefit from certain tax structures.




How Do You Convert a Sole Proprietorship to an LLC?
Converting a sole proprietorship to an LLC requires you to file articles of organization with your state secretary. Also, you will have to refile your DBA (or doing business as) to keep your company name. Lastly, you will need to obtain an EIN from the IRS.


   The Bottom Line  

A sole proprietorship is a straightforward way for an individual to start a business. It does not require registering with a state authority for most situations and does not require obtaining an EIN from the IRS.



The benefits of simplicity are accompanied by some drawbacks, including all liabilities being passed through from the business to the individual and funding being harder to come by. Those risks shouldn’t pose much of an issue initially. However, as the business grows, it may make sense to transition into a different legal structure.
What Is Solvency?  

Solvency is the ability of a company to meet its long-term debts and financial obligations. Solvency can be an important measure of financial health, since it's one way of demonstrating a company’s ability to manage its operations into the foreseeable future. The quickest way to assess a company’s solvency is by checking its shareholders’ equity on the balance sheet, which is the sum of a company’s assets minus liabilities.





Key Takeaways

Solvency is the ability of a company to meet its long-term debts and other financial obligations.Solvency is one measure of a company’s financial health, since it demonstrates a company’s ability to manage operations into the foreseeable future. Investors can use ratios to analyze a company's solvency.When analyzing solvency, it is typically prudent to conjunctively assess liquidity measures as well, particularly since a company can be insolvent but still generate steady levels of liquidity.







Solvency Ratio


   How Solvency Works  

Solvency portrays the ability of a business (or individual) to pay off its financial obligations. For this reason, the quickest assessment of a company’s solvency is its assets minus liabilities, which equal its shareholders’ equity. There are also solvency ratios, which can spotlight certain areas of solvency for deeper analysis.



Many companies have negative shareholders’ equity, which is a sign of insolvency. Negative shareholders’ equity insinuates that a company has no book value, and this could even lead to personal losses for small business owners if not protected by limited liability terms if a company must close. In essence, if a company was required to immediately close down, it would need to liquidate all of its assets and pay off all of its liabilities, leaving only the shareholders’ equity as a remaining value.






The shareholders’ equity on a company’s balance sheet can be a quick way to check a company’s solvency and financial health.



Carrying negative shareholders’ equity on the balance sheet is usually only common for newly developing private companies, startups, or recently offered public companies. As a company matures, its solvency position typically improves.



However, certain events may create an increased risk to solvency, even for well-established companies. In the case of business, the pending expiration of a patent can pose risks to solvency, as it will allow competitors to produce the product in question, and it results in a loss of associated royalty payments. Further, changes in certain regulations that directly impact a company’s ability to continue business operations can pose an additional risk. Both businesses and individuals may also experience solvency issues should a large judgment be ordered against them after a lawsuit.



When studying solvency, it is also important to be aware of certain measures used for managing liquidity. Solvency and liquidity are two different things, but it is often wise to analyze them together, particularly when a company is insolvent. A company can be insolvent and still produce regular cash flow as well as steady levels of working capital.


   Special Considerations: Solvency Ratios  

Assets minus liabilities is the quickest way to assess a company’s solvency. The solvency ratio calculates net income + depreciation and amortization / total liabilities. This ratio is commonly used first when building out a solvency analysis.



There are also other ratios that can help to more deeply analyze a company's solvency. The interest coverage ratio divides operating income by interest expense to show a company's ability to pay the interest on its debt. A higher interest coverage ratio indicates greater solvency. The debt-to-assets ratio divides a company's debt by the value of its assets to provide indications of capital structure and solvency health. 



Other ratios that may be analyzed when considering solvency include:



Debt to equityDebt to capitalDebt to tangible net worthTotal liabilities to equityTotal assets to equityDebt to EBITDA



Solvency ratio levels vary by industry, so it is important to understand what constitutes a good ratio for the company before drawing conclusions from the ratio calculations. Ratios that suggest lower solvency than the industry average could raise a flag or suggest financial problems on the horizon.












Investopedia / Dennis Madamba


   Solvency vs. Liquidity  

While solvency represents a company’s ability to meet all of its financial obligations, generally the sum of its liabilities, liquidity represents a company's ability to meet its short-term obligations. This is why it can be especially important to check a company’s liquidity levels if it has a negative book value.



One of the easiest and quickest ways to check on liquidity is by subtracting short-term liabilities from short-term assets. This is also the calculation for working capital, which shows how much money a company has readily available to pay its upcoming bills.



Short-term assets and short-term liabilities are those that have a one-year time frame. For example, cash and equivalents is a common short-term asset. Short-term accounts payable is a common short-term liability.



A company can survive with insolvency for a reasonable time period, but a company cannot survive without liquidity. Some interesting ratios that can be helpful in more deeply assessing liquidity can include:



Quick ratioCurrent ratioWorking capital turnover




How Is Solvency Determined?
There are several ways to figure a company's solvency ratio, but one of the most basic formulas is to subtract their liabilities from their assets. If there is still value after the liabilities have been subtracted, the company is considered solvent.




Are Solvency Ratios the Same for Every Company?
No. Solvency ratios vary from industry to industry. While companies should always strive to have more assets than liabilities, the margin for their surplus can change depending on their business.




Can a Company Survive if They Are Insolvent?
Some companies can survive for a time while being insolvent. Since their assets and liabilities tend to be long-term metrics, they may be able to operate the same as if they were solvent as long as they have liquidity. Liquidity is the capital that a company has to operate their business.
What Is a Solvency Ratio?  

A solvency ratio is a key metric used to measure an enterprise’s ability to meet its long-term debt obligations and is used often by prospective business lenders. A solvency ratio indicates whether a company’s cash flow is sufficient to meet its long-term liabilities and thus is a measure of its financial health. An unfavorable ratio can indicate some likelihood that a company will default on its debt obligations.





Key Takeaways

A solvency ratio examines a firm's ability to meet its long-term debts and obligations.The main solvency ratios include the debt-to-assets ratio, the interest coverage ratio, the equity ratio, and the debt-to-equity (D/E) ratio.Solvency ratios are often used by prospective lenders when evaluating a company's creditworthiness as well as by potential bond investors.Solvency ratios and liquidity ratios both measure a company's financial health but solvency ratios have a longer-term outlook than liquidity ratios.Like other financial ratios, solvency ratios often hold most value when compared over time or against other companies.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   Understanding Solvency Ratios  

A solvency ratio is one of many metrics used to determine whether a company can stay solvent in the long term. A solvency ratio is a comprehensive measure of solvency, as it measures a firm's actual cash flow, rather than net income, by adding back depreciation and other non-cash expenses to assess a company’s capacity to stay afloat.



It measures this cash flow capacity versus all liabilities, rather than only short-term debt. This way, a solvency ratio assesses a company's long-term health by evaluating its repayment ability for its long-term debt and the interest on that debt.



Solvency ratios vary from industry to industry. A company’s solvency ratio should, therefore, be compared with its competitors in the same industry rather than viewed in isolation.



A solvency ratio terminology is also used when evaluating insurance companies, comparing the size of their capital relative to the premiums written, and measures the risk an insurer faces on claims it cannot cover.






The main solvency ratios are the debt-to-assets ratio, the interest coverage ratio, the equity ratio, and the debt-to-equity (D/E) ratio. These measures may be compared with liquidity ratios, which consider a firm's ability to meet short-term obligations rather than medium- to long-term ones.


   Types of Solvency Ratios  
  Interest Coverage Ratio  

The interest coverage ratio is calculated as follows:








Interest Coverage Ratio


=



EBIT


Interest Expenses




\text{Interest Coverage Ratio}=\frac{\text{EBIT}}{\text{Interest Expenses}}


Interest Coverage Ratio=Interest ExpensesEBIT​



where:



EBIT = Earnings before interest and taxes



The interest coverage ratio measures how many times a company can cover its current interest payments with its available earnings. In other words, it measures the margin of safety a company has for paying interest on its debt during a given period.



The higher the ratio, the better. If the ratio falls to 1.5 or below, it may indicate that a company will have difficulty meeting the interest on its debts.


  Debt-to-Assets Ratio  

The debt-to-assets ratio is calculated as follows:








Debt-to-Assets Ratio


=



Debt


Assets




\text{Debt-to-Assets Ratio}=\frac{\text{Debt}}{\text{Assets}}


Debt-to-Assets Ratio=AssetsDebt​



The debt-to-assets ratio measures a company's total debt to its total assets. It measures a company's leverage and indicates how much of the company is funded by debt versus assets, and therefore, its ability to pay off its debt with its available assets. A higher ratio, especially above 1.0, indicates that a company is significantly funded by debt and may have difficulty meetings its obligations.


  Equity Ratio  

The shareholder equity ratio is calculated as follows:


















SER


=



TSE


Total assets










where:















SER
 ⁣

=
 ⁣

Shareholder equity ratio
















TSE
 ⁣

=
 ⁣

Total shareholder equity







\begin{aligned}&\text{SER}=\frac{\text{TSE}}{\text{Total assets}}\\\textbf{where:}\\&\text{SER}\!=\!\text{Shareholder equity ratio}\\&\text{TSE}\!=\!\text{Total shareholder equity}\end{aligned}


where:​SER=Total assetsTSE​SER=Shareholder equity ratioTSE=Total shareholder equity​



The equity ratio, or equity-to-assets, shows how much of a company is funded by equity as opposed to debt. The higher the number, the healthier a company is. The lower the number, the more debt a company has on its books relative to equity.


  Debt-to-Equity (D/E) Ratio  

The debt-to-equity (D/E) ratio is calculated as follows:








Debt to Equity Ratio


=



Debt Outstanding


Equity




\text{Debt to Equity Ratio}=\frac{\text{Debt Outstanding}}{\text{Equity}}


Debt to Equity Ratio=EquityDebt Outstanding​



The D/E ratio is similar to the debt-to-assets ratio, in that it indicates how a company is funded, in this case, by debt. The higher the ratio, the more debt a company has on its books, meaning the likelihood of default is higher. The ratio looks at how much of the debt can be covered by equity if the company needed to liquidate.






Don't just look at one ratio from one period; most financial ratios are able to tell more of a story when you look at the same ratio over time or look at the same ratio across similar companies.


   Solvency Ratios vs. Liquidity Ratios  

Solvency ratios and liquidity ratios are similar but have some important differences. Both of these categories of financial ratios will indicate the health of a company. The main difference is that solvency ratios offer a longer-term outlook on a company whereas liquidity ratios focus on the shorter term.



Solvency ratios look at all assets of a company, including long-term debts such as bonds with maturities longer than a year. Liquidity ratios, on the other hand, look at just the most liquid assets, such as cash and marketable securities, and how those can be used to cover upcoming obligations in the near term.



If an investor wants to know whether a company will be able to pay its bills next year, they are often most interested in looking at the liquidity of the company. If a company is illiquid, they won't be able to pay their short-term bills as they come due. On the other hand, investors more interested in a long-term health assessment of a company would want to loop in long-term financial aspects.


   Limitations of Solvency Ratios  

A company may have a low debt amount, but if its cash management practices are poor and accounts payable are surging as a result its solvency position may not be as solid as would be indicated by measures that include only debt.



It's important to look at a variety of ratios to comprehend the true financial health of a company, as well as understand the reason that a ratio is what it is. Furthermore, a number itself won't give much of an indication. A company needs to be compared to its peers, particularly the strong companies in its industry, to determine if the ratio is an acceptable one or not.



For example, an airline company will have more debt than a technology firm just by the nature of its business. An airline company has to buy planes, pay for hangar space, and buy jet fuel; costs that are significantly more than a technology company will ever have to face.


   Example of Solvency Ratios  

Below is a screenshot of Amazon's Q3 2022 financial position. At the end of September 30, 2022, Amazon had over $428 billion of total company assets:















Amazon Balance Sheet, Q3 2022.



One can get a sense of Amazon's solvency by comparing last year's debt-to-equity ratio to this year's ratio. Although total debt is not explicitly shown on the financial statement, it can easily be calculated as the difference between total assets and total stockholders' equity (both of which are shown). The ratios for each year are:



2021 D/E Ratio: $282,304 / $138,245 = 2.042022 D/E Ratio: $290,873 / $137,489 = 2.12



From these two calculations, one can assess that Amazon's long-term solvency increased, and the company's financial positioning is very slightly more risky from the end of December 2021 to the end of September 2022. This is because the company now has proportionally more debt on its books compared to equity.



In another example, Amazon's debt-to-assets ratio also increased. This should come as no surprise as the company was shown to have taken on more debt in comparison to equity, so all else being equal, the relationship between debt and total assets should have also changed.



2021 D/A Ratio: $282,304 / $420,549 = .672022 D/A Ratio: $290,873 / $428,362 = .68



This means that the company used to have $0.67 of debt for every $1 of assets. In other words, 67% of all company assets were financed through debt. Now, the company has taken on a little bit more debt, so 68% of company assets are financed through debt. Slight variations like this are often not a big deal, but more consistent long-term trends or radical changes from one period to the next should be of more concern to investors.




What Are Solvency Ratios?
A solvency ratio measures how well a company’s cash flow can cover its long-term debt. Solvency ratios are a key metric for assessing the financial health of a company and can be used to determine the likelihood that a company will default on its debt. Solvency ratios differ from liquidity ratios, which analyze a company’s ability to meet its short-term obligations. 




How Is a Solvency Ratio Calculated?
Solvency ratios measure a company’s cash flow, which includes non-cash expenses and depreciation, against all debt obligations. For instance, consider the debt-to-assets ratio, a popular metric that measures the degree that a company’s assets are financed by debt, where debt-to-assets equals total debt divided by total assets. Another common solvency ratio, the debt-to-equity (D/E) ratio, shows how financially leveraged a company is, where debt-to-equity equals total debt divided by total equity.




What Is the Difference Between a Solvency Ratio and a Liquidity Ratio?
Solvency ratios—also referred to as leverage ratios—analyze the impact on long-term obligations, and a company’s ability to continue operating over a longer horizon. By contrast, liquidity ratios look at two main objectives: a company’s ability to pay for short-term liabilities due under a year and the ability to quickly sell assets to raise cash.




Is a High Solvency Ratio Good?
A high solvency ratio is usually good as it means the company is usually in better long-term health compared to companies with lower solvency ratios. On the other hand, a solvency ratio that is too high may show that the company is not utilizing potentially low-cost debt as much as it should. While solvency is mostly used as a barometer of financial health and higher is good, it is also used to evaluate some of the operational efficiencies where higher is not always better.




Is Solvency the Same as Debt?
Solvency is related to debt, as solvency is the measurement of how well a company will be able to pay off its debts. In a lot of cases, it makes sense for a company to borrow money. In other cases, it may be cheaper to take on debt rather than issue stock. In the long-run, however, it is important that a company keeps track of its future obligations and whether it will be able to pay long-term debt as it comes due. Although solvency and debt are not the same thing, they are very closely related.


   The Bottom Line  

Solvency ratios are financial measurements that usually look at a company's total assets, total debt, or total equity to better understand the company's financing structure. This financial structure plays a critical part in knowing whether the company will be able to pay its long-term debts as they come due and have enough money in the long run. The most common solvency ratios are the debt-to-equity ratio, the debt-to-assets ratio, and and the interest coverage ratio.
What Is the Sortino Ratio?  

The Sortino ratio is a variation of the Sharpe ratio that differentiates harmful volatility from total overall volatility by using the asset's standard deviation of negative portfolio returns—downside deviation—instead of the total standard deviation of portfolio returns. The Sortino ratio takes an asset or portfolio's return and subtracts the risk-free rate, and then divides that amount by the asset's downside deviation. The ratio was named after Frank A. Sortino.


   Formula and Calculation of Sortino Ratio  

﻿















Sortino Ratio


=





R


p



−



r


f






σ


d



















where:

















R


p



=


Actual or expected portfolio return

















r


f



=


Risk-free rate

















σ


d



=


Standard deviation of the downside








\begin{aligned} &\text{Sortino Ratio} = \frac{ R_p - r_f }{ \sigma_d } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &R_p = \text{Actual or expected portfolio return} \\ &r_f = \text{Risk-free rate} \\ &\sigma_d = \text{Standard deviation of the downside} \\ \end{aligned}


​Sortino Ratio=σd​Rp​−rf​​where:Rp​=Actual or expected portfolio returnrf​=Risk-free rateσd​=Standard deviation of the downside​﻿





Key Takeaways

The Sortino ratio differs from the Sharpe ratio in that it only considers the standard deviation of the downside risk, rather than that of the entire (upside + downside) risk.Because the Sortino ratio focuses only on the negative deviation of a portfolio's returns from the mean, it is thought to give a better view of a portfolio's risk-adjusted performance since positive volatility is a benefit.The Sortino ratio is a useful way for investors, analysts, and portfolio managers to evaluate an investment's return for a given level of bad risk. 


   What the Sortino Ratio Can Tell You  

The Sortino ratio is a useful way for investors, analysts, and portfolio managers to evaluate an investment's return for a given level of bad risk. Since this ratio uses only the downside deviation as its risk measure, it addresses the problem of using total risk, or standard deviation, which is important because upside volatility is beneficial to investors and isn't a factor most investors worry about.


   Example of How to Use the Sortino Ratio  

Just like the Sharpe ratio, a higher Sortino ratio result is better. When looking at two similar investments, a rational investor would prefer the one with the higher Sortino ratio because it means that the investment is earning more return per unit of the bad risk that it takes on.



For example, assume Mutual Fund X has an annualized return of 12% and a downside deviation of 10%. Mutual Fund Z has an annualized return of 10% and a downside deviation of 7%. The risk-free rate is 2.5%. The Sortino ratios for both funds would be calculated as:



﻿















Mutual Fund X Sortino


=




1


2


%


−


2


.


5


%




1


0


%




=


0


.


9


5








\begin{aligned} &\text{Mutual Fund X Sortino} = \frac{ 12\% - 2.5\% }{ 10\% } = 0.95 \\ \end{aligned}


​Mutual Fund X Sortino=10%12%−2.5%​=0.95​﻿



﻿















Mutual Fund Z Sortino


=




1


0


%


−


2


.


5


%




7


%




=


1


.


0


7








\begin{aligned} &\text{Mutual Fund Z Sortino} = \frac{ 10\% - 2.5\% }{ 7\% } = 1.07 \\ \end{aligned}


​Mutual Fund Z Sortino=7%10%−2.5%​=1.07​﻿



Even though Mutual Fund X is returning 2% more on an annualized basis, it is not earning that return as efficiently as Mutual Fund Z, given their downside deviations. Based on this metric, Mutual Fund Z is the better investment choice.



While using the risk-free rate of return is common, investors can also use expected return in calculations. To keep the formulas accurate, the investor should be consistent in terms of the type of return.


   The Difference Between the Sortino Ratio and the Sharpe Ratio  

The Sortino ratio improves upon the Sharpe ratio by isolating downside or negative volatility from total volatility by dividing excess return by the downside deviation instead of the total standard deviation of a portfolio or asset.



The Sharpe ratio punishes the investment for good risk, which provides positive returns for investors. However, determining which ratio to use depends on whether the investor wants to focus on total or standard deviation, or just downside deviation.
What Is a Sovereign Wealth Fund (SWF)?  

A sovereign wealth fund is a state-owned investment fund comprised of money generated by the government, often derived from a country's surplus reserves. SWFs provide a benefit for a country's economy and its citizens.



The funding for a SWF can come from a variety of sources. Popular sources are surplus reserves from state-owned natural resource revenues, trade surpluses, bank reserves that may accumulate from budgeting excesses, foreign currency operations, money from privatizations, and governmental transfer payments.



In general, sovereign wealth funds usually have a targeted purpose. Some countries have sovereign wealth funds that can be similar to venture capital for the private sector.





Key Takeaways

A sovereign wealth fund is a state-owned investment fund.Sovereign wealth funds can be derived from a variety of sources and used for a variety of purposes.Acceptable investments in each SWF vary from fund to fund and country to country.


   Understanding Sovereign Wealth Funds  

Similar to any type of investment fund, SWFs have their own objectives, terms, risk tolerances, liability matches, and liquidity concerns. Some funds may prefer returns over liquidity and vice versa. Depending on the assets and objectives, sovereign wealth funds’ risk management can range from very conservative to a high tolerance for risk.


   Types of SWFs  

Traditional classifications of sovereign wealth funds include:



Stabilization fundsSavings or future generation fundsPublic benefit pension reserve fundsReserve investment fundsStrategic Development Sovereign Wealth Funds (SDSWF)Funds targeting specific industries (possibly emerging or distressed)Foreign currency reserve assets. (Some classifications may not consider these funds as SWFs.) Foreign currency reserve funds are powerful funds that may be used for specific governmental purposes and/or for helping to manage the trading power of a currency globally.


   Investment Terms  

The amount of money in a SWF is usually substantial. The acceptable investments included in each SWF vary from fund to fund and country to country. Countries can create or dissolve SWFs to match the needs of their population. Funds with liquidity concerns may limit investments to only very liquid public debt instruments. In some cases, sovereign wealth funds will invest directly in domestic industries. Liquidity, debt, and allocation balances can be some of the key factors in investment terms.



There can be a concern that SWFs have a political influence. Some of the most significant sovereign wealth funds are not entirely transparent about their investments and corporate governance practices.


   Real-World Examples  

The top five largest SWFs by assets as of August 2023 included:



Norway Government Pension Fund Global $1,477,729,733,526China Investment Corporation $1,350,863,000,000SAFE Investment Company $1,019,600,000,000Abu Dhabi Investment Authority $853,000,000,000Kuwait Investment Authority $803,000,000,000     Public Investment Fund $776,657,356,350  


  Norway Government Pension Fund Global  



70%

The 2022 allocation of Norway's sovereign wealth fund in equities.



Norway’s Government Pension Fund Global is the largest in the world. It was established in 1990 as the Government Petroleum Fund, with the initial purpose of creating a fund to hold surplus revenues from the country’s oil trade. In 2006 it changed its name to the Norway Government Pension Fund Global.



The Norway fund invests in equities, fixed income, and real estate. In 2022, it reported a return of -14.1%. In 2022, 70% of the fund was in equity, 3% in real estate, and 27% in fixed income.


  China Investment Corporation  

The China Investment Corporation is a $1.35 trillion SWF. This fund is used for managing a portion of the country’s foreign currency reserves. The Chinese Ministry of Finance established the China Investment Corporation in 2007 by issuing special bonds.


  Public Pensions  

The U.S. Social Security Trust Funds and the Government Pension Investment Fund Japan are the two largest government public pension funds in the world. The SWF Institute doesn’t include these in the pure SWF rankings.



The U.S. Social Security Trust Funds has $2.8 trillion in total assets. The Government Pension Investment Fund for Japan has $1.5 trillion in assets. These funds focus on helping a growing elderly population from funding through the current labor force.



The U.S. Social Security Trust Funds invest in special issue securities. The Japan GPIF is more diversified with allocations to domestic bonds, foreign bonds, domestic equities, and foreign equities.
What Are Special Drawing Rights (SDRs)?  

Special drawing rights (SDR) refer to an international type of monetary reserve currency created by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in 1969 that operates as a supplement to the existing money reserves of member countries. Created in response to concerns about the limitations of gold and dollars as the sole means of settling international accounts, SDRs augment international liquidity by supplementing the standard reserve currencies.





Key Takeaways

Special drawing rights (SDRs) are an artificial currency instrument created by the International Monetary Fund, which uses them for internal accounting purposes.The value of the SDR is calculated from a weighted basket of major currencies, including the U.S. dollar, the euro, Japanese yen, Chinese yuan, and the British pound.The SDR interest rate (SDRi) provides the basis for calculating the interest rate charged to member countries when they borrow from the IMF and paid to members for their remunerated creditor positions in the IMF.SDRs are allocated based on the quota amounts of each member country. The higher the quota amount, the larger the SDR allocation a country will receive. In general, stronger economies have higher quotas.SDRs can be used to exchange for other currencies, the repayment of loans, the payments of obligations, pledges, the payment of interest on loans, or paying for increases in quota amounts.


   Understanding Special Drawing Rights (SDRs)  

An SDR is essentially an artificial currency instrument used by the IMF and is built from a basket of important national currencies. The IMF uses SDRs for internal accounting purposes. SDRs are allocated by the IMF to its member countries and are backed by the full faith and credit of the member countries' governments. The makeup of the SDR is re-evaluated every five years. The current makeup of the SDR is represented by the following table and will be updated in July 2022:










Currency
Weights Determined in the 2015 Review
Fixed Number of Units of Currency for a 5-Year Period Starting Oct. 1, 2016


U.S. Dollar
41.73
0.58252


Euro
30.93
0.38671


Chinese Yuan
10.92
1.0174


Japanese Yen
8.33
11.900


Pound Sterling
8.09
0.085946






The SDR was formed with a vision of becoming a major element of international reserves, with gold and reserve currencies forming a minor incremental component of such reserves. This consisted of central bank or government reserves of gold and globally accepted foreign currencies that could be used to buy the local currency in foreign exchange markets to maintain a stable exchange rate.



However, the international supply of the U.S. dollar and gold—the two main reserve assets—wasn’t sufficient to support growth in global trade and the related financial transactions that were taking place. This prompted member countries to form an international reserve asset under the guidance of the IMF.



In 1973, a few years after the SDR was created, the Bretton Woods system imploded, moving major currencies to the floating exchange rate system. In time, international capital markets expanded considerably, enabling creditworthy governments to borrow funds. This saw many governments register exponential growth in their international reserves. These developments diminished the stature of the SDR as a global reserve currency.



Besides acting as an auxiliary reserve asset, and though its stature has diminished, the SDR is the unit of account for the IMF. Its value, which is summed up in U.S. dollars, is calculated from a weighted basket of major currencies: the Japanese yen, the U.S. dollar, the Chinese yuan, the pound sterling, and the euro.


   Allocation of Special Drawing Rights (SDRs)  

The allocation of SDRs to each member country is based on the member's IMF quota shares. The stronger a country's economy, the higher quota shares it has. For example, the United States has 82,994 shares, while Afghanistan has 323 shares.



The more quota shares that a country has, the more it pays into the IMF, which comes with greater voting power. The SDR share of emerging market and developing economies is approximately 42.2%. Of this amount, 3.2% is for low-income countries.



Under the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund, the IMF may allocate SDRs to members under certain conditions. For a general allocation of SDRs to occur, the allocation must meet the IMF's goal of "meeting the long-term global need to supplement existing reserve assets." The allocation must also receive an 85% majority approval of the total voting power of members in the SDR Department.






To date, SDR 660.7 billion has been allocated, which is equal to approximately $943 billion.



On Aug. 2, 2021, the IMF allocated $650 billion of SDRs; the largest in its history. The reason was to boost global liquidity during the Coronavirus pandemic.



After SDRs have been allocated to each country, they have a few options on how they can manage them. They can hold the allocated SDRs as part of their foreign exchange reserves, sell their reserves, or use their reserves. For example, a member country can exchange an SDR for a freely usable currency.



Members can also use SDRs for other reasons, such as the repayment of loans, payments of obligations, pledges, the payment of interest on loans, or paying for increases in quota amounts.


   Requirements of Special Drawing Rights (SDRs)  

The current requirements to be included in the SDR were established in 2000.



The Board states that the SDR basket is to comprise of the currencies of members or monetary unions "whose exports had the largest value over a five-year period, and have been determined by the IMF to be freely usable."



"Freely usable," according to the IMF, is a currency that "(i) is, in fact, widely used to make payments for international transactions, and (ii) is widely traded in the principal exchange markets."



Determining what is "freely usable" is gauged on metrics such as the number of shares of the currency in reserve holdings, the currency denomination of international debt securities, the volume of transactions in foreign exchange markets, cross-border payments, and trade finance.


   Settling Claims With Special Drawing Rights (SDRs)  

The SDR isn’t regarded as a currency or a claim against the IMF assets. Instead, it is a prospective claim against the freely usable currencies that belong to the IMF member states. The Articles of Agreement of the IMF define a freely usable currency as one that is widely used in international transactions and is frequently traded in foreign exchange markets.



The IMF member states that hold SDRs can exchange them for freely usable currencies by either agreeing among themselves to voluntary swaps or by the IMF instructing countries with stronger economies or larger foreign currency reserves to buy SDRs from the less-endowed members. IMF member countries can borrow SDRs from reserves at favorable interest rates, mostly to adjust their balance of payments to favorable positions.


   Interest Rates on Special Drawing Rights (SDRs)  

The interest rate on SDRs, or the SDRi, provides the basis for calculating the interest rate that is charged to member countries when they borrow from the IMF and paid to members for their remunerated creditor positions in the IMF. It is also the interest paid to member countries on their own SDR holdings and charged on their SDR allocation.



The SDRi is determined weekly based on a weighted average of representative interest rates on short-term government debt instruments in the money markets of the SDR basket currencies, with a floor of five basis points. It is posted on the IMF website.




How Many Currencies Make Up an SDR?
The value of an SDR is made up of five currencies, which are the U.S. dollar, euro, Chinese yuan, Japanese yen, and pound sterling.




How Much Is a Special Drawing Right Worth?
The value or worth of an SDR is calculated daily and is based on the weights of the currencies that make up the SDR basket: U.S. dollar (41.73%), euro (30.93%), Chinese yuan (10.92%), Japanese yen (8.33%), and pound sterling (8.09%). The value of the SDR is arrived at by summing up in U.S. dollars the value of these currencies.




Can SDRs Replace the Dollar?
SDRs are considered to be an international reserve currency, and as such, could technically replace the dollar in terms of global transactions; however, given the strength and wide use of the dollar internationally, this is not likely to happen any time soon.




Why Is an SDR Called Paper Gold?
An SDR is called paper gold because at the time of its creation it was viewed as an asset that could act as a reserve asset that would supplement gold reserves and other currencies, thus the name, paper gold.
What Is a Special Economic Zone (SEZ)?  

A special economic zone (SEZ) is an area in a country that is designed to generate positive economic growth. An SEZ is normally subject to different and more favorable economic regulations compared to other regions in the same country, including tax incentives and the opportunity to pay lower tariffs. SEZ economic regulations tend to be conducive to—and attract—foreign direct investment (FDI). FDI refers to any investment made by a firm or individual in one country into business interests located in another country.





Key Takeaways

A special economic zone is an area in a country that is subject to different economic regulations than other regions within the same country.The economic regulations of special economic zones (SEZs) tend to be conducive to—and attract—foreign direct investment.Special economic zones are typically created in order to facilitate rapid economic growth by leveraging tax incentives to attract foreign investment and spark technological advancement.While many countries have set up special economic zones. China has been the most successful in using SEZs to attract foreign capital.


   Understanding How Special Economic Zones (SEZs)  

Special economic zones are special areas designated within a country that have different business and trade regulations. They are normally established to facilitate rapid economic growth and development in certain geographic regions.



Economic growth may come locally, regionally, and/or internationally. The growth that results from special economic zones is accomplished by leveraging tax incentives as a way of attracting foreign dollars through FDI and technological advancement.



SEZs may increase export levels for the implementing country and other countries that supply it with intermediate products. However, there is a risk that countries may abuse the system and use it to retain protectionist barriers in the form of taxes and fees. SEZs can also create a high level of bureaucracy due to their regulatory requirements. This can have the effect of funneling money away from the system, making it less efficient.



Types of SEZs include free-trade zones, industrial parks, and specialized zones. We go into more detail about these and other types of SEZs below.






While there are benefits for businesses, individuals, or entities operating within an SEZ, the macroeconomic and socioeconomic benefits for a country using an SEZ strategy are subject to debate.


   History of Special Economic Zones (SEZs)  

The first SEZs appeared in the late 1950s in industrialized countries. They were designed to attract foreign investment from multinational corporations. The first was at Shannon Airport in Clare, Ireland. In the 1970s, SEZs were also established in Latin American and East Asian countries. The most successful SEZs to date have been in China.



There were more than 7,000 SEZs as of 2022, according to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. They are found in every part of the world—notably in developing and transitional economies that use them as a tool for industrialization.


   Types of Special Economic Zones (SEZs)  

As noted above, there are a number of different types of special economic zones. The following are some of the most common categories.



Free-Trade Zone: Free-trade zones are specially secured areas that are designated for the processing of imported and exported goods. Also called commercial-free or foreign-trade zones, these areas involve special customs procedures and duty-free treatment.
Export Processing Zone: These zones are generally meant for commercial and industrial exports. The goal is to encourage economic growth through foreign investment. Export processing zones offer certain benefits, such as tax and import duty exemptions, and little to no barriers.
Industrial Park: As the name suggests, industrial areas or parks are designed to be used for industrial instead of commercial or residential purposes. Tax-related incentives are common benefits for those that use these special zones.
Specialized Zone: Some of the most common uses for these areas include technology hubs, airport-based zones, and logistics parks.


   Example of Special Economic Zones (SEZs)  

While many countries have set up SEZs, China has been the most successful in using SEZs to attract foreign capital. The first four SEZs in China were created in 1979 in the Southeastern coastal region: Shenzhen, Zhuhai, and Shantou in Guangdong province, and Xiamen in Fujian province.



China added Hainan Island to its list of SEZs in 1983. The success of the original SEZs prompted the government to create 14 open coastal cities in 1984. These cities enjoy similar benefits as SEZs such as the power to approve investment projects, offer incentives to foreign investors, and import equipment and technology tax-free.



Within China, the SEZs essentially act as liberal economic environments that promote innovation and advancement. The Chinese government continues to allow these areas to offer tax incentives to foreign investors as a way of further developing the infrastructure of these regions.



Mainstream economists agree that the country's SEZs helped to liberalize the formerly traditional state. Without the SEZs, China may not have been able to successfully implement the same level of national reform.




What Are Some of the Characteristics of Special Economic Zones?
Special economic zones are designed to create and boost economic growth. One of their main goals is to capitalize on foreign direct investment. SEZs are specially designated areas that are clearly defined with physical barriers and management is done by a single authority. Users and investors within SEZs can take advantage of certain benefits, including favorable regulations and taxation.




What Are Some Common Types of Special Economic Zones?
Some of the most common types of special economic zones are free-trade zones, export processing zones, industrial parks, and specialized zones. Many of these offer users tax incentives, such as exemption on duties and other fees, and access to foreign direct investment.




Why Did China Create Special Economic Zones?
Special economic zones are found all around the world. But some of the most successful ones are found in China. The country started to develop SEZs in the 1980s as a way to boost economic growth in order to take advantage of global capital as foreign firms and investors showed interest in the country's economic potential. The federal government revitalized existing SEZs and established new ones in the 1990s to continue fueling this growth.


   The Bottom Line  

Special economic zones are widely used around the world as a way to boost economic growth. These areas are specially designed zones that promote investment, primarily through foreign dollars. SEZs provide incentives, such as favorable tax and tariff regulations. Some of the most common types of SEZs include free-trade zones and industrial parks, which you've probably come across in many major cities across the country.
What Is a Special Power of Attorney?  

A special power of attorney is a legal document that authorizes one person, called an agent or an attorney in fact, to act on behalf of another person, known as the principal, under specific, clearly laid-out circumstances.



Also known as a limited power of attorney (LPOA), a special power of attorney allows an individual to give another person the ability to make certain legal or financial decisions on their behalf.





Key Takeaways

A special power of attorney allows a person (the principal) to authorize another individual (the agent) to make legal decisions on their behalf.The agent can act on behalf of the principal only under specific, clearly defined circumstances.A general power of attorney is broader, giving the agent the ability to make all legal and financial decisions on behalf of the principal.


   Understanding Special Power of Attorney  

A power of attorney refers to an agreement between two individuals that allows one individual to act on the other's behalf. For example, you might want a power of attorney if you are out of the country and unable to carry out a business transaction yourself, or if your abilities are limited by a medical condition. The person who initiates a power of attorney, whether in oral or written form, is referred to as the grantor or principal. The authorized individual named in the agreement is referred to as the attorney in fact or agent. In the case of a special power of attorney, the actions that the agent can take are limited to very specific circumstances.



Because this type of power of attorney is limited to what has been laid out in the signed document, it is particularly important that the principal is very clear about the powers that they want the agent to have. Additionally, the principal may create more than one special power of attorney, naming a different individual in each one.


   General Power of Attorney vs. Special Power of Attorney  

While a special power of attorney gives the agent authority for a limited set of actions under a restricted set of circumstances—such as buying or selling a home, withdrawing money from an account, or running a business—a general power of attorney is more broad.



A general power of attorney grants the agent the legal right to make all financial and legal decisions on behalf of the principal. An individual who will be out of the country for a year may give an agent extensive powers to carry out transactions such as personal and business financial transactions, bill payments, life insurance purchases, charitable donations, real estate management, and the filing of tax returns.






A special power of attorney may need to be notarized to have legal authority.


   Special Considerations  

A power of attorney becomes ineffective if its principal dies or becomes incapacitated, meaning the principal is unable to grant such power due to an injury or mental illness. However, a special power of attorney can be made durable.



A durable power of attorney is one that authorizes the agent to continue acting on behalf of the principal even after the principal becomes incapacitated, for instance, due to a head injury or Alzheimer’s disease. Under a durable power of attorney, the authority of the agent to act and make decisions on behalf of the principal continues until the principal's death. For an individual who does not already have a durable power of attorney in place and does not have the capacity to execute a special power of attorney, the court will impose a conservatorship or a guardianship to act on their behalf.



When an individual passes away, the special power of attorney becomes void, and a last will and testament takes precedence.
What Is a Special Purpose Acquisition Company (SPAC)?  

A special purpose acquisition company (SPAC) is a company without commercial operations and is formed strictly to raise capital through an initial public offering (IPO) for the purpose of acquiring or merging with an existing company.



Also known as blank check companies, SPACs have existed for decades, but their popularity has soared in recent years. In 2020, 247 SPACs were created with $80 billion invested, and in 2021, there were a record 613 SPAC IPOs. By comparison, only 59 SPACs came to market in 2019.





Key Takeaways

A special purpose acquisition company (SPAC) is formed to raise money through an initial public offering (IPO) to buy another company.At the IPO, SPACs do not have business operations or stated targets for acquisition.SPAC shares are structured as trust units with a par value of $10 per share.Investors in SPACs range from prominent private equity funds and celebrities to the general public.SPACs have two years to complete an acquisition or they must return funding to investors.












Lara Antal / Investopedia


   How Does a Special Purpose Acquisition Company (SPAC) Work?  

SPACs are commonly formed by investors or sponsors with expertise in a particular industry or business sector, and they pursue deals in that area. SPAC founders may have an acquisition target in mind, but they don’t identify that target to avoid disclosures during the IPO process.



Called “blank check companies,” SPACs provide IPO investors with little information prior to investing. SPACs seek underwriters and institutional investors before offering shares to the public. During a 2020–2021 boom period for SPACs, they attracted prominent names such as Goldman Sachs, Credit Suisse, and Deutsche Bank, in addition to retired or semiretired senior executives.



The funds that SPACs raise in an IPO are placed in an interest-bearing trust account that cannot be disbursed except to complete an acquisition. In the event it is unable to complete an acquisition, funds will be returned and the SPAC will ultimately be liquidated.



A SPAC has two years to complete a deal or face liquidation. In some cases, some of the interest earned from the trust can serve as the SPAC’s working capital. After an acquisition, a SPAC is usually listed on one of the major stock exchanges.






In 2019, SPAC IPOs raised $13.6 billion. This was more than four times the $3.5 billion they raised in 2016. Interest in SPACs increased in 2020 and 2021, with as much as $83.4 billion raised in 2020 and $162.5 billion in 2021. As of March 13, 2022, SPACs have raised $9.6 billion.


   What Are the Advantages of a SPAC?  

SPACs offer advantages for companies planning to go public. The route to public offering using a SPAC may take a few months, while a conventional IPO process can take anywhere from six months to more than a year.



Additionally, the owners of the target company may be able to negotiate a premium price when selling to a SPAC due to the limited time window to commence a deal. Being acquired by or merging with a SPAC that is sponsored by prominent financiers and business executives provides the target company with experienced management and enhanced market visibility.



The popularity of SPACs in 2020 may have been triggered by the global COVID-19 pandemic, as many companies chose to forego conventional IPOs because of market volatility and uncertainty.


   What Are the Risks of a SPAC?  

An investor in a SPAC IPO trusts that promoters are successful in acquiring or merging with a suitable target company in the future. However, there exists a reduced degree of oversight from regulators and a lack of disclosure from the SPAC, burdening retail investors with the risk that the investment may be overhyped or even fraudulent.


  Subpar Returns  

Returns from SPACs may not meet expectations offered during the promotion stage. Strategists at Goldman Sachs noted in September 2021 that of the 172 SPACs that had closed a deal since the start of 2020, the median SPAC had outperformed the Russell 3000 index from its IPO to deal announcement. However, six months after deal closure, the median SPAC had underperformed the Russell 3000 index by 42 percentage points.



As many as 70% of SPACs that had their IPO in 2021 were trading below their $10 offer price by the end of that year, according to a Renaissance Capital strategist. This downward trend could signal that the SPAC bubble that some market experts had predicted may be bursting.






Former President Donald Trump’s conservative Truth Social app was brought public via a SPAC known as Digital World Acquisition Corp. (DWAC). After initially rising to around $100 per share after the deal was announced in the spring of 2022, DWAC shares were trading sharply lower at just around $18 toward the end of 2022.


  Unfulfilled Deals  

One risk to investing in a SPAC is that even if they identify a company to acquire, the deal may not end up going through. According to industry reports, more than 55 supposed SPAC deals worth tens of billions of dollars ended up being terminated in 2022, with an additional 65 SPAC sponsors shutting down entirely.



There are any number of reasons why a SPAC deal might fail.



The SPAC may not be able to find a suitable acquisition target in time. This can happen if the SPAC’s management team is not able to identify a private company that fits the investment criteria outlined in the SPAC’s prospectus, or if the private company is not interested in being acquired by the SPAC.
The SPAC’s management team may not be able to negotiate favorable terms for the acquisition, such as the purchase price or the structure of the deal.
The SPAC may not be able to raise enough capital through the IPO to fund the acquisition. This can happen if there is not enough investor interest in the SPAC, or if market conditions are unfavorable.
Finally, the SPAC deal can fail if the acquisition is not approved by the SPAC’s shareholders or by regulatory authorities.



Because of how SPACs are structured, investors typically get back the par value of the shares (usually $10 per share) but may lose out if they buy shares at higher prices in anticipation of closing a deal. Indeed, investors are only entitled to the pro rata share of the trust account and not the price at which SPAC shares are bought on the market. 


  Scam Alerts  

Though popular in recent years, SPACs face new accounting regulations issued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as of April 2021, causing new SPAC filings to plummet in the second quarter from the record levels of 2021’s first quarter.



Many celebrities, including entertainers and professional athletes, became so heavily invested in SPACs that the SEC issued an Investor Alert in March 2021, cautioning investors not to make investment decisions based solely on celebrity involvement.



By early 2022, SPACs decreased in popularity due to increased regulatory oversight and less-than-expected performance.


   Real-World Examples of SPACs  

Richard Branson’s Virgin Galactic was a high-profile deal involving special purpose acquisition companies. Venture capitalist Chamath Palihapitiya’s SPAC Social Capital Hedosophia Holdings bought a 49% stake in Virgin Galactic for $800 million before listing the company in 2019.



In 2020, Bill Ackman, founder of Pershing Square Capital Management, sponsored his own and the largest-ever SPAC: Pershing Square Tontine Holdings, which raised $4 billion in its offering on July 22, 2020. In August 2021, Ackman planned to liquidate the SPAC, but as of 2022, the SPAC has not been liquidated with efforts still under way to find a deal.




How can an individual invest in a special purpose acquisition company (SPAC)?
Most retail investors cannot invest in promising privately held companies. However, SPACs are a way for public investors to now partner with investment professionals and venture capital firms. Exchange-traded funds (ETFs) that invest in SPACs have emerged, and these funds typically include some mix of companies that recently went public by merging with a SPAC and SPACs that are still searching for a target to take public. As with all investments, depending on the specific details of a SPAC investment, there will be different levels of risk.




What are some prominent companies that have gone public through a SPAC?
Some of the best-known companies to have become publicly listed by merging with a SPAC are digital sports entertainment and gaming company DraftKings (DKNG); aerospace and space travel company Virgin Galactic (SPCE); energy storage innovator QuantumScape (QS); and real estate platform Opendoor Technologies (OPEN).




What happens if a SPAC does not merge?
SPACs have a specific time frame in which they need to merge with another company and close a deal. This time frame is usually 18 to 24 months. If a SPAC cannot merge during the allotted time, then it liquidates and all funds are returned to investors.


   The Bottom Line  

A special purpose acquisition company (SPAC) is a type of investment vehicle that is created with the purpose of raising capital through an initial public offering (IPO) to acquire a private company. SPACs are sometimes called “blank check companies” because they are formed without a specific acquisition target in mind.



Once the SPAC has raised sufficient capital through the IPO, it uses the funds to search for and acquire a private company, which is then taken public through a reverse merger. This allows the private company to access the public markets and raise additional capital without going through the traditional IPO process. While a popular alternative to traditional IPOs, the SPAC market has seemed to sour in recent years.
What Is a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV)?  

A special purpose vehicle, also called a special purpose entity (SPE), is a subsidiary created by a parent company to isolate financial risk. Its legal status as a separate company makes its obligations secure even if the parent company goes bankrupt. For this reason, a special purpose vehicle is sometimes called a bankruptcy-remote entity.



If accounting loopholes are exploited, these vehicles can become a financially devastating way to hide company debt, as seen in 2001 in the Enron scandal.





Key Takeaways

An SPV is created as a separate company with its own balance sheet by a corporation in order to isolate financial risk.It may be used to undertake a risky venture while reducing any negative financial impact upon the parent company and its investors.Alternatively, the SPV may be a holding company for the securitization of debt.SPVs are also used by venture capitalists to consolidate a pool of capital to invest in a startup.SPVs have been used in the past by companies to hide financial losses.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Understanding Special Purpose Vehicles (SPVs)  

A parent company creates an SPV to isolate or securitize assets in a separate company that is often kept off the balance sheet. It may be created in order to undertake a risky project while protecting the parent company from the most severe risks of its failure.



In other cases, the SPV may be created solely to securitize debt so that investors can be assured of repayment.



In any case, the operations of the SPV are limited to the acquisition and financing of specific assets, and the separate company structure serves as a method of isolating the risks of these activities. An SPV may serve as a counterparty for swaps and other credit-sensitive derivative instruments.



A company may form the SPV as a limited partnership, a trust, a corporation, or a limited liability corporation, among other options. It may be designed for independent ownership, management, and funding. In any case, SPVs help companies securitize assets, create joint ventures, isolate corporate assets, or perform other financial transactions.



In venture capitalism, SPVs are used by a group of investors to pool their assets in order to launch a new business or invest in a startup. SPVs typically make just one investment into a business whereas an investment fund would make multiple investments over a period of time.


   Financials of an SPV  

The financials of an SPV may not appear on the parent company's balance sheet as equity or debt. Instead, its assets, liabilities, and equity will be recorded only on its own balance sheet.






An investor should always check the financials of any SPV before investing in a company. Remember Enron!



Thus, the SPV may mask crucial information from investors, who are not getting a full view of a company’s financial situation. Investors need to analyze the balance sheet of the parent company and the SPV before deciding whether to invest in a business.


   How Enron Used SPVs  

The massive financial collapse in 2001 of Enron Corp., a supposedly booming energy company based in Houston, is a prime example of the misuse of an SPV.



Enron's stock was rising rapidly, and the company transferred much of the stock to a special purpose vehicle, taking cash or a note in return. The special purpose vehicle then used the stock for hedging assets that were held on the company’s balance sheet.



To reduce risk, Enron guaranteed the special purpose vehicle's value. When Enron's stock price dropped, the values of the special purpose vehicles followed, and the guarantees were forced into play.



Enron's misuse of SPVs was by no means the only accounting trick perpetrated by Enron, but it may have been the greatest contributor to its abrupt fall. Enron could not pay the huge sums it owed creditors and investors, and financial collapse followed quickly.



Before the end, the company disclosed its financial information on balance sheets for the company and the special purpose vehicles. Its conflicts of interest were there for all to see; however, few investors delved deep enough into the financials to grasp the gravity of the situation.




What Are Special Purpose Vehicles Used for?
A special purpose vehicle (SPV) is a subsidiary company that is formed to undertake a specific business purpose or activity. SPVs are commonly utilized in certain structured finance applications, such as asset securitization, joint ventures, property deals, or to isolate parent company assets, operations, or risks. While there are many legitimate uses for establishing SPVs, they have also played a role in several financial and accounting scandals.




Do an SPV's Assets and Liabilities Appear on the Parent Company's Balance Sheet?
No. Special purpose vehicles have their own obligations, assets, and liabilities outside the parent company. SPVs can, for example, issue bonds to raise additional capital at more favorable borrowing rates than the parent could. They also create a benefit by achieving off-balance sheet treatment for tax and financial reporting purposes for a parent company.




What Are the Mechanics of an SPV?
The SPV itself acts as an affiliate of a parent corporation, which sells assets off of its own balance sheet to the SPV. The SPV becomes an indirect source of financing for the original corporation by attracting independent equity investors to help purchase debt obligations. This is most useful for large credit risk items, such as subprime mortgage loans.Not all SPVs are structured the same way. In the United States, SPVs are often limited liability corporations (LLCs). Once the LLC purchases the risky assets from its parent company, it normally groups the assets into tranches and sells them to meet the specific credit risk preferences of different types of investors.




Why Would a Company Form an SPV?
There are several reasons why SPVs are created. They provide protection for a parent company's assets and liabilities, as well as protection against bankruptcy and insolvency. These entities can also get an easy way to raise capital. SPVs also have more operational freedom because they aren't burdened with as many regulations as the parent company.




What Is the Function of SPVs in Public-Private Partnerships?
Public-private partnerships are collaborations between a government agency and a privately owned company. Many private partners in public-private partnerships demand a special purpose vehicle as part of the arrangement. This is especially true for capital-intensive endeavors, such as an infrastructure project. The private company might not want to take on too much financial exposure, so an SPV is created to absorb some of the risks.


   The Bottom Line  

A special purpose vehicle is a subsidiary created by a parent company for a variety of purposes. The SPV can be used to isolate financial risk, securitize assets, and perform separate financial transactions.



SPVs have been used in the past to alter company financials and misrepresent their financial health. It's critical to analyze SPVs along with other aspects of a company's financial statements before making any investments.
What Is a Special Warranty Deed?  

A special warranty deed is a deed to real estate where the seller of the property—known as the grantor—warrants only against anything that occurred during their physical ownership. In other words, the grantor doesn't guarantee against any defects in clear title that existed before they took possession of the property.





Key Takeaways

A special warranty deed is a deed in which the seller of a piece of property only warrants against problems or encumbrances in the property title that occurred during his ownership.A special warranty deed guarantees two things: The grantor owns, and can sell, the property; and the property incurred no encumbrances during his ownership.A special warranty deed is more limited than the more common general warranty deed, which covers the entire history of the property.Both general warranty deeds and special warranty deeds provide the same general protections for the buyer.The primary difference between a special warranty and a general warranty deed is how they deal with the timeframe of protection given to title ownership.


   How a Special Warranty Deed Works  

Special warranty deeds are most commonly used with commercial property transactions. Single-family and other residential property transactions will usually use a general warranty deed. Many mortgage lenders insist upon the use of the general warranty deed.



Special warranty deeds go by many names in different states, including covenant deed, grant deed, and limited warranty deed. The guarantee covers only the period when the seller held title to the property with a special warranty deed. Special warranty deeds do not protect against mistakes in a free-and-clear title that may exist before the seller's ownership.



Thus, the grantor of a special warranty deed is only liable for debts, problems, or other encumbrances to the title that they caused during their property ownership. The grantee assumes responsibility for any issues that arise from the previous owners.


   General Warranty Deed  

A warranty deed provides the transfer of ownership or title to commercial or residential real estate property and comes with certain guarantees made by the seller. These guarantees include that the property title is being transferred free-and-clear of ownership claims, outstanding liens or mortgages, or other encumbrances by individuals or entities other than the seller.



A general warranty deed covers the property's entire history and guarantees that the property is free and clear from defects or encumbrances, whether they happened or under whose ownership. The general warranty deed assures the buyer they are obtaining full ownership rights without valid potential legal issues with the title.






The general warranty deed is the most common and preferred type of instrument used to transfer real estate titles in the United States.


   Special Warranty Deed vs. General Warranty Deed  

A special warranty deed—also known as a limited warranty deed—is a variation of the general warranty deed. While the word "special" may communicate to a buyer the idea that the deed is of higher quality, the special warranty deed is less comprehensive. It offers less protection due to the limited timeframe it covers. In residential property, special warranty deeds are frequently used in foreclosures and the forced sale of the property to satisfy a debt.



As an example, imagine a home that has had two previous owners before you. The first owner was a hoarder, and soon the house and yard fell into disrepair. The city's code enforcement department issued fines against the owner, which were attached to the property. The owner fell behind on their mortgage, and the bank foreclosed, selling the home to the second owner.



To the pleasure of the neighborhood, the new owner fixed the house and cleaned the yard. After 10 years, they put the home on the market, and you buy it using a special warranty deed. A few years later, you decide to sell the house. However, because the code enforcement liens remain against the property, they could encumber your sale. At the very least, you will need to satisfy the city's lien to free the title.


   Similarities Between General Warranty Deeds and Special Warranty Deeds  

Both the general and special warranty deeds identify:



The name of the seller—the grantor
The name of the buyer—the grantee
The physical location of the property
The property is free of debt or encumbrances other than those noted in the deed
The grantor warrants that they are the rightful owner of the property and have a legal right to transfer the title
The grantor warrants that the property is free and clear of all liens and that there are no outstanding claims on the property from any creditor using it as collateral
There is a guarantee that the title would withstand any third-party claims to ownership of the property.
The grantor will do whatever is necessary to make good the grantee’s title to the property





Pros

Special warranties allow the transfer of property title between seller and buyer.
The purchase of title insurance can mitigate the risk of prior claims to the special warranty deed.
It is useful for buying a house in foreclosure.



Cons

Special warranty deeds provide narrow protection for the grantees or buyers.
Special warranty deeds cover only the period of ownership of the grantor or seller.
Special warranty deeds are not often used for residential properties





   Example of Special Warranty Deed  

Although general warranty deeds are more common in residential real estate transactions, there is one area where the special warranty deed becomes the norm. This one arena is for foreclosed properties, real-estate-owned (REO), or short-sold properties.



Most Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA), Housing and Urban Development (HUD), and bank-owned residences sell using this sort of deed. Perhaps one primary reason for the use of special warranty deeds is because the selling authority has no wish to be liable for any situation concerning the property before the seizure.



For example, in 2012, a couple with a home in Grenada County, Mississippi, defaulted on the loan payments on the property. In February 2013, the property was foreclosed upon by their lender, Wells Fargo Bank. Subsequent legal documents indicated that Wells Fargo "conveyed the Property to FNMA in a special warranty deed."


   Special Considerations  

Most times, a title search will uncover any liens or claims to the title of a property. A title search is a review of available public records to determine the ownership of property. Attorneys, title companies, and individuals can complete title searches to verify ownership of property. While these searches are extensive, there is always the possibility that something will be missed.



For this reason, most buyers—regardless of the type of warranty deed they use—also purchase title insurance when buying a property. Title insurance is an indemnity insurance policy that protects a buyer from financial claims against the title of a property they own.




What Is a Special Warranty Deed Used For?
If you are involved in a commercial property transaction, you will most likely need to use a special warranty deed.




What Is a General Warranty Deed?
If you are purchasing a home or other type of residential property, you will usually use a general warranty deed for your transaction with your mortgage lender.




What Are Other Names for a Special Warranty Deed?
Covenant deed, grant deed, and limited warranty deed are all different names for "special warranty deed" used by the real estate industry.
What Is Specialization?  

Specialization is a method of production whereby an entity focuses on the production of a limited scope of goods to gain a greater degree of efficiency. Many countries, for example, specialize in producing the goods and services that are native to their part of the world, and they trade them for other goods and services.



This specialization is thus the basis of global trade, as few countries have enough production capacity to be completely self-sustaining.





Key Takeaways

Specialization in business involves focusing on one product or a limited scope of products so as to become more efficient.Specialization can increase productivity and provide a comparative advantage for a firm or economy.Microeconomic specialization involves the individual actors and economic components, and macroeconomic specialization involves the broad advantage an economy holds in production.


   Understanding Specialization  

Specialization is an agreement within a community, organization, or larger group in which each of the members best suited for a specific activity assumes responsibility for its successful execution.


  Microeconomic Specialization  

Specialization can occur on both the microeconomic level and the macroeconomic levels. At the individual level, specialization usually comes in the form of career or labor specialization. Each member of an organization or economy, for example, has a unique set of talents, abilities, skills, and interests that make her uniquely able to perform a set of tasks.



Labor specialization exploits these unique talents and places people in areas where they perform the best, helping both the individual, as well as the overall economy.



If, for example, a single individual excels at math but is not a proficient writer, it benefits both the individual and the community if she pursues a field that relies heavily on mathematics.



Using another example, specialization can even refer to the production capacity of an individual firm. When setting up a factory, an assembly line is organized to increase efficiency rather than producing the entire product at one production station.






Specialization involves focusing on a specific skill, activity, or production process, such as a South American company harvesting bananas, to become the leader or expert.


  Macroeconomic Specialization  

Economies that realize specialization have a comparative advantage in the production of a good or service. Comparative advantage refers to the ability to produce a good or service at a lower marginal cost and opportunity cost than another good or service.



When an economy can specialize in production, it benefits from international trade. If, for example, a country can produce bananas at a lower cost than oranges, it can choose to specialize and dedicate all its resources to the production of bananas, using some of them to trade for oranges.



Specialization also occurs within a country's borders, as is the case with the United States. For example, citrus goods grow better in the warmer climate of the South and West, many grain products come from the farms of the Midwest, and maple syrup comes from the maple trees of New England. All these areas focus on the production of these specific goods, and they trade or purchase other goods.
What is Speculation?  

In the world of finance, speculation, or speculative trading, refers to the act of conducting a financial transaction that has substantial risk of losing value but also holds the expectation of a significant gain or other major value. With speculation, the risk of loss is more than offset by the possibility of a substantial gain or other recompense.



An investor who purchases a speculative investment is likely focused on price fluctuations. While the risk associated with the investment is high, the investor is typically more concerned about generating a profit based on market value changes for that investment than on long-term investing. When speculative investing involves the purchase of a foreign currency, it is known as currency speculation. In this scenario, an investor buys a currency in an effort to later sell that currency at an appreciated rate, as opposed to an investor who buys a currency in order to pay for an import or to finance a foreign investment.



Without the prospect of substantial gains, there would be little motivation to engage in speculation. It may sometimes be difficult to distinguish between speculation and simple investment, forcing the market player to consider whether speculation or investment depends on factors that measure the nature of the asset, expected duration of the holding period and/or amount of leverage applied to the exposure.


   How Does Speculation Work?  

For example, real estate can blur the line between investment and speculation when buying property with the intention of renting it out. While this would qualify as investing, buying multiple condominiums with minimal down payments for the purpose of reselling them quickly at a profit would undoubtedly be regarded as speculation.



Speculators can provide market liquidity and narrow the bid-ask spread, enabling producers to hedge price risk efficiently. Speculative short-selling may also keep rampant bullishness in check and prevent the formation of asset price bubbles through betting against successful outcomes.



Mutual funds and hedge funds often engage in speculation in the foreign exchange markets as well as bond and stock markets.





Key Takeaways

Speculation refers to the act of conducting a financial transaction that has substantial risk of losing value but also holds the expectation of a significant gainWithout the prospect of substantial gains, there would be little motivation to engage in speculation.Consider whether speculation depends on the nature of the asset, expected duration of the holding period and/or amount of applied leverage.







Speculation


   Speculation and the Forex Market  

Forex markets execute the world's highest total volume and dollar value, with an estimated $7.5 trillion per day changing hands between buyers and sellers. This market trades around the world for 24 hours a day while positions can be taken and reversed in seconds, utilizing high-speed electronic trading platforms.



Transactions typically feature spot deals to buy and sell currency pairs, such as EUR/USD (Euro-US Dollar), for delivery through options or simple exchange. This market is dominated by asset managers and hedge funds with multi-billion-dollar portfolios. Speculation in the forex markets can be hard to differentiate from typical hedging practices, which occur when a company or financial institution buys or sells a currency to hedge against market movements.



For example, a sale of foreign currency related to a bond purchase can be deemed either a hedge of the bond's value or common speculation. These relationships can get complicated to define if the currency position is bought and sold multiple times while the fund owns the underlying bond.


   Speculation and the Bond Market  

The global bond market is valued at over $133 trillion, of which approximately $51 trillion is based in the United States, and these assets may include debt issued by governments and multinational corporations. Asset prices can fluctuate greatly and are strongly influenced by interest rate movement as well as political and economic uncertainties. The largest single world market trades U.S. Treasuries, with prices in that venue often driven by common speculation.


   Speculation and Equities  

Speculative trading is a major part of the stock market, accounting for a significant portion of the daily trading volume. It usually involves buying and selling stocks to profit from short-term price fluctuations rather than focusing on the long-term fundamental value of a company. This approach often relies on technical analysis, market trends, and real-time news to identify potential opportunities. While speculative trading in equities can offer significant profit potential, it alsocarries substantial risks due to market volatility and the unpredictable nature of price movements.




Is speculative trading only for professionals?
Speculative trading is not exclusively for professionals, but it does require a certain level of knowledge and experience to navigate effectively. Both amateurs and professional traders can engage in speculative trading, but it's essential to understand the risks involved and have a solid strategy in place. Before diving into speculative trading, it's crucial to educate yourself on market trends, technical analysis, and risk management. Always remember that speculative trading can be highly volatile, and it's essential to approach it with caution, regardless of your experience level.




Is day trading considered speculation?
Yes, day trading is considered a form of speculation. Day trading involves buying and selling financial instruments, such as stocks, currencies, or commodities, within the same trading day, with the aim of profiting from short-term price fluctuations. Day traders typically close all their positions before the market closes to avoid overnight risks. Since day trading focuses on short-term market movements rather than long-term fundamental value, it is considered speculative in nature. It's important to note that day trading carries significant risks and requires a high level of discipline, knowledge, and experience.




Has there been an increase in speculative trading in recent years?
Yes, there has been an increase in speculative trading in recent years. Several factors have contributed to this growth:Technology advancements: The rise of online trading platforms and mobile apps has made it easier and more accessible for individual investors to engage in speculative trading.Lower costs: Online brokerages have reduced trading costs, including commissions and fees, making it more affordable for individual investors to participate in speculative trading.Greater access to information: The internet and social media have made it easier for investors to access financial news, analysis, and opinions.The popularity of new asset classes: The emergence of cryptocurrencies and other alternative investments has attracted many speculators looking for high returns and unique opportunities.


  The Bottom Line  

In conclusion, speculation involves trading high-risk assets with the potential for substantial rewards, but it requires a solid understanding of market dynamics, effective risk management strategies, and emotional discipline. While it may be enticing for investors seeking quick profits, it'scrucial to approach speculative trading cautiously and educate oneself thoroughly to maximize success and minimize losses.
What is a Speculator  

A speculator utilizes strategies and typically a shorter time frame in an attempt to outperform traditional longer-term investors. Speculators take on risk, especially with respect to anticipating future price movements, in the hope of making gains that are large enough to offset the risk.



Speculators that take on excessive risk typically don't last long. Speculators exert control over long-term risks by employing various strategies such as position sizing, stop loss orders, and monitoring the statistics of their trading performance. Speculators are typically sophisticated risk-taking individuals with expertise in the markets in which they are trading. 


   Basics of Speculators  

Speculators attempt to predict price changes and extract profit from the price moves in an asset. They may utilize leverage to magnify returns (and losses), although this is a personal choice of the individual.



There are different types of speculators in a market. For example, individual traders can be speculators, if they purchase a financial instrument for short periods of time with intentions of profiting from its price changes. Market makers can also be considered speculators because they take the opposite position to market participants and profit from the difference in bid and ask spreads. Prop shops or proprietary trading firms can also be considered speculators because they use leverage to purchase securities and make profits from changes in their price.



Normally, speculators operate in a shorter time frame than a traditional investor.



For example, a person may call themself an investor if they buy 20 strong companies and plan to hold those stocks for at least 10 years, assuming the companies continue to perform well. A speculator, on the other hand, may use all their portfolio capital to buy five stocks, or several futures contracts, expecting them to rise over the next few days, weeks, or months. Speculators typically utilize trading strategies that tell them when to buy, when to sell (at a loss or profit), and how big of a position to take.


   Principles Behind Speculation  

Speculation sometimes gets confused with gambling. There is an important distinction, though. If a trader is using untested methods to trade, often based on hunches or feelings, it is highly likely they are gambling. If gambling, the trader is likely to lose over the long-run. Profitable speculation takes a lot of work, but with proper strategies, it is possible to gain a reliable edge in the marketplace.



Profitable speculators look for repeating patterns in the marketplace. They look for commonalities between many rising and falling prices, in an attempt to use that information to profit from future ups and downs in price. It is detailed work, and because prices are always moving and there are nearly infinite variables to consider, each speculator often develops their own unique way of trading.





Key Takeaways

Speculators are sophisticated investors or traders who purchase assets for short periods of time and employ strategies in order to profit from changes in its price. Speculators are important to markets because they bring liquidity and assume market risk. Conversely, they can also have a negative impact on markets, when their trading actions result in a speculative bubble that drives up an asset's price to unsustainable levels.


   Speculators' Impact on the Market  

If a speculator believes that a particular asset is going to increase in value, they may choose to purchase as much of the asset as possible. This activity, based on the perceived increase in demand, drives up the price of the particular asset. If this activity is seen across the market as a positive sign, it may cause other traders to purchase the asset as well, further elevating the price. This can result in a speculative bubble, where the speculator activity has driven the price of an asset above its true value.



The same can be seen in reverse. If a speculator believes a downward trend is on the horizon, or that an asset is currently overpriced, they sell as much of the asset as possible while prices are higher. This act begins to lower the price of the asset. If other traders act similarly, the price will continue to fall until the activity in the market stabilizes.



In this way, even many investors become speculators from time to time. They get caught up in the frenzy of the big ups and down. While they may have initiated their position with the intention of being long-term investors, if they start to buy and sell solely because they think other people are buying or selling, they have entered the realm speculation—possibly even gambling, if they are unsure of what they are doing—as opposed to investing.
What Does "Spider" Mean?  

Spider (SPDR) is a short form name for a Standard & Poor's depository receipt, an exchange-traded fund (ETF) managed by State Street Global Advisors that tracks the Standard & Poor's 500 index (S&P 500). Each share of an SPDR contains a 10th of the S&P 500 index and trades at roughly a 10th of the dollar-value level of the S&P 500. SPDRs can also refer to the general group of ETFs to which the Standard & Poor's depositary receipt belongs.





Key Takeaways

"Spider" refers to Standard & Poor's Depository Receipts, or SPDR, which is an exchange-traded fund that tracks its underlying index, the S&P 500.The ETF trades at one-tenth of the value of the S&P. IF the S&P is trading at $3,000, SPDR will trade at $300.SPDRs are the cornerstone of many investor portfolios.Due to the price, the fund is accessible to almost anyone who wishes to invest in the S&P 500 through an ETF.


   How Spiders (SPDRs) Work  

Spiders are listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) after the acquisition of the American Stock Exchange (AMEX) under the ticker symbol SPY. By trading similar to stocks, spiders have continuous liquidity, can be short sold, bought on margin, provide regular dividend payments and incur regular brokerage commissions when traded.



Spiders are used by large institutions and traders as bets on the overall direction of the market. They are also used by individual investors who believe in passive management or index investing. In this respect, spiders compete directly with S&P 500 index funds and provide an alternative to traditional mutual fund investment.






SPDRs can be purchased and sold through a brokerage account, meaning that strategies that use stop-losses and limit orders can be implemented.



SPDRs provide investors with value in much the same way as a mutual fund, but they trade like a common equity. For example, the returns of a SPDR is calculated using net asset value (NAV), just like a fund, which is derived using the aggregate value of the underlying group of investments.


   The Origin of SPDR ETFs  

SPDRs arrived in 1993 after the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued a 1988 report faulting automated orders for all index stocks for contributing to the "Black Monday" crash of 1987. The report stated that an instrument for trading a basket of stocks at one time could prevent the problem in the future. In response, the AMEX and several other organizations developed the SPY. The original ETF launched with $6.53 million in securities and, after initial difficulty persuading institutions to purchase the product, it soared to $1 billion in three years. The size of the ETF market as of Sept. 30, 2017, has exploded to $3.5 trillion in assets. 


   Examples of SPDR ETFs  

Investors can use SPDRs to realize broad diversification to specific portions of the market. For example, the SPDR S&P Dividend ETF is an investment vehicle that seeks to provide investment results that track the total return performance of the S&P High Yield Dividend Aristocrats Index. This means that the SPDR S&P Dividend ETF indexes dividend-paying stocks that are a part of the S&P 500. The ETF is made up of a total of 109 companies and tracks performance through its NAV, which is communicated as a price per share.



However, this is not the only SPDR that an investor can use to realize a diversified investment in the S&P 500. Using another real-world example, investors can invest in SPDR S&P Regional Banking ETF, which is an investment vehicle that reflects the performance of companies within the S&P 500 that conduct business as regional banks or thrifts. Specifically, the ETF seeks to provide results that match to the total return of the S&P Regional Banks Select Industry Index. The ETF is comprised of 102 companies in the S&P and also derives its value with its NAV, disseminated as a price per share.
What Is the Spillover Effect?  

Spillover effect refers to the impact that seemingly unrelated events in one nation can have on the economies of other nations. Although there are positive spillover effects, the term is most commonly applied to the negative impact a domestic event has on other parts of the world such as an earthquake, stock market crisis, or another macro event.


   How the Spillover Effect Works  

Spillover effects are a type of network effect that increased since globalization in trade and stock markets deepened the financial connections between economies. The Canada-U.S. trade relationship provides an example of spillover effects. This is because the U.S. is Canada’s main market by a wide margin across nearly every export-oriented sector. The effects of a minor U.S. slowdown are amplified by the Canadian reliance on the U.S. market for its own growth.



For example, if consumer spending in the United States declines, it has spillover effects on the economies that depend on the U.S. as their largest export market. The larger an economy is, the more spillover effects it is likely to produce across the global economy. Since the U.S. is a leader in the global economy, nations and markets can be easily swayed by domestic turmoil.






Most of the world experiences significant spillover effects when there is a downturn or macro effect in the world's two largest economies: the United States and China.



Since 2009, China has emerged as a major source of spillover effects as well. This is because Chinese manufacturers have driven much of the global commodity demand growth since 2000. With China becoming the number two economy in the world after the U.S., the number of countries that experience spillover effects from a Chinese slowdown is significant.



When China's economy experiences a downturn, it has a palpable impact on the worldwide trade in metals, energy, grains, and many more commodities. This leads to economic pain through much of the world, although it is most acute in Eastern Europe, the Middle East, and Africa, as these areas rely on China for a larger percentage of their revenue.


   Special Considerations  
  Unconnected Economies  

There are some countries that experience very little as far as spillover effects from the global market. These closed-off economies are getting rarer as even North Korea⁠—an economy nearly sealed off from world trade in 2019—has begun to feel the⁠ spillover effects from intermittent Chinese slowdowns.


  Safe-Haven Economies  

A few developed economies are vulnerable to certain economic phenomena that can overwhelm spillover effects, no matter how strong. Japan, the U.S., and the Eurozone, for example, all experience spillover effects from China, but this impact is partially counteracted by the flight to safety by investors into their respective markets when global markets get shaky.



Similarly, if one of the economies in this safe haven group is struggling, investments will usually go to one of the remaining safe havens.



This effect was seen with the U.S. investment inflows during the EU’s struggles with the Greek debt crisis in 2015. When dollars flow into U.S. Treasuries, the yield goes down along with the borrowing cost for American homebuyers, borrowers, and businesses. This is an example of a positive spillover effect from the perspective of a U.S. consumer.





Key Takeaways

The spillover effect is when an event in a country has a ripple effect on the economy of another, usually more dependent country. Spillover effects can be caused by stock market downturns such as the Great Recession in 2008, or macro events like the Fukushima disaster in 2011. Some countries experience a cushion from the spillover effect because they are considered "safe haven" economies, where investors park assets when downturns occur.
What Is a Spinning Top Candlestick?  

A spinning top is a candlestick pattern with a short real body that's vertically centered between long upper and lower shadows. The candlestick pattern represents indecision about the future direction of the asset. It means that neither buyers nor sellers could gain the upper hand.



A candlestick pattern forms when the buyers push the price up during a given time period, and the sellers push the price down during the same time period, but ultimately the closing price ended up very close to the open. After a strong price advance or decline, spinning tops can signal a potential price reversal if the candle that follows confirms. A spinning top can have a close above or below the open, but the two prices are always close together.





Key Takeaways


A spinning top is a candlestick pattern that has a short real body that's vertically centered between long upper and lower shadows.
The real body should be small, showing little difference between the open and close prices.
Since buyers and sellers both pushed the price, but couldn't maintain it, the pattern shows indecision and that more sideways movement could follow.







   What Does a Spinning Top Candlestick Tell You?  

Spinning tops are a sign of indecision in the asset; the long upper and lower shadows indicate there wasn't a meaningful change in price between the open and close. The bulls sent the price sharply higher and the bears sent the price sharply lower, but in the end, the price closed near where it opened. This indecision can signal more sideways movement, especially if the spinning top occurs within an established range. It can also signal a possible price reversal if it occurs following a price advance or decline.



Sometimes spinning tops may signal a significant trend change. A spinning top that occurs at the top of an uptrend could be a sign that bulls are losing their control and the trend may reverse. Similarly, a spinning top at the bottom of a downtrend could signal that bears are losing control and bulls may take the reins.



In any case, confirmation helps clarify what the spinning top is saying. The confirmation comes from the next candle. If a trader believes a spinning top after an uptrend could result in a reversal to the downside, the candle that follows the spinning top should see prices drop. If it doesn't, the reversal is not confirmed and the trader will need to wait for another trade signal. If the spinning top occurs within a range, this indicates indecision is still prevalent and the range will likely continue. The candle that follows should confirm, meaning it stays within the established sideways channel.



Spinning tops are a common candlestick pattern, which means they work best in conjunction with other forms of technical analysis. For example, traders may look at technical indicators, like the moving average convergence-divergence (MACD) or relative strength index (RSI), for signs of a reversal before taking a trade based on a spinning top. Indicators or other forms of analysis, such as identifying support and resistance, may aid in making decisions based on candlestick patterns.


   Example of a Spinning Top Candlestick  










Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



The chart example shows several spinning tops. The first one, on the left, occurs after a small price decline. It is followed by a down candle, indicating a further price slide. The price does head a bit lower but then reverses to the upside. If taking trades based on candlesticks, this highlights the importance of having a plan and managing risk after the candlestick.



The second spinning top occurs within a range. It confirms the current indecision of the market, as the price continues to head sideways.



The third spinning top is exceptionally large compared to the candles around it. It occurred after an advance and was followed by a large down candle. This ended up being a reversal candle, as the price proceeded lower.



As the price was dropping, another spinning top formed. It ends up being a brief pause, as the next candle gapped lower and continued falling.



The examples highlight the importance of confirmation and context. Spinning tops within ranges typically help confirm the range and the market's indecision. Spinning tops within trends may be reversals signals, but the candle that follows needs to confirm.


   Limitations of Using the Spinning Top  

Spinning top candlesticks are common, which means many of the patterns witnessed will be inconsequential. Since assets often have periods of indecision, this makes sense. Spinning tops frequently occur when the price is already moving sideways or is about to start.



As for forecasting reversals, the common nature of spinning tops also makes this problematic. Many spinning tops won't result in a reversal. Confirmation is required, but even with confirmation, there is no assurance the price will continue in the new direction.



Trading around a spinning top can also pose some problems since the candle can be quite large from high to low. If confirmation comes after a spinning top and a trade is taken, placing a stop loss above or below the high/low of the spinning top could result in a large risk which doesn't justify the potential reward.



Assessing the reward potential of a spinning top trade is also difficult since the candlestick pattern doesn't provide a price target or exit plan. Traders need to utilize other candlestick patterns, strategies, or indicators to find a profitable exit.




Is a Spinning Top Candlestick Bullish or Bearish?
If the spinning top occurs at the bottom of a downtrend, it could signal that a bullish reversal may happen. Conversely, if the spinning top occurs at the top of an uptrend, it could suggest a bearish reversal.




What Is the Difference Between a Spinning Top and a Doji?
Spinning tops and dojis both represent indecision. Dojis are smaller, with small real bodies and small upper and lower shadows. The spinning top has long upper and lower shadows. Both patterns occur frequently and are sometimes used to warn of a reversal after a strong price move. Both types of candlesticks rely heavily on confirmation. A strong move after the spinning top or doji tells more about the new potential price direction than the spinning top or doji itself.




What Is a Candlestick?
A candlestick is a type of price chart used in technical analysis. It displays the high, low, open, and closing prices of a security over a specific period of time. The wide part of the candlestick is called the "real body" and tells investors whether the closing price was higher or lower than the opening price.


   The Bottom Line  

The spinning top candlestick pattern represents indecision and uncertainty about the future course of an asset. It indicates that the bulls sent the price higher, while the bears pushed it low again. resulting in no meaningful change in price. However, a spinning top can signify a future price reversal if confirmed by the next candle.



The spinning top is considered a common candlestick pattern, and trading it is similar than trading other candlestick formations: traders should combine it with other candlestick patterns and indicators to find a profitable exit.
What Is a Spinoff?  

A spinoff is a new and separate company that's created when a parent company distributes shares in a subsidiary or business division to the parent company shareholders. It is a type of divestiture.



A parent company creates a spinoff expecting that it will be worth more as an independent entity than it was as part of the parent company. A spinoff is also known as a spinout or starburst.





Key Takeaways

A spinoff is an independent company created when a parent company issues shares in an existing business or division to parent company shareholders.A parent company may form a spinoff when it projects that a new, independent entity will be worth more than it was as part of the company.A spinoff will have its own management structure and a new name, but it may continue to receive financial and technological support from the parent company.Spinoffs tend to be good investments for shareholders.












Mira Norian / Investopedia


   Understanding Spinoffs  

A parent company will spin off part of its business if it expects that it will be lucrative to do so. The spinoff will have a separate management structure and a new name, but it will retain the same assets, intellectual property, and human resources. The parent company will continue to provide financial and technological support, in most cases.


  How Spinoffs Are Created  

A corporation creates a spinoff by distributing 100% of its ownership interest in that business unit as shares of stock to existing shareholders.



It can also offer its existing shareholders a discount to exchange their shares in the parent company for shares of the spinoff.



For example, an investor could exchange $100 of the parent’s stock for $110 of the spinoff’s stock. Spinoffs tend to increase returns for shareholders because the newly independent companies can better focus on their specific products or services.


   Why Spinoffs Happen  

A spinoff may occur for various reasons. But the overall belief is that it will be more profitable as an independent entity than it was as a part of the parent company. And, the parent company may then be better positioned to achieve greater value, as well.



A company may conduct a spinoff so that it can focus its resources and better manage the areas of the business that have greater long-term potential.
Businesses wishing to streamline their operations often spinoff less productive or unrelated subsidiary businesses. For example, a company might spin off one of its mature business units that is experiencing little or no growth so that it can focus on a product or service with higher growth prospects.
Alternatively, if a portion of the business is headed in a different direction and has strategic priorities different from the parent company, it may be spun off to provide value as an independent operation.
A company that hoped sell a business unit but is unable to interest buyers in it may spin it off instead. Doing so may provide more value to shareholders.






Both the parent company and the spinoff tend to perform better as a result of the spinoff transaction, with each now able to focus more effectively on its core competencies.


   Risks of Spinoffs  

The downside of spinoffs is that their share price can be more volatile and can tend to underperform in weak markets and outperform in strong markets.



Spinoffs can also experience high selling activity initially. Parent company shareholders may not want the shares of the spinoff they received because the spinoff may not fit their investment criteria. The share price may dip in the short term because of this selling activity, even if the spinoff’s long-term prospects are positive.


   Examples of Spinoffs  

Spinoffs are a common occurrence. Typically, dozens are created each year in the United States. Examples include the spinoff of Smith & Wesson Inc. from American Outdoor Brands Corp. and the separation of PayPal Inc. from its parent company, eBay Inc.



In addition, in early 2023, General Electric spun off its healthcare division, GE HealthCare Technologies and Jefferies Financial Group spun off its holdings of Vitesse.




What Happens in a Spinoff?
A parent company distributes shares in a division or subsidiary to parent company shareholders and creates a wholly separate business entity.




What Effect Does a Spinoff Have on Parent Company Shares?
Initially, a spinoff will cause the price of the parent company stock to drop as the assets now owned by the spinoff are removed from the parent company's financials, lowering the company book value. Parent company shareholders should see that together, both share prices should approximate the parent company's pre-spinoff stock price.




Are Spinoffs Good for Investors?
They can be. Generally, both company shares and spinoff shares tend to outperform the market in the first couple of years following a spinoff (after some initial dips and volatility). In addition, as a small company, the spinoff has great potential for growth along with a focused, enthusiastic management. This can attract investors, which can boost share price. However, spinoff shares can be volatile due to the company being new and lacking financial performance history.


   The Bottom Line  

A spinoff, also known as a spinout or starburst, creates a new company out of an existing company. It's a type of divestiture, and is only done if a parent company expects that the new company will be worth more on its own and the parent company can offer added value without it. Bear in mind that the share price of a spinoff can be volatile as the market adjusts to the new company.
What Is Spoofing?  

Spoofing is a type of scam in which a criminal disguises an email address, display name, phone number, text message, or website URL to convince a target that they are interacting with a known, trusted source. Spoofing often involves changing just one letter, number, or symbol of the communication so that it looks valid at a quick glance. For example, you could receive an email that appears to be from Netflix using the fake domain name “netffix.com.”





Key Takeaways

Spoofing to trick you into divulging personal information can be done through email, text messages, caller ID, and even GPS receivers.Be skeptical of any request for personal information, download files only from trusted sources, and install reputable antivirus and antimalware software.If you think you’ve been spoofed, file a complaint at the Consumer Complaint Center of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). If you have lost money, contact the local police.


   How Spoofing Works  

Spoofing criminals try to gain your trust, and they count on making you believe that the spoofed communications are legitimate. Often, using the name of a big, trusted company—such as Amazon or PayPal—is enough to get targets to take some kind of action or reveal information.



For instance, a fake email from Amazon might indicate a problem with a recent purchase, which could motivate you to click on the link to learn more (hint: Don’t click on the link). From that link, you could download malware or be directed to a fake login page, where you unknowingly enter your username and password.



Spoofing can lead you to disclose personal and financial information, send money, and download malware, which can lead to infected computers, financial fraud, and identity theft. Spoofing can be used to spread malware via links and attachments, bypass network access controls, and restrict access through denial-of-service (DoS) attacks. At the corporate level, spoofing can cause infected computer systems and networks, data breaches, and loss of income.



There are several kinds of spoofing, including email spoofing, text message spoofing, caller ID spoofing, and URL and GPS spoofing. Essentially, if there’s a form of online communication, spoofers are trying to scam their way into it—and into your identity and your assets.


   How to Protect Yourself From Spoofing  

There are several ways to protect yourself from would-be spoofing scammers:



Turn on your email’s spam filter. This will prevent many spoofed emails from ever landing in your inbox.
Don’t click on links or open attachments in emails from unknown senders. If there’s a chance that the email is legitimate, reach out directly to the sender to confirm that it’s real.
If you get a suspicious email or text asking you to log into your account for some reason, don’t click on the provided link. Instead, open a new tab or window (or the dedicated app on your phone) and log in directly to your account.
Display file extensions in Windows. Windows does not display file extensions by default, but you can change the setting. To do so, click the “View” tab in File Explorer and check the box to show file extensions. While this doesn’t prevent scammers from spoofing file extensions, you’ll be able to view any spoofed extensions and avoid opening any malicious files.
Invest in reputable cybersecurity software. Good software will alert you about potential threats, stop downloads, and prevent malware from taking over. Keep in mind that the software only works if you keep it updated and use it regularly.
If you get an inquiry seeking personal information, don’t provide it. Hang up (or log off) and then look up the phone number or customer service email address from the entity purportedly contacting you for your personal information.



If you think you’ve been spoofed, you can file a complaint at the Consumer Complaint Center of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). The FCC doesn’t act on individual complaints but will add that information to its database. If you’ve lost money because of spoofing, the FCC recommends contacting your local police department.


   Types of Spoofing  
  Email Spoofing  

Email spoofing is the act of sending emails with false sender addresses, typically as part of a phishing attack intended to steal your data, ask for money, or infect your computer with malware. This tactic is used by both dishonest advertisers and outright thieves. The spoofer sends emails with a falsified “From:” line to trick victims into believing that the message is from a friend, their bank, or some other legitimate source. Any email that asks for your password, Social Security number, or any other personal information could be a trick.



These emails typically include a combination of deceptive features, including:



False sender addresses that look like someone who you know and trustA missing sender address, or at least one that is hard for the average user to findFamiliar corporate branding, such as logos, colors, call-to-action buttons, and the likeTypos, bad grammar, and unusual syntax (e.g., “Good day sir, please made certain this data is well and good”).


  Text Message Spoofing  

Sometimes referred to as smishing, text message (SMS) spoofing is similar to email spoofing. The text message appears to come from a legitimate source, such as your bank or a doctor’s office. It may request that you call a specific phone number or click on a link within the message to get you to divulge personal information.


  Caller ID Spoofing  

Here, the spoofer falsifies the phone number from which they are calling in the hope of getting you to take their call. On your caller ID, it might appear that the call is coming from a legitimate business or government agency, such as the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Note that the IRS says it doesn’t call taxpayers to tell them they owe taxes without first sending them a bill in the mail.






Spoofing comes in many forms, but the goal is usually to trick people into divulging personal information that criminals can use.


  Neighbor Spoofing  

This is a type of caller ID spoofing in which the call appears to be from someone you know or a person who lives near you. The FCC says that the Truth in Caller ID Act prohibits “anyone from transmitting misleading or inaccurate caller ID information with the intent to defraud, cause harm or wrongly obtain anything of value.” If they’re caught (and that’s a big “if”), the spoofer can face penalties of up to $10,000 for each violation.


  URL or Website Spoofing  

URL spoofing happens when scammers set up a fraudulent website to obtain information from victims or install malware on their computers. For instance, victims might be directed to a site that looks like it belongs to their bank or credit card company and be asked to log in using their user ID and password. If the person falls for it and logs in, the scammer could then use the information that the victim typed in to log into the real site and access their accounts.


  GPS Spoofing  

GPS spoofing has a somewhat different purpose. It attempts to trick a GPS receiver into believing it is in a different location or headed in a different direction by broadcasting bogus GPS signals or other means. At this point, GPS spoofing is more likely to be used in warfare or by gamers (e.g., Pokémon GO players) than to target individual consumers, although the technology exists to make anyone vulnerable.


  Man-in-the-Middle (MitM) Attacks  

These spoofing attacks involve three players: the victim, the entity that the victim is trying to communicate with, and the “man in the middle” who intercepts the communications. The spoofer attempts to eavesdrop on the exchange or impersonate one of the parties. The goal is to intercept information that is useful, sensitive, or potentially profitable (e.g., login credentials and credit card information). Stolen information can be used to approve financial transactions, for identity theft, or it may be sold to a third party.


  IP Spoofing  

This type of scam happens when someone wants to disguise or hide the location from where they’re sending or requesting data, so they replace the source Internet protocol (IP) address with a fake one. The spoofed IP address looks like it’s from a trusted source (the original IP address) while masking its true identity: an unknown third party. Virtual private network (VPN) services allow users to mask their IP and location, which can also be used for legitimate reasons such as privacy or streaming content went traveling overseas.


  Facial Spoofing  

This is the latest form of spoofing. With facial spoofing, a criminal uses a person’s face and simulates their facial biometrics by using a photo or video to replace their identity. Facial spoofing is most commonly used to commit bank identity fraud. However, it is also used in money laundering.





Spoofing vs. Phishing

Spoofing involves faking one's identity, and can be used for various attacks such as identity theft.
Phishing is one such use of spoofing that attempts to steal somebody's personal information or credentials by having them volunteer that information from a nefarious source that looks legit. For instance, a phishing email may appear to come from your bank, but the link inside would direct you to a phony version of the bank's website. If you enter your credentials, they are subsequently turned over to the attacker.


   How to Detect Spoofing  

Spoofing can be sophisticated, so the key is to pay close attention to the details and trust your instincts. Be wary of websites with no lock symbols or green bars, or URLs that begin with HTTP instead of HTTPS, the encrypted version of HTTP. Another way to tell a fake website is if your password manager doesn’t autofill your login—a sign that it doesn’t recognize the website.



With emails, take a close look at the sender’s address, keeping in mind that scammers will use fake domains that are very similar to legitimate ones. Of course, typos, bad grammar, and unusual syntax in the email are also red flags. If you’re still unsure, copy and paste the contents of the email into Google, where a quick search can reveal if a known scam is circulating. Finally, always hover over an embedded link to reveal the URL before you click on it. If the URL looks suspicious, it is likely a scam. Expand the details of the sender to see if the email address is correct and not just the name. Also pay attention for alternations in small details like a capital "i" (I) for a small "L" (l).



With phones, caller ID is easily spoofed. Scammers often use neighbor spoofing, so it appears that calls are coming from a local number. They may also spoof a number from a government agency or business that you know and trust. The FCC advises people not to answer calls from unknown numbers—and to hang up immediately if you do answer such a call.






To hover on a link that’s on your smartphone, hold your finger on the link for a few seconds. A window will pop up that shows the full URL of the link. This can help you determine if the link is reliable or suspicious.




Is Spoofing Illegal?
Spoofing can be illegal depending on the type of spoof, the intent, and the jurisdiction involved. If you mask your phone number but there is no harm, spoofing is legal. But in the U.S., the FCC prohibits anyone from transmitting misleading or inaccurate caller ID information with the intent to defraud, with fines up to $10,000 per instance.




What Is an Example of Spoofing?
A common spoofing scenario happens when an email is sent from a fake sender address, asking the recipient to provide sensitive data. Typically, the recipient is prompted to click on a link to log into their account and update personal and financial details. Links in spoofing emails also infect the recipient’s computer with malware.




What Is the Difference Between Spoofing and Phishing?
The terms “spoofing” and “phishing” are often used interchangeably, but they mean different things. Spoofing uses a fake email address, display name, phone number, or web address to trick people into believing that they are interacting with a known, trusted source. Phishing tricks you into providing personal data that can be used for identity theft. Many phishers use spoofing tactics to trick their victims into believing they are providing personal information to a legitimate, trusted source.


   The Bottom Line  

People have pretended to be other people or the representatives of other organizations since time immemorial. However, with the advent of the internet and online communications, "spoofing" has become much easier and more widespread. Websites, emails, geolocations, and phone numbers today can all be spoofed by bad actors to commit crimes, steal identities, or perpetuate scams. Knowing how to spot and protect against spoofing is important in the digital age. At the same time, spoofing can provide anonymity for internet users for legitimate purposes of privacy. The use of VPNs, for instance, can mask your location and identity when surfing the web.
What Is a Spot Exchange Rate?  

A spot exchange rate is the current price at which a person could exchange one currency for another, for delivery on the earliest possible value date. 



Cash delivery for spot currency transactions is usually the standard settlement date of two business days after the transaction date (T+2).





Key Takeaways

The spot exchange rate is the current market price for exchanging one currency for another.Generally, the spot rate is set by the forex market.Some countries actively set or influence spot exchange rates through mechanisms like a currency peg.Currency traders follow spot rates to identify trading opportunities not only in the spot market but also in futures, forwards, and options markets.The forex market is considered the largest and most liquid market in the world.


   Understanding Spot Exchange Rates  

The spot exchange rate is best thought of as how much you would have to pay in one currency to buy another at any moment in time. Spot rates are usually set through the global foreign exchange market (forex) where currency traders, institutions, and countries clear transactions and trades.



The forex market is the largest and most liquid market in the world, with trillions of dollars changing hands daily. The most actively traded currencies are the U.S. dollar, the euro, the British pound, the Japanese yen and the Canadian dollar. The euro is used in many continental European countries including Germany, France, and Italy.



Global forex trading takes place electronically between large, multinational banks, corporations, mutual funds, hedge funds, insurance companies, and government entities.



Transactions are made for a wide range of purposes, including import and export payments, short- and long-term investments, loans, and speculation.



Some currencies, especially in developing economies, are controlled by governments that set the spot exchange rate. For instance, the central government of China has a currency peg policy that sets the yuan and keeps it within a tight trading range against the U.S. dollar.


   Spot Exchange Rate Transactions  

For most spot foreign exchange transactions, the settlement date is two business days after the transaction date. The most common exception to the rule is a U.S. dollar vs. the Canadian dollar transaction, which settles on the next business day.



Weekends and holidays mean that two business days is often far more than two calendar days, especially during the various holiday seasons around the world.



On the transaction date, the two parties involved in the transaction agree on the amount of currency A that will be exchanged for currency B. They also agree on the rate of exchange. Finally, the parties also agree on the value of the transaction in both currencies and the settlement date. If the currencies are to be delivered, the parties also exchange bank information.



Speculators often buy and sell multiple times for the same settlement date, in which case the transactions are netted and only the gain or loss is settled. Currency is never meant to be delivered.






An October 2021 New York Fed survey found that the average daily trading volume for all forex instruments (including spot, forwards, swaps, and options) was $989.4 million. The largest average daily volume in spot transactions was in the EUR/USD and USD/JPY currency pairs.


   Special Considerations  
  The Spot Market  

The foreign exchange spot market can be very volatile. In the short term, rates are often driven by news, speculation, and technical trading. In the long term, rates are generally driven by a combination of national economic fundamentals and interest rate differentials.



Central banks sometimes intervene to smooth the market, either by buying or selling the local currency or adjusting interest rates. Countries with large foreign currency reserves are much better positioned to influence their domestic currency's spot exchange rate.


  How to Execute a Spot Exchange  

There are a number of different ways in which traders and investors can execute a spot forex exchange.



The exchange can be made directly between two parties, eliminating the need for a third party.Traders can use electronic brokering systems for automated order matching.Traders can also use electronic single- or multi-bank trading systems.Trades can be made by voice over the phone with a foreign exchange intermediary. 




What's the Spot Exchange Rate?
The spot exchange rate is the price (set by the forex market) at which you can buy a currency today. Think of it as buying on the spot. The settlement date for your transaction will take place two business days later (for the majority of currencies).




Are Spot Exchange Transactions Popular?
According to a New York Fed survey, the more than $399 million in average daily volume of spot forex transactions was higher than any other type of forex transaction (such as forward contracts, options, and swaps).




What Do I Pay When I Need Euros for a Trip?
You pay the spot price (as well as related fees, potentially). It's the price available at the time you get that currency from a forex dealer in your town or order it through your bank. The spot price changes all the time because currency exchange rates constantly change.
What Is a Spot Market?  

The spot market is where financial instruments, such as commodities, currencies, and securities, are traded for immediate delivery. Delivery is the exchange of cash for the financial instrument. A futures contract, on the other hand, is based on the delivery of the underlying asset at a future date.



Exchanges and over-the-counter (OTC) markets may provide spot trading and/or futures trading. 





Key Takeaways

Financial instruments trade for immediate delivery in the spot market.Many assets quote a “spot price” and a “futures or forward price.”Most spot market transactions have a T+2 settlement date.Spot market transactions can take place on an exchange or over-the-counter (OTC).Spot markets can be contrasted with derivatives markets that instead trade in forwards, futures, or options contracts.


   How Spot Markets Work  

Spot markets are also referred to as “physical markets” or “cash markets” because trades are swapped for the asset effectively immediately. While the official transfer of funds between the buyer and seller may take time, such as T+2 in the stock market and in most currency transactions, both parties agree to the trade “right now.” A non-spot, or futures transaction, is agreeing to a price now, but delivery and transfer of funds will take place at a later date.



Futures trades in contracts that are about to expire are also sometimes called spot trades since the expiring contract means that the buyer and seller will be exchanging cash for the underlying asset immediately.


   Spot Price  

The current price of a financial instrument is called the spot price. It is the price at which an instrument can be sold or bought immediately. Buyers and sellers create the spot price by posting their buy and sell orders. In liquid markets, the spot price may change by the second, as orders get filled and new ones enter the marketplace.






The word "spot" comes from the phrase "on the spot", where in these markets you can purchase an asset on the spot.


   Spot Market and Exchanges  

Exchanges bring together dealers and traders who buy and sell commodities, securities, futures, options, and other financial instruments. Based on all the orders provided by participants, the exchange provides the current price and volume available to traders with access to the exchange.



The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) is an example of an exchange where traders buy and sell stocks for immediate delivery. This is a spot market.
The Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) is an example of an exchange where traders buy and sell futures contracts. This is a futures market and not a spot market.


   Spot Market and Over-the-Counter  

Trades that occur directly between a buyer and seller are called over-the-counter (OTC). A centralized exchange does not facilitate these trades. The foreign exchange market (or forex market) is the world's largest OTC market with an average daily turnover of $5 trillion.



In an OTC transaction, the price can be either based on a spot or a future price/date. In an OTC transaction the terms are not necessarily standardized, and therefore, may be subject to the discretion of the buyer and/or seller. As with exchanges, OTC stock transactions are typically spot trades, while futures or forward transactions are often not spot.


   Example of a Spot Market  

Let’s say an online furniture store in Germany offers a 30% discount to all international customers who pay within five business days after placing an order.



Danielle, who operates an online furniture business in the United States, sees the offer and decides to purchase $10,000 worth of tables from the online store. Since she needs to buy euros for (almost) immediate delivery and is happy with the current EUR/USD exchange rate of 1.1233, Danielle executes a foreign exchange transaction at the spot price to buy the equivalent of $10,000 in euros, which works out to be €8,902.34 ($10,000/1.1233). The spot transaction has a settlement date of T+2, so Danielle receives her euros in two days and settles her account to receive the 30% discount.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Spot Markets  

The spot price is the current quote for immediate purchase, payment, and delivery of a particular commodity. This means that it is incredibly important since prices in derivatives markets such as for futures and options will be inevitably based on these values. Spot markets also tend to be incredibly liquid and active for this reason. Commodity producers and consumers will engage in the spot market and then hedge in the derivatives market.



A disadvantage of the spot market, however, is taking delivery of the physical commodity. If you buy spot pork bellies, you now own some live hogs. While a meat processing plant may desire this, a speculator probably does not. Another downside is that spot markets cannot be used effectively to hedge against the production or consumption of goods in the future, which is where derivatives markets are better-suited.





Pros

Real-time prices of actual market prices
Active and liquid markets
Can take immediate delivery if desired



Cons

Must take physical delivery in many cases
Not suited for hedging





   Spot Market FAQs  
  What Does Spot Market Mean?  

Spot markets trade commodities or other assets for immediate (or very near-term) delivery. The word "spot" refers to the trade and receipt of the good being made "on the spot".


  What Are Examples of Spot Markets?  

Many commodities have active spot markets, where physical spot commodities are bought and sold in real-time for cash. Foreign exchange (FX) also has spot currencies markets where the underlying currencies are physically exchanged following the settlement date. Delivery usually occurs within 2 days after execution as it generally takes 2 days to transfer funds between bank accounts. Stock markets can also be thought of as spot markets, with shares of companies changing hands in real-time.


  What Is a Spot and Forward Market?  

A spot market is where spot commodities or other assets like currencies are traded for immediate delivery for cash. A forward market instead involves the trading of futures contracts (read on to the following question for more on this).


  What Is the Difference Between Spot Markets and Futures Markets?  

Forwards and futures are derivatives contracts that use the spot market as the underlying asset. These are contracts that give the owner control of the underlying at some point in the future, for a price agreed upon today. Only when the contracts expire would physical delivery of the commodity or other asset take place, and often traders will roll over or close out their contracts in order to avoid making or taking delivery altogether. Forwards and futures are generically the same, except that forwards are customizable and trade over-the-counter (OTC), whereas futures are standardized and traded on exchanges.
What is Spot Price  

The spot price is the current price in the marketplace at which a given asset—such as a security, commodity, or currency—can be bought or sold for immediate delivery. While spot prices are specific to both time and place, in a global economy the spot price of most securities or commodities tends to be fairly uniform worldwide when accounting for exchange rates. In contrast to the spot price, a futures price is an agreed upon price for future delivery of the asset. 


   Basics of Spot Price  

Spot prices are most frequently referenced in relation to the price of commodity futures contracts, such as contracts for oil, wheat, or gold. This is because stocks always trade at spot. You buy or sell a stock at the quoted price, and then exchange the stock for cash.



A futures contract price is commonly determined using the spot price of a commodity, expected changes in supply and demand, the risk-free rate of return for the holder of the commodity, and the costs of transportation or storage in relation to the maturity date of the contract. Futures contracts with longer times to maturity normally entail greater storage costs than contracts with nearby expiration dates.



Spot prices are in constant flux. While the spot price of a security, commodity, or currency is important in terms of immediate buy-and-sell transactions, it perhaps has more importance in regard to the large derivatives markets. Options, futures contracts, and other derivatives allow buyers and sellers of securities or commodities to lock in a specific price for a future time when they want to deliver or take possession of the underlying asset. Through derivatives, buyers and sellers can partially mitigate the risk posed by constantly fluctuating spot prices.



Futures contracts also provide an important means for producers of agricultural commodities to hedge the value of their crops against price fluctuations.


   The Relationship Between Spot Prices and Futures Prices  

The difference between spot prices and futures contract prices can be significant. Futures prices can be in contango or backwardation. Contango is when futures prices fall to meet the lower spot price. Backwardation is when futures prices rise to meet the higher spot price. Backwardation tends to favor net long positions since futures prices will rise to meet the spot price as the contract get closer to expiry. Contango favors short positions, as the futures lose value as the contract approaches expiry and converges with the lower spot price.



Futures markets can move from contango to backwardation, or vice versa, and may stay in either state for brief or extended periods of time. Looking at both spot prices and futures prices is beneficial to futures traders. 






Spot price is the price traders pay for instant delivery of an asset, such as a security or currency. They are in constant flux.Spot prices are used to determine futures prices and are correlated to them.


   Examples of Spot Prices  

An asset can have different spot and futures prices. For example, gold may have a spot price of $1,000 while its futures price may be $1,300. Similarly, the price for securities may trade in different ranges in the stock market and the futures market. For example, Apple Inc. (AAPL) may trade at $200 in the stock market but the strike price on its options may be $150 in the futures market, reflecting pessimistic trader perceptions of its future.
What Is the Spot Rate?  

The spot rate is the price quoted for immediate settlement on an interest rate, commodity, a security, or a currency. The spot rate, also referred to as the "spot price," is the current market value of an asset available for immediate delivery at the moment of the quote. This value is in turn based on how much buyers are willing to pay and how much sellers are willing to accept, which usually depends on a blend of factors including current market value and expected future market value.



While spot prices are specific to both time and place, in a global economy the spot price of most securities or commodities tends to be fairly uniform worldwide when accounting for exchange rates. In contrast to the spot price, a futures or forward price is an agreed-upon price for future delivery of the asset. 





Key Takeaways

The spot rate reflects real-time market supply and demand for an asset available for immediate delivery.The spot rates for particular currency pairs, commodities, and other securities are used to determine futures prices and are correlated with them.Contracts for delivery will often reference the spot rate at the time of signing.


   Understanding Spot Rates  

In currency transactions, the spot rate is influenced by the demands of individuals and businesses wishing to transact in a foreign currency, as well as by forex traders. The spot rate from a foreign exchange perspective is also called the "benchmark rate," "straightforward rate" or "outright rate."



Besides currencies, assets that have spot rates include commodities (e.g., crude oil, conventional gasoline, propane, cotton, gold, copper, coffee, wheat, lumber) and bonds. Commodity spot rates are based on supply and demand for these items, while bond spot rates are based on the zero-coupon rate. A number of sources, including Bloomberg, Morningstar, and ThomsonReuters, provide spot rate information to traders. These same spot rates, particularly currency pairs and commodity prices, are widely publicized in the news.


   The Spot Rate and the Forward Rate  

Spot settlement (i.e., the transfer of funds that completes a spot contract transaction) normally occurs one or two business days from the trade date, also called the horizon. The spot date is the day when settlement occurs. Regardless of what happens in the markets between the date the transaction is initiated and the date it settles, the transaction will be completed at the agreed-upon spot rate.



The spot rate is used in determining a forward rate—the price of a future financial transaction—since a commodity, security, or currency’s expected future value is based in part on its current value and in part on the risk-free rate and the time until the contract matures. Traders can extrapolate an unknown spot rate if they know the futures price, risk-free rate, and time to maturity.


   The Relationship Between Spot Prices and Futures Prices  

The difference between spot prices and futures contract prices can be significant. Futures prices can be in contango or backwardation. Contango is when futures prices fall to meet the lower spot price. Backwardation is when futures prices rise to meet the higher spot price. Backwardation tends to favor net long positions since futures prices will rise to meet the spot price as the contract get closer to expiry. Contango favors short positions, as the futures lose value as the contract approaches expiry and converges with the lower spot price.



Futures markets can move from contango to backwardation, or vice versa, and may stay in either state for brief or extended periods of time. Looking at both spot prices and futures prices is beneficial to futures traders.


   Example of How the Spot Rate Works  

As an example of how spot contracts work, say it's the month of August and a wholesaler needs to make delivery of bananas, she will pay the spot price to the seller and have bananas delivered within 2 days. However, if the wholesaler needs the bananas to be available at its stores in late December, but believes the commodity will be more expensive during this winter period due to higher demand and lower overall supply, she cannot make a spot purchase for this commodity since the risk of spoilage is high. Since the commodity wouldn't be needed until December, a forward contract is a better fit for the banana investment.



In the example above, an actual physical commodity is being taken for delivery. This type of transaction is most commonly executed through futures and traditional contracts that reference the spot rate at the time of signing. Traders, on the other hand, generally don't want to take physical delivery, so they will use options and other instruments to take positions on the spot rate for a particular commodity or currency pair.
What Is a Spot Trade?  

A spot trade, also known as a spot transaction, refers to the purchase or sale of a foreign currency, financial instrument, or commodity for instant delivery on a specified spot date. Most spot contracts include the physical delivery of the currency, commodity, or instrument; the difference in the price of a future or forward contract versus a spot contract takes into account the time value of the payment, based on interest rates and the time to maturity. In a foreign exchange spot trade, the exchange rate on which the transaction is based is referred to as the spot exchange rate.



A spot trade can be contrasted with a forward or futures trade.





Key Takeaways


Spot trades involve securities traded for immediate delivery in the market on a specified date.
Spot trades include the buying or selling of foreign currency, a financial instrument, or commodity 
Many assets quote a “spot price” and a “futures or forward price.”
Most spot market transactions have a T+2 settlement date.
Spot market transactions can take place on an exchange or over-the-counter.



   Understanding a Spot Trade  

Foreign exchange spot contracts are the most common type and are usually specified for delivery in two business days, while most other financial instruments settle the next business day. The spot foreign exchange (forex) market trades electronically around the world. It is the world's largest market, with over $5 trillion traded daily; its size dwarfs both the interest rate and commodity markets.



The current price of a financial instrument is called the spot price. It is the price at which an instrument can be sold or bought immediately. Buyers and sellers create the spot price by posting their buy and sell orders. In liquid markets, the spot price may change by the second, as outstanding orders get filled and new ones enter the marketplace.






Foreign exchange spot contracts are the most popular and the spot foreign exchange market, traded electronically, is the largest in the world.


   Special Considerations  
  Forward Pricing  

The price for any instrument that settles later than the spot is a combination of the spot price and the interest cost until the settlement date. In the case of forex, the interest rate differential between the two currencies is used for this calculation.


  Other Spot Markets  

Most interest rate products, such as bonds and options, trade for spot settlement on the next business day. Contracts are most commonly between two financial institutions, but they can also be between a company and a financial institution. An interest rate swap in which the near leg is for the spot date usually settles in two business days.



Commodities are usually traded on an exchange. The most popular is the CME Group (previously known as the Chicago Mercantile Exchange) and the Intercontinental Exchange, which owns the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). Most commodity trading is for future settlement and is not delivered; the contract is sold back to the exchange prior to maturity, and the gain or loss is settled in cash.
What Is Spread Betting?  

Spread betting refers to speculating on the direction of a financial market without actually owning the underlying security. It involves placing a bet on the price movement of a security. A spread betting company quotes two prices, the bid and ask price (also called the spread), and investors bet whether the price of the underlying security will be lower than the bid or higher than the ask.



The spread bettor does not actually own the underlying security in spread betting, they simply speculate on its price movement.



Spread betting should not be confused with spread trading, which involves taking offsetting positions in two (or more) different securities and profiting if the difference in price between the securities widens or narrows over time.





Key Takeaways

Spread betting refers to speculating on the direction of a financial market without actually taking a position in the underlying security.The investor does not own the underlying security in spread betting, they simply speculate on its price movement using leverage.It is promoted as a cost-effective method to speculate in both bull and bear markets.


   Understanding Spread Betting  

Spread betting allows investors to speculate on the price movement of a wide variety of financial instruments, such as stocks, forex, commodities, and fixed-income securities. In other words, an investor makes a bet based on whether they think the market will rise or fall from the time their bet is accepted. They also get to choose how much they want to risk on their bet. It is promoted as a tax-free, commission-free activity that allows investors to profit from either bull or bear markets.



Spread betting is a leveraged product which means investors only need to deposit a small percentage of the position's value. For example, if the value of a position is $50,000 and the margin requirement is 10%, a deposit of just $5,000 is required. This magnifies both gains and losses which means investors can lose more than their initial investment.






Spread betting is not available to residents of the United States due to regulatory and legal limitations.


   Managing Risk in Spread Betting  

Despite the risk that comes with the use of high leverage, spread betting offers effective tools to limit losses:



Standard stop-loss orders: Stop-loss orders reduce risk by automatically closing out a losing trade once a market passes a set price level. In the case of a standard stop-loss, the order will close out your trade at the best available price once the set stop value has been reached. It's possible that your trade can be closed out at a worse level than that of the stop trigger, especially when the market is in a state of high volatility.Guaranteed stop-loss orders: This form of stop-loss order guarantees to close your trade at the exact value you have set, regardless of the underlying market conditions. However, this form of downside insurance is not free. Guaranteed stop-loss orders typically incur an additional charge from your broker.



Risk can also be mitigated by the use of arbitrage, betting two ways simultaneously.


   Spread Betting Example  

Let’s assume that the price of ABC stock is $201.50 and a spread-betting company, with a fixed spread, is quoting the bid/ask at $200 / $203 for investors to transact on it. The investor is bearish and believes that ABC is going to fall below $200 so they hit the bid to sell at $200. They decide to bet $20 for every point the stock falls below their transacted price of $200. If ABC falls to where the bid/ask is $185/$188, the investor can close their trade with a profit of {($200 - $188) * $20 = $240}. If the price rises to $212/$215, and they choose to close their trade, then they will lose {($200 - $215) * $20 = -$300}.



The spread betting firm requires a 20% margin, which means the investor needs to deposit 20% of the value of the position at its inception, {($200 * $20) * 20% = $800, into their account to cover the bet. The position value is derived by multiplying the bet size by the stock’s bid price ($20 x $200 = $4,000).


   Spread Betting Benefits  
  Long/Short  

Investors have the ability to bet on both rising and falling prices. If an investor is trading physical shares, they have to borrow the stock they intend to short sell which can be time-consuming and costly. Spread betting makes short selling as easy as buying.


  No Commissions  

Spread betting companies make money through the spread they offer. There is no separate commission charge which makes it easier for investors to monitor trading costs and work out their position size.


  Tax Benefits  

Spread betting is considered gambling in some tax jurisdictions, and subsequently, any realized gains may be taxable as winnings and not capital gains or income. Investors who exercise spread betting should keep records and seek the advice of an accountant before completing their taxes.






Because taxation on winnings in some countries is far less than that on capital gains or trading income, spread betting can be quite tax-efficient, depending on one's location.


   Limitations of Spread Betting  
  Margin Calls  

Investors who don’t understand leverage can take positions that are too large for their account, which can result in margin calls. Investors should risk no more than 2% of their investment capital (deposit) on any one trade and always be aware of the position value of the bet they intend to open.


  Wide Spreads  

During periods of volatility, spread betting firms may widen their spreads. This can trigger stop-loss orders and increase trading costs. Investors should be wary about placing orders immediately before company earnings announcements and economic reports.


   Spread Betting vs. CFDs  

Many spread betting platforms will also offer trading in contracts for difference (CFDs), which are a similar type of contract. CFDs are derivative contracts where traders can bet on short-term price moves. There is no delivery of physical goods or securities with CFDs, but the contract itself has transferrable value while it is in force. The CFD is thus a tradable security established between a client and the broker, who are exchanging the difference in the initial price of the trade and its value when the trade is unwound or reversed.



Although CFDs allow investors to trade the price movements of futures, they are not futures contracts by themselves. CFDs do not have expiration dates containing preset prices but trade like other securities with buy and sell prices.



Spread bets, on the other hand, do have fixed expiration dates when the bet is first placed. CFD trading also requires that commissions and transaction fees be paid up-front to the provider; in contrast, spread betting companies do not take fees or commissions. When the contract is closed and profits or losses are realized, the investor is either owed money or owes money to the trading company. If profits are realized, the CFD trader will net the profit of the closing position, minus the opening position and fees. Profits for spread bets will be the change in basis points multiplied by the dollar amount negotiated in the initial bet.



Both CFDs and spread bets are subject to dividend payouts assuming a long position contract. While there is no direct ownership of the asset, a provider and spread betting company will pay dividends if the underlying asset does as well. When profits are realized for CFD trades, the investor is subject to capital gains tax while spread betting profits are usually tax-free.


   Spread Betting FAQs  
  What Is Financial Spread Betting?  

Spread betting is a way to bet on the change in the price of some security, index, or asset without actually owning the underlying instrument.


  Is Spread Betting Gambling?  

While spread betting can be used to speculate with leverage, it can also be used to hedge existing positions or make informed directional trades. As a result, many who participate prefer the term spread trading. From a regulatory and tax standpoint it may be considered a form of gambling in certain jurisdictions, since no actual position is taken in the underlying instrument.


  Is Financial Spread Betting Legal in the U.S.?  

The majority of U.S.-based brokers do not offer spread betting, as it may be illegal or subject to overt regulatory scrutiny in many U.S. states. As a result, spread betting is largely a non-U.S. activity.






Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Past performance is not indicative of future performance. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is a Spread?  

A spread can have several meanings in finance. Generally, the spread refers to the difference or gap that exists between two prices, rates, or yields.



In one of the most common definitions, the spread is the gap between the bid and the ask prices of a security or asset, like a stock, bond, or commodity. This is known as a bid-ask spread. Spreads can also be constructed in financial markets between two or more bonds, stocks, or derivatives contracts, among others.





Key Takeaways

In finance, a spread refers to the difference between two prices, rates, or yieldsOne of the most common types is the bid-ask spread, which refers to the gap between the bid (from buyers) and the ask (from sellers) prices of a security or assetA spread can also refer to the difference in a trading position – the gap between a short position (that is, selling) in one futures contract or currency and a long position (that is, buying) in another


   Understanding Spreads  

Spreads can also refer to the difference in a trading position – the gap between a short position (that is, selling) in one futures contract or currency and a long position (that is, buying) in another. This is officially known as a spread trade.



In underwriting, the spread can mean the difference between the amount paid to the issuer of a security and the price paid by the investor for that security—that is, the cost an underwriter pays to buy an issue, compared to the price at which the underwriter sells it to the public.



In lending, the spread can also refer to the price a borrower pays above a benchmark yield to get a loan. If the prime interest rate is 3%, for example, and a borrower gets a mortgage charging a 5% rate, the spread is 2%.



The spread trade is also called the relative value trade. Spread trades are the act of purchasing one security and selling another related security as a unit. Usually, spread trades are done with options or futures contracts. These trades are executed to produce an overall net trade with a positive value called the spread.






Spreads are often priced as a single unit or as pairs on derivatives exchanges to ensure the simultaneous buying and selling of a security. Doing so eliminates execution risk wherein one part of the pair executes but another part fails.


   Types of Spreads  

Spreads exist in many financial markets and vary depending on the type of security or financial instrument involved.



In many securities that feature a two-sided market, such as most stocks, there is a bid-ask spread that appears as the difference between the highest bid price and the lowest offer. The bid-ask spread is often used to judge a stock's liquidity.



Bid-ask spreads also feature prominently in forex trading, and can vary depending on a number of factors, including the liquidity of the currency pair, market conditions, and the broker's own pricing policies. Some brokers charge fixed spreads, while others charge variable spreads that can fluctuate based on market conditions. It's important for traders to understand the spreads that they are being quoted, as they can have a significant impact on the overall cost of a trade.





Infinite Strategies

Spreads can be constructed in any number of ways, and so a trader can use a spread strategy to profit from a bullish, bearish, or sideways market, or if the spread widens vs. narrows. Because of this, spreading is a very flexible tool used by traders.


  Interest Rate Spreads  

A yield spread is the difference between yields on differing debt instruments of varying maturities, credit ratings, issuer, or risk level, calculated by deducting the yield of one instrument from the other. This difference is most often expressed in basis points (bps) or percentage points. Yield spreads are commonly quoted in terms of one yield versus that of U.S. Treasuries, where it is called the credit spread. Some analysts refer to the yield spread as the “yield spread of X over Y.” This is usually the yearly percentage return on investment of one financial instrument minus the annual percentage return on investment of another.
The option-adjusted spread (OAS) measures the difference in yield between a bond with an embedded option, such as an MBS, with the yield on Treasuries. It is more accurate than simply comparing a bond’s yield to maturity to a benchmark. By separately analyzing the security into a bond and the embedded option, analysts can determine whether the investment is worthwhile at a given price. To discount a security’s price and match it to the current market price, the yield spread must be added to a benchmark yield curve. This adjusted price is called an option-adjusted spread. This is usually used for mortgage-backed securities (MBS), bonds, interest rate derivatives, and options. For securities with cash flows that are separate from future interest rate movements, the option-adjusted spread becomes the same as the Z-spread.
The zero-volatility spread (Z-spread) is the constant spread that makes the price of a security equal to the present value of its cash flows when added to the yield at each point on the spot rate Treasury curve where cash flow is received. It can tell the investor the bond's current value plus its cash flows at these points. The spread is used by analysts and investors to discover discrepancies in a bond's price. The Z-spread is also called the yield curve spread and zero-volatility spread. The Z-spread is used for mortgage-backed securities. It is the spread that results from zero-coupon treasury yield curves which are needed for discounting pre-determined cash flow schedule to reach its current market price. This kind of spread is also used in credit default swaps (CDS) to measure credit spread.


  Interest Rate Spread Example  

Suppose an investor is considering two bonds: a corporate bond issued by Company XYZ with a yield of 5%, and a U.S. Treasury bond with a yield of 3%. The yield spread in this case would be 2% (5% - 3%), indicating that the corporate bond is yielding 2% more than the U.S. Treasury bond.



If the investor believes that the risk of default on the corporate bond is low and the company is financially sound, they might decide to buy the corporate bond and sell the U.S. Treasury bond, in order to profit from the yield spread. This would be known as a "yield spread trade."



If the investor's assessment of the credit risk of Company XYZ is correct and the bond performs as expected, they will earn the 5% yield on the corporate bond and realize a profit from the yield spread of 2%. However, if the credit risk of Company XYZ turns out to be higher than expected and the bond defaults, the investor could lose their entire investment in the bond. This is why it is important for investors to carefully consider the credit risk of any bond before entering into a yield spread trade.


  Options Spreads  

Call spreads involve simultaneously buying and selling different calls on the same underlying. A bull call spread earns profit when the underlying rises while a bear call spread does so when the underlying falls.
Put spreads are similar but involve put options instead of calls. Like call spreads, there are bull put spreads and bear put spreads.
A long butterfly is a neutral to bullish strategy involving the simultaneous purchase of two options with lower strike prices, the sale of one option with a higher strike price, and the sale of another option with an even higher strike price. The goal is to profit from a narrow range of movement in the underlying asset. Variations if the butterfly include the condor, iron butterfly, and iron condor.
Calendar spreads are a strategy involving the simultaneous purchase of an option with a longer-term expiration date and the sale of an option with a shorter-term expiration date on the same underlying asset. The goal is to profit from a difference in the rate of time decay between the two options.
A box spread, or long box, is an options arbitrage strategy that combines buying a bull call spread with a matching bear put spread. A box spread can be thought of as two vertical spreads that each has the same strike prices and expiration dates, and will always be worth the distance between the strike prices at expiration,


  Options Spread Example  

An illustrative example of a spread used in trading is a bull call spread. This is a bullish options trading strategy that involves the purchase of a call option with a strike price that is below the current market price, and the simultaneous sale of another call option with a higher strike price.



For example, let's say that XYZ stock is currently trading at $50 per share. An investor who is bullish on XYZ stock might buy a call option with a strike price of $45 per share and sell a call option with a strike price of $55 per share. The goal of this bull call spread is to profit from an upward move in the price of XYZ stock, while limiting the potential loss if the stock does not move as expected.



If XYZ stock rises to $60 per share, the call option with the strike price of $45 per share would be in the money and have a value of $15 per share ($60 market price - $45 strike price). The call option with the strike price of $55 per share would also be in the money, but with a value of only $5 per share ($60 market price - $55 strike price). The net profit for the investor in this case would be the difference between the two options, or $10 per share.



If XYZ stock does not rise above the strike price of the call option that was sold (in this case, $55 per share), then both options would expire worthless and the investor would lose the premium paid for the call option that was purchased. This is why the bull call spread is considered a limited risk strategy.


   Spread Risks  

Spread trading, like any other form of trading, carries a number of risks that traders and investors should be aware of. For example, market risk can affect the value of the underlying assets and the profitability of the spread trade. Thus, if a trader enters into a bull call spread on a stock that they believe will rise in price, but the stock's price unexpectedly drops due to market conditions, the trader may suffer a loss on the spread trade. Likewise, if you bet that a spread will narrow but it widens, you can lose money.



In addition, there are other potential risks involved with spreads:



Liquidity risk can make it more difficult to buy or sell assets as needed, resulting in wider spreads and increased trading costs.
Credit risk can be a concern when spread trades involve the use of leverage or the trade of securities with lower credit ratings, as the risk of default or credit events can lead to significant losses.
Volatility risk can make it more difficult to accurately predict the direction and magnitude of price movements, which can impact the profitability of a spread trade.
Counterparty risk can also be an issue, as spread trades may involve the use of derivatives or other financial instruments that rely on the creditworthiness of a counterparty. If the counterparty fails to meet its obligations, the trader or investor may suffer significant losses.




How Do You Calculate a Spread in Finance?
Most basically, a spread is calculated as the difference in two prices. A bid-ask spread is computed as the offer price less the bid price. An options spread is priced as the price of one option less the other, and so on.




Why Would Someone Buy a Spread?
Traders look to profit from spreads by betting that the size of the spread will narrow or widen over time. If you buy a spread, you believe that the spread between two prices will widen. For example, if you believe that interest rates on junk bonds will rise faster than that of Treasuries, you can buy that yield spread.




How Do You Put on a Spread in Trading?
To put on a spread position in the markets, you generally buy one asset or security and simultaneously sell another, related asset or security. The resulting spread price is the difference between the price paid the proceeds received from the sale.


   The Bottom Line  

In finance, a spread refers to the difference or gap between two prices, rates, or yields. One common use of "spread" is the bid-ask spread, which is the gap between the bid (from buyers) and the ask (from sellers) prices of a security or asset. A spread can also refer to the difference in a trading position, such as the gap between a short position (selling) in one futures contract or currency and a long position (buying) in another, known as a spread trade. Spreads can also refer to the difference in the amount paid to the issuer of a security and the price paid by the investor for that security in underwriting, or the price a borrower pays above a benchmark yield to get a loan in lending. There are several different types of spreads, including yield spreads, option-adjusted spreads, and Z-spreads, which are used in different contexts in finance.
What Is a Stable Value Fund?  

A stable value fund is a portfolio of bonds that are insured to protect the investor against a decline in yield or a loss of capital. The owner of a stable value fund will continue to receive the agreed-upon interest payments regardless of the state of the economy.



Stable value funds are a common option in some retirement plans such as company 401(k) plans, especially aimed at those savers nearing retirement.





Key Takeaways

A stable value fund is an insured bond portfolio, popular with investors that have low risk tolerances.The insurance piece of these funds makes them nearly as safe as money market funds.A stable value fund is an option in many retirement plans, but often carries lower yields and higher fees.


   Understanding Stable Value Fund  

Stable value funds invest in high-quality government and corporate bonds, short-term, and intermediate-term. They are no different from any bond fund, except they are insured. An insurance company or bank is contractually obligated to protect the fund's investors from any loss of capital or interest.



The bonds in such a fund are sometimes called "wrapped" bonds, referring to the fact that they are insured. The insurance is commonly issued in the form of a so-called synthetic guaranteed investment certificate (GIC).



A stable value fund is inherently as safe an investment as a money market fund. Historically, such funds provide a slightly higher rate of return than money market funds.


   Pros and Cons of Stable Bond Funds  

Stable value funds remain just that: stable. They don't grow over time, but they don't lose value either.



In times of recession or stock market volatility, stable value funds are guaranteed. While many other investments drop in value, the owner of a stable bond fund continues to receive the agreed-upon interest payments and never loses principal regardless of the state of the economy. The insurer must compensate the fund for any losses.



Because of the insurance, however, these funds come with extra management costs and fees, which can be a drag on the already lower yields that these investments offer due to their low risk.


   How to Invest in a Stable Bond Fund  

A stable value fund is often an investment option in qualified retirement plans such as 401(k) plans. A stable value fund may also be an appealing alternative to lower-yielding vehicles such as money market funds for the portion of an investor's portfolio that is used to counter market volatility. Stable value funds can provide the essential elements of balance and stability in a portfolio weighted in growth investments.



However, there is a danger if a portfolio is weighted too heavily in lower-yielding investments such as stable value funds. The investor risks being squeezed by inflation down the road. A retirement income that seems sufficient initially can gradually become inadequate as the years pass and inflation mounts.



Most professional financial advisors recommend a portfolio that is a mix of safe but low-yielding investments and risky but potentially rewarding investments, with a gradual reweighting towards safety as the investor approaches retirement age.



Investors also should check the expenses associated with stable value funds. Historically, their fees have been in the low range compared to most mutual funds. However, insurance companies have been increasing their fees due to the perceived risks of a more volatile market.
What Is Stagflation?  

Stagflation is an economic cycle characterized by slow growth and a high unemployment rate accompanied by inflation. Economic policymakers find this combination particularly difficult to handle, as attempting to correct one of the factors can exacerbate another.



Once thought by economists to be impossible, stagflation has occurred repeatedly in the developed world since the 1970s oil crisis.



In mid-2022, many were saying that the United States had not entered a period of stagflation, but might soon experience one, at least for a short period. In June 2022, Forbes magazine argued that a period of stagflation was likely because economic policymakers would tackle unemployment first, leaving inflation to be dealt with later.





Key Takeaways

Stagflation is the simultaneous appearance in an economy of slow growth, high unemployment, and rising prices.Once thought by economists to be impossible, stagflation has occurred repeatedly in the developed world since the 1970s.Policy solutions for slow growth tend to worsen inflation, and vice versa. That makes stagflation hard to fight.












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   Understanding Stagflation  

The term stagflation was first used by British politician Iain Macleod in a speech before the House of Commons in 1965, a time of economic stress in the United Kingdom. He called the combined effects of inflation and stagnation a "'stagflation situation."



The term was revived in the U.S. during the 1970s oil crisis, which caused a recession that included five consecutive quarters of negative GDP growth. Inflation doubled in 1973 and hit double digits in 1974. Unemployment reached 9% by May 1975.



The effects of stagflation were illustrated by means of a misery index. This index, a simple sum of the inflation rate and the unemployment rate, tracked the real-world effects of stagflation on a nation's people.


  History of Stagflation  

Stagflation was once believed to be impossible. The economic theories that dominated academic and policy circles for much of the 20th century ruled it out of their models. In particular, the economic theory of the Phillips Curve, which developed in the context of Keynesian economics, portrayed macroeconomic policy as a trade-off between unemployment and inflation.



As a result of the Great Depression and the ascendance of Keynesian economics, economists became preoccupied with the dangers of deflation and argued that most policies designed to lower inflation tend to increase unemployment, while policies designed to lower unemployment raise inflation.



The advent of stagflation across the developed world later in the 20th century showed that this was not the case. Stagflation is a great example of how real-world experience can run roughshod over widely accepted economic theories and policy prescriptions.



Since that time, inflation has proved to be persistent even during periods of slow or negative economic growth. In the past 50 years, every declared recession in the U.S. has seen a continuous, year-over-year rise in consumer price levels.



The sole, partial exception to this is the lowest point of the 2008 financial crisis—and even then the price decline was confined to energy and transportation prices while overall consumer prices other than energy continued to rise.


   What Causes Stagflation?  

There is no real consensus among economists about the causes of stagflation. They have put forth several arguments to explain how it occurs, even though it was once considered impossible.   


  Blame Oil Price Shocks  

One theory states that stagflation is caused when a sudden increase in the cost of oil reduces an economy's productive capacity.



The oil crisis of the 1970s is the prime example. In October 1973, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) issued an embargo against Western countries. This caused the global price of oil to rise dramatically, therefore increasing the costs of goods and contributing to a rise in unemployment.



Because transportation costs rose, producing products and getting them to shelves became more expensive and prices rose even as people were laid off from their jobs.



Critics of this theory point out that sudden oil price shocks like those of the 1970s did not occur in connection with any of the simultaneous periods of inflation and recession that have occurred since the embargo.


  Blame Poor Economic Policies  

Another theory is that the confluence of stagnation and inflation is the result of poorly made economic policy. Harsh regulation of markets, goods, and labor in an otherwise inflationary environment are cited as the possible cause of stagflation.



Some point to former President Richard Nixon's policies, which may have led to the recession of 1970—a possible precursor to other periods of stagflation. Nixon put tariffs on imports and froze wages and prices for 90 days in an attempt to prevent prices from rising. Once the controls were relaxed, the rapid acceleration of prices led to economic chaos.



While appealing, this is an ad-hoc explanation of the stagflation of the 1970s which does not explain later periods that showed a simultaneous rise in prices and unemployment.


  Blame the Loss of the Gold Standard  

Other theories point to monetary factors that may also play a role in stagflation.



Nixon removed the last indirect vestiges of the gold standard, bringing down the Bretton Woods system that had controlled currency exchange rates.



This decision removed commodity backing for the currency and put the U.S. dollar and most other world currencies on a fiat basis, ending most practical constraints on monetary expansion and currency devaluation.


   Stagflation vs. Inflation  

Whatever the explanation, we have seen inflation persist during periods of economic stagnation since the 1970s. 



Even before the 1970s, some economists criticized the notion of a stable relationship between inflation and unemployment. They argue that consumers and producers adjust their economic behavior to rising price levels either in reaction to—or in expectation of—monetary policy changes.



As a result, prices rise in response to expansionary monetary policy without any corresponding decrease in unemployment, while unemployment rates rise or fall based on real economic shocks to the economy.



This implies that attempts to stimulate the economy during recessions could simply inflate prices without promoting real economic growth.  



Urbanist and author Jane Jacobs saw the disagreements between economists on the causes of the stagflation of the ‘70s as a misplacement of scholarly focus on the nation rather than the city as the primary economic engine. She believed that to avoid the phenomenon of stagflation, a country needed to provide an incentive to develop "import-replacing cities"—that is, cities that balance import with production. This idea, essentially the diversification of the economies of cities, was critiqued for its lack of scholarship by some, but held weight with others.


   Special Considerations  

The de facto consensus on stagflation among most economists and policymakers has been to essentially redefine what they mean by the term inflation in the era of modern currency and financial systems. Persistently rising price levels and falling purchasing power—i.e., inflation—are just normal conditions of good and bad economic times.



Economists and policymakers generally assume that prices will rise, and largely focus on accelerating and decelerating inflation rather than on inflation itself.



The dramatic episodes of stagflation in the 1970s may be historical footnotes today. But, since then, simultaneous economic stagnation and rising prices appear to be part of the new normal of economic downturns.




What Causes Stagflation?
Economists argue about the root causes of stagflation.In general, the stage is set for stagflation when a supply shock occurs. This is an unexpected event, such as a disruption in the oil supply or a shortage of essential parts. Such a shock occurred during the COVID-19 pandemic with a disruption of the flow of semiconductors that slowed the production of everything from laptops to cars and appliances.Such a shock can affect all of the factors that make up stagflation: inflation, employment, and economic growth.




Why Is Stagflation Bad?
Stagflation is a combination of three negatives: slower economic growth, higher unemployment, and higher prices.This is a combination that isn't supposed to occur, in the logic of economics. Prices shouldn't go up when people have less money to spend.




What Is the Cure for Stagflation?
There is no definitive cure for stagflation. The consensus among economists is that productivity has to be increased to the point where it will lead to higher growth without additional inflation. This would then allow for the tightening of monetary policy to rein in the inflation component of stagflation.That is easier said than done, so the key to preventing stagflation is for economic policymakers to be extremely proactive in avoiding it.
What Is Stagnation?  

Stagnation is a prolonged period of little or no growth in an economy often highlighted by periods of high unemployment. A rate of growth of less than 2-3% annually as measured by gross domestic product (GDP) is considered stagnation.



Stagnation can occur on a macroeconomic scale or in specific industries or companies. Stagnation may be either a temporary condition, such as a growth recession, temporary economic shock, or part of an economy's long-term structural condition.





Key Takeaways

Stagnation is a condition of slow or flat growth in an economy.Stagnation often involves substantial unemployment and under-employment, as well as an economy generally performing below its potential.Periods of stagnation can be short-lived or long-lasting, resulting in various economic and social effects.


   Understanding Stagnation  

Stagnation occurs within an economy when total output is either declining, flat, or growing slowly. Persistent unemployment, flat job growth, no wage increases, and an absence of stock market booms or highs are evidence of stagnation. As economies cycle through periods of recession to growth or from growth to recession, they may experience a time of stagnation.


  Cyclical Stagnation  

Stagnation can occur as a temporary condition in the course of an economic cycle or business cycle as a recession is ending and recovery is beginning. During these periods, both monetary policies and fiscal policies may be implemented to avoid prolonged stagnation.


  Economic Shocks  

Specific events or economic shocks can induce periods of stagnation which may be short-lived or have lasting effects, depending on the specific events and the resilience of the economy.



War and famine can be external factors that cause stagnation. A sudden increase in oil prices or a fall in demand for a key export could also induce a period of stagnation for an economy.


  Structural Stagnation  

A stagnant economy can result from longer-term, structural conditions in a society. Mature economies are characterized by slower population growth, stable economic institutions, and slower growth rates. Classical economists refer to this type of stagnation as a stationary state, and Keynesian economists consider it common in an advanced economy.



Institutional factors, such as entrenched power among incumbent special interest groups who oppose competition and openness, can induce economic stagnation. Western Europe experienced this type of economic stagnation during the 1970s and 1980s, dubbed Eurosclerosis.



Stagnation can afflict underdeveloped or emerging economies where stagnation persists due to the lack of change in political or economic institutions or regions with policies that discourage economic growth.


   Overcoming Stagnation  

Governments commonly implement a monetary policy or fiscal policy that spurs economic growth using tools such as:


  Increasing Government Spending  

Government investment in infrastructure encourages new business projects in construction and materials and increases job creation. As wages increase, additional money flows into the economy raising demand for goods and services and increasing aggregate economic growth.


  Decreasing Taxes and Regulation  

By reducing taxes and regulations, businesses or small business owners retain more capital for investment and innovation, improving growth in various sectors of the economy.


  Lowering Interest Rates  

When a central bank lowers interest rates, saving money becomes less attractive. People are more likely to increase their spending or invest in new businesses.


   Stagnation vs. Stagflation vs. Recession  

As an economy cycles from growth to decline, or decline to growth, it may have periods of stagnation, stagflation, or recession.



Stagnation is a prolonged period of slow economic growth as measured by gross domestic product (GDP) and may be accompanied by high unemployment.
Stagflation is a slow economic cycle that includes high inflation as well as high unemployment.
A recession is a significant and prolonged downturn in economic activity usually measured by two consecutive quarters of negative gross domestic product (GDP).


   Real-World Example of Stagnation  

The Great Recession, which began in 2008, kicked off a long period of economic stagnation, followed by a slow expansion from 2009 until the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020. GDP growth averaged 2.3% during this time. During the aftermath and recovery of the Great Recession, the Federal Reserve's monetary policy included quantitative easing to help the United States spur the stalled economy.




What Is the Average GDP During Periods of Stagnation?
Stagnation is a period of slow growth in an economy, characterized by a GDP under 2% or 3%.




How Are Investors Affected by Stagnation?
During a period of stagnation, the stock market sees fewer gains, and stock, mutual fund, and ETF prices often hold steady or fall slightly during stagnation.




How Are Workers Affected by Stagnation?
Stagnation is evident with higher unemployment and falling wages, making it difficult for individual workers to compete for jobs and wages.


   The Bottom Line  

Stagnation is a period of little or no growth in an economy characterized by a growth of less than 2-3% annually as measured by gross domestic product (GDP). Stagnation can be caused by business cycles, shocks to the economy, or the economic structure of a region. Governments commonly used both monetary and fiscal policies to reduce periods of prolonged stagnation.
What Is a Stakeholder?  

A stakeholder is a party that has an interest in a company and can either affect or be affected by the business. The primary stakeholders in a typical corporation are its investors, employees, customers, and suppliers.



However, with the increasing attention on corporate social responsibility, the concept has been extended to include communities, governments, and trade associations.





Key Takeaways:

A stakeholder has a vested interest in a company and can either affect or be affected by a business' operations and performance.Typical stakeholders are investors, employees, customers, suppliers, communities, governments, or trade associations.An entity's stakeholders can be both internal or external to the organization.Shareholders are only one type of stakeholder that firms need to be cognizant of.The public may also be construed as a stakeholder in some cases.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   Understanding Stakeholders  

Stakeholders can be internal or external to an organization. Internal stakeholders are people whose interest in a company comes through a direct relationship, such as employment, ownership, or investment.



External stakeholders are those who do not directly work with a company but are affected somehow by the actions and outcomes of the business. Suppliers, creditors, and public groups are all considered external stakeholders.






Stakeholder capitalism is a system in which corporations are oriented to serve the interests of all of their stakeholders.


   Example of an Internal Stakeholder  

Investors are internal stakeholders who are significantly impacted by the associated concern and its performance. If, for example, a venture capital firm decides to invest $5 million in a technology startup in return for 10% equity and significant influence, the firm becomes an internal stakeholder of the startup.



The return on the venture capitalist firm's investment hinges on the startup's success or failure, meaning that the firm has a vested interest.


   Example of an External Stakeholder  

External stakeholders, unlike internal stakeholders, do not have a direct relationship with the company. Instead, an external stakeholder is normally a person or organization affected by the operations of the business. When a company goes over the allowable limit of carbon emissions, for example, the town in which the company is located is considered an external stakeholder because it is affected by the increased pollution.



Conversely, external stakeholders may also sometimes have a direct effect on a company without a clear link to it. The government, for example, is an external stakeholder. When the government initiates policy changes on carbon emissions, the decision affects the business operations of any entity with increased levels of carbon.


   Issues Concerning Stakeholders  

A common problem that arises for companies with numerous stakeholders is that the various stakeholder interests may not align. In fact, the interests may be in direct conflict. For example, the primary goal of a corporation, from the perspective of its shareholders, is often thought to be to maximize profits and enhance shareholder value.



Since labor costs are unavoidable for most companies, a company may seek to keep these costs under tight control. This is likely to upset another group of stakeholders, its employees. The most efficient companies successfully manage the interests and expectations of all their stakeholders.






It is a widely-held myth that public corporations have a legal mandate to maximize shareholder wealth. In fact, there have been several legal rulings, including by the Supreme Court, brought on by other stakeholders, clearly stating that U.S. companies need not adhere to shareholder value maximization.


   Stakeholders vs. Shareholders  

Shareholders are only one type of stakeholder. All stakeholders are bound to a company by some type of vested interest, usually for the long term and for reasons of need. A shareholder has a financial interest, but a shareholder can also sell their stock in the company; they do not necessarily have a long-term need for the company and can usually get out at any time.



For example, if a company is performing poorly financially, the vendors in that company's supply chain might suffer if the company limits production and no longer uses its services. Similarly, employees of the company might lose their jobs. However, shareholders of the company can sell their stock and limit their losses.




What Are the Different Types of Stakeholders?
Examples of important stakeholders for a business include its shareholders, customers, suppliers, and employees. Some of these stakeholders, such as the shareholders and the employees, are internal to the business. Others, such as the business’s customers and suppliers, are external to the business but are nevertheless affected by the business’s actions. These days, it has become more common to talk about a broader range of external stakeholders, such as the government of the countries in which the business operates, or even the public at large.




What Is an Example of a Stakeholder?
In the event that a business fails and goes bankrupt, there is a pecking order among various stakeholders in who gets repaid on their capital investment. Secured creditors are first in line, followed by unsecured creditors, preferred shareholders, and finally owners of common stock (who may receive pennies on the dollar, if anything at all). This example illustrates that not all stakeholders have the same status or privileges. For instance, workers in the bankrupt company may be laid off without any severance.




What Are the Stakeholders in a Business?
Stakeholders in a business include any entity that is directly or indirectly related to how a company operates, whether it succeeds, or if it fails. First the owners of the business. These can include actively-involved owners as well investors who have passive ownership. If the business has loans or debts outstanding, then creditors (e.g., banks or bondholders) will be the second set of stakeholders in the business. The employees of the company are a third set of stakeholders, along with the suppliers who rely on the business for its own income. Customers, too, are stakeholders who purchase and use the goods or services the business provides.




Why Are Stakeholders Important?
Stakeholders are important for a number of reasons. For internal stakeholders, they are important because the business’s operations rely on their ability to work together toward the business’s goals. External stakeholders on the other hand can affect the business indirectly.For instance, customers can change their buying habits, suppliers can change their manufacturing and distribution practices, and governments can modify laws and regulations. Ultimately, managing relationships with internal and external stakeholders is key to a business’s long-term success.




Are Stakeholders and Shareholders the Same?
Although shareholders are an important type of stakeholder, they are not the only stakeholders. Examples of other stakeholders include employees, customers, suppliers, governments, and the public at large. In recent years, there has been a trend toward thinking more broadly about who constitutes the stakeholders of a business.


   The Bottom Line  

Stakeholders are individuals, groups or any party that has an interest in the outcomes of an organization. Stakeholders can be internal or external and range from customers, shareholders to communities and even governments.
What Is a Stalking Horse Bid?  

A stalking horse bid is an initial bid on the assets of a bankrupt company. The bankrupt company will choose an entity from a pool of bidders who will make the first bid on the firm’s remaining assets. The stalking horse sets the low-end bidding bar so that other bidders can’t underbid the purchase price.



The term “stalking horse” originates from a hunter trying to be concealed behind either a real or fake horse.





Key Takeaways

A stalking horse bid is an initial bid on the assets of a bankrupt company, setting the low-end bidding bar so that other bidders can’t underbid the purchase price. Other buyers can submit competing offers following the stalking horse bid. A stalking horse bidder is afforded various incentives, such as expense reimbursements and breakup fees.


   How a Stalking Horse Bid Works  

The stalking horse bid method allows a distressed company to avoid receiving low bids as it sells its final assets. Once the stalking horse bidder has made its offer, other potential buyers may submit competing bids for the company’s assets.



By setting the low end of the bidding range, the bankrupt company hopes to realize a higher profit on its assets. As bankruptcy proceedings are public, they allow for the disclosure of more information about the deal and the buyer than would be available in a private deal.






Stalking horse bidders can generally negotiate which particular assets and liabilities it hopes to acquire.


   Advantages of a Stalking Horse Bid  

As the stalking horse bid is the opening offer for the assets or company, the bankrupt company typically awards several incentives to the stalking horse bidder. These include expense reimbursements, breakup fees, and exclusivity for a specified period.



The stalking horse bidder also receives benefits for its efforts. It may negotiate the terms of the purchase, choose which assets and liabilities it wishes to acquire, and decide which executory contracts it is willing to cure and have acquired. Most important, the stalking horse bidder can negotiate bidding options that discourage competitors from bidding.


   Disadvantages of a Stalking Horse Bid  

The stalking horse bidder will exert great effort to gain the advantages of being the first bidder. As this is the opening bid, the stalking horse bidder must perform due diligence when determining its offer price and the fair value of the remaining assets. The stalking horse bidder must invest time and resources to do this research. The risk remains, however, that even with due diligence, the price bid may be more than the value of the assets. 



Additionally, there is risk associated with the stalking horse’s bid being public. Another party can merely prepare and submit a slightly higher offer, allowing it to capitalize on the stalking horse’s due diligence. Also, the stalking horse bidder may spend a good bit of time in negotiating the terms of the deal, which will further raise overhead costs.


   Example of a Stalking Horse  

According to reporting by PR Newswire, Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (now Bausch Health Companies Inc.) placed a stalking horse bid for certain assets of bankrupt Dendreon Corp. The initial offer was $296 million in cash on Jan. 29, 2015. However, due to other competitive bids, the price increased to $400 million one week later.



At a bankruptcy hearing on Feb. 20, 2015, the court formally approved Valeant’s role as a stalking horse bidder. The company was entitled to receive a breakup fee and expense reimbursement if its bid was unsuccessful. The court also set a deadline for additional bids. Ultimately, the bankruptcy judge approved the sale to Valeant for $495 million, with a new deal including other assets, according to reporting by The Wall Street Journal.




Is a stalking horse bid legally binding?
Yes. As a stalking horse bid must be approved by a bankruptcy court, it is legally binding.




What is a topping fee?
A topping fee is a percentage of the difference between the winning bid and the stalking horse bid that must be paid to the stalking horse bidder. This differentiates it from a breakup fee, which is a set amount.




What is a stalking horse candidate?
In politics, a stalking horse candidate is a sham candidate put forward to conceal another candidate or divide the opposition. In a bankruptcy proceeding, a stalking horse candidate is an interested buyer of the bankrupt company that is chosen by the company and put forward for approval by the bankruptcy court. By being allowed to set the initial bid, which other interested bidders cannot go below, it does in a sense divide the opposition by perhaps making it less likely that they will bid at all if they consider the initial bid too high.


   The Bottom Line  

A stalking horse is chosen by a bankrupt company to put in an initial bid on its assets. The bankruptcy court must approve the choice and the bid. The assets are then opened up to other bidders, who must make a higher bid to succeed in acquisition of said assets.



Being a stalking horse bidder has its perks, which include having control of many aspects of the bidding situation and fail-safe fees in the event that its bid doesn’t win. However, the downside is that the role comes with higher initial costs, incurred by extensive negotiations and conducting due diligence, upon which other bidders can then capitalize in making their bids.
What Is Standard & Poor's (S&P)?  

Standard & Poor's (S&P) is a company well known around the world as a creator of financial market indices—widely used as investment benchmarks—a data source, and an issuer of credit ratings for companies and debt obligations. It's perhaps best-known for the popular and often-cited S&P 500 Index. The company's roots date back to the 1860s. Since 2016, its official corporate name has been S&P Global.





Key Takeaways

Standard & Poor's (S&P) is a leading index provider and data source of independent credit ratings.The McGraw-Hill Cos. purchased S&P in 1966, and in 2016, the company became known as S&P Global.Standard & Poor's is one of the largest credit rating agencies, assigning letter grades to companies and countries and the debt they issue on a scale of AAA to D, indicating their degree of investment risk.The popular S&P 500 Index is perhaps Standard & Poor's best-known product.The S&P 500 is the basis for many investments, including futures contracts, mutual funds, and ETFs.


   Understanding Standard & Poor's (S&P)  

Standard & Poor's grew out of two companies: Poor's Publishing, a publisher of railroad industry guidebooks officially founded in 1868, and the Standard Statistics Bureau (later Company), founded in 1906, which published financial data on companies. In 1923, it released its first stock market indicator, which contained 233 companies. Poor's Publishing, meanwhile, issued its first rating in 1916. The two firms merged in 1941, to create Standard & Poor's.



The McGraw-Hill Cos. purchased S&P in 1966. In 2012, Standard & Poor’s combined its index operations with Dow Jones Indices (which McGraw-Hill owned) to become the leader in stock market indexes.



In 2016, McGraw Hill Financial rebranded itself as S&P Global. S&P Global divisions include S&P Global Ratings, S&P Global Market Intelligence, S&P Dow Jones Indices, and S&P Global Platts. The company has more than 1,500 credit analysts, and more than 1 million credit ratings have been issued on governments, corporations, the financial sector, and securities.



S&P is a major credit risk researcher, covering multiple industries, benchmarks, asset classes, and geographies. It issues credit ratings, ranging from AAA to D, on public and private company debt, as well as governments. It also offers ratings on short-term debt and provides outlook ratings that range from six months to two years.






S&P's major competitors for credit ratings include Moody's and Fitch, and for financial indices, Bloomberg General Business Services.






   Standard & Poor's Indexes  

The S&P 500 Index launched in March 1957. It was the first index to be computer-generated and to be published daily and has become a stand-in for the U.S. stock market itself.



The S&P 500 Index contains 500 of the largest stocks that trade on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and Nasdaq, making it a tool to gauge the overall health of large American companies. The S&P 500 is probably the single most popular equity index in the world and is used as a performance benchmark for a variety of mutual funds, ETFs, and other assets and securities.



Other popular indexes offered by S&P Global cover different sectors of the market and different market capitalizations. Large offerings from S&P Dow Jones Indices include the S&P SmallCap 600, the S&P MidCap 400, the S&P Composite 1500, and the S&P 900. Each represents a look at market health based on its sub-sector.


   S&P 500 Index Futures  

The first S&P 500 futures contracts were introduced by the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) in 1982, and carried a notional value of $250 times the value of the S&P 500. The CME added the E-mini contract—valued at $50 times the S&P 500—in 1997 to allow for smaller investments by a wider range of investors. The even smaller micro E-mini, with a multiplier of just $5, was introduced in 2019.



The "E" in E-mini stands for electronic, a reflection of the fact that when E-minis were launched in 1997 they traded exclusively on CME Globex, CME's electronic trading system, rather than in open outcry pits like other futures contracts. Many traders favored the E-mini over the standard contract not only for its smaller investment size but also for its liquidity. Consequently, CME delisted the standard contract in September 2021.



As with all futures, investors are only required to front a fraction of the contract value to take a position. This represents the margin on the futures contract. These margins are not the same as margins for stock trading. Futures margins show "skin in the game" that must be offset or settled.


   Standard & Poor's Underlying Ratings (SPURs)  

Standard & Poor's Underlying Ratings (SPURs) provide an opinion on a municipality's credit quality separate from guarantor or insurer credit enhancements. Municipal or other public sector bonds typically include credit enhancement which is used to obtain better terms by providing increased assurance that the borrower will honor its obligation through additional insurance or a third-party guarantee. Standard & Poor's issues a SPURs rating only at the request of the issuer/obligor and maintains surveillance of an issue with a published SPUR.


   Example of Standard & Poor's Ratings  

Standard & Poor's Global Ratings division ranks debt instruments, like bonds, and the companies that issue them, in terms of creditworthiness—defined as the likelihood of default or inability to pay debts in a timely manner. Similar to academic grades, each rating consists of a letter on a scale of A to D, sometimes augmented with a plus or minus sign or a number. The higher the grade, the lower the risk (in S&P's estimation).



A rating of BBB and above is called "investment grade"—the safest sort of investment. Ratings below that are considered "speculative"—a greater degree of risk.



The chart below displays Standard & Poor's rating system for short-term debt—bills, loans, and other obligations with a maturity of one year or less. These are the sort of instruments that money market funds and money market accounts often invest in.










S&P Ratings Scale for Short-Term Debt


Letter Rating
Investment Grade
Degree of Creditworthiness




 A–1
Investment
Strong


 A–2
Investment
Satisfactory


 A–3
Investment
Adequate


 B
Speculative
Currently meets commitments but faces uncertainties


 C
Speculative
Vulnerable to nonpayment


 D
Speculative
In default







What Does Standard and Poor's Mean?
Standard & Poor's (S&P) is a company, a leading index provider, and data source of independent credit ratings. The name comes from the 1941 merger of two financial data publications. Henry Varnum Poor's publication on railroad prices (dating back to 1860), and The Standard Statistics Bureau, which was founded in 1906. Sometimes a reference to "Standard & Poor's" can also mean the company's most famous index: the S&P 500, which tracks the performance of the 500 largest public companies in the U.S.




How Does Standard and Poor's Make Money?
Standard & Poor's is paid fees for its rating services by issuers of securities and debt obligations. In addition, companies and individuals often pay for its more detailed market intelligence and analysis reports, and subscribe to other research services.




What Companies Are in the S&P 500?
The S&P 500 consists of the 500 largest publicly-traded companies in the U.S. Many are highly familiar names: Microsoft, Apple, Exxon Mobile, Bank of America, Visa, and Coca-Cola.To qualify for the S&P 500 Index, a company must have at least 10% of its shares outstanding in the public market and have a market capitalization of at least $14.6 billion.




How Do I Find a Company's S&P Credit Rating?
You can find a company's S&P rating by going to the S&P Global Ratings website. Once you register for free with S&P Global Ratings' website, you can then look up a company.




Is BBB Investment Grade?
Yes, BBB does indicate investment grade. It is the lowest S&P rating to qualify as investment grade. It means a bond or an issuer "exhibits adequate protection parameters. However, adverse economic conditions or changing circumstances are more likely to weaken the obligor's capacity to meet its financial commitments on the obligation," as S&P puts it.


   The Bottom Line  

Standard & Poor's—officially, S&P Global—is a public company in the financial information and analytics business. Based in the U.S., but with offices around the world, it provides financial market research and intelligence, maintaining widely followed market and securities indexes—the best-known of which, the S&P 500 Index, acts as a barometer of the entire U.S. stock market.



In addition, Standard & Poor's is one of the largest credit rating agencies, assigning letter grades to companies and countries and the debt they issue.
What Is Standard Deduction?  

The term standard deduction refers to the portion of income not subject to tax that can be used to reduce your tax bill. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) allows you to take the standard deduction if you do not itemize your deductions using Schedule A of Form 1040 to calculate taxable income. The amount of your standard deduction is based on your filing status, your age, and whether you are disabled or claimed as a dependent on someone else’s tax return.





Key Takeaways

The standard deduction is the portion of income not subject to tax that can be used to reduce your tax bill.The IRS adjusts the standard deduction each year for inflation.The amount of your standard deduction is based on your filing status, age, and other criteria.Taxpayers can choose between a standard deduction and itemized deductions.Most individuals choose the standard deduction because they don’t have to keep track of every possible qualifying expense.


   Understanding the Standard Deduction  

Income tax is the amount of money that the federal or state government takes from your taxable income. It is important to note that taxable income and total income earned for the year are not the same. This is because the government allows a portion of the total income earned to be subtracted or deducted to reduce the income that is taxed. Taxable income is usually smaller than total income due to deductions, which help lower your tax bill.



The IRS allows taxpayers to choose between two different types of deductions—a set of itemized deductions and the standard deduction. The standard deduction is a certain figure set by the government that can be subtracted from your taxable income. When you claim this figure on your annual tax return, it reduces the amount of income on which you're taxed. The standard deduction is updated each year for inflation and reflects your tax filing status.



You can take advantage of an additional standard deduction if you are 65 or over at the end of the tax year (you are considered to be 65 on the day before your 65th birthday). People who are blind may claim an additional deduction, provided they are blind on the last day of the tax year. If you can be claimed as a dependent on someone else's tax return, your standard deduction for 2022 is limited to the greater of $1,150 or your earned income plus $400 (up to the amount of the basic standard deduction for your filing status). A dependent's standard deduction rises to $1,250 in 2023 or the earned income plus $400.



Standard deduction amounts for the most current tax years are listed below.






To qualify as blind, you must have a certified letter from an eye doctor stating that you have non-correctable 20/200 vision in your best eye or that your field of vision is 20 degrees or less.


   Special Considerations  

Not all taxpayers qualify for the standard deduction, which means these individuals can't claim this deduction. You can't claim it if you:



Are married and filing separately and your spouse itemizes their deductionsAre a nonresident or dual-status alien during the yearFile a return for less than 12 months because you change your annual accounting periodAre a trust, common trust fund, partnership, or an estate



If the total value of itemized deductions is higher than the standard deduction, you would itemize. Otherwise, you should opt for the standard deduction.






Students and business apprentices from India may be eligible to claim the standard deduction under Article 21 of the U.S.A.-India Income Tax Treaty.


   Standard Deduction Amounts  

New standard deduction amounts were introduced by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act at the end of 2017 and nearly doubled the previous amounts. They are set to expire on Dec. 31, 2025.



Here are the standard deduction amounts for the 2022 and 2023 tax years:










Standard Deductions for 2022 and 2023


 Filing Status
 2022 Standard Deduction
2023 Standard Deduction




Single
 $12,950
$13,850


Married Filing Separately
 $12,950
$13,850


Heads of Household
 $19,400
$20,800


Married Filing Jointly
 $25,900
$27,700


Surviving Spouses
 $25,900
$27,700






As noted above, the federal income tax system and some states have higher standard deductions for people who are at least 65 and for people who are blind. Under federal guidelines, if you are 65 or older or you are blind, you can claim an additional standard deduction of $1,400 for 2022 or $1,500 for 2023. Those amounts increase to $1,750 for 2022, and $1,850 for 2023, if you are unmarried and aren't a surviving spouse.



Standard deductions for an individual being claimed as a dependent cannot be more than $1,150 or the total of $400 plus the individual's earned income for 2022. The deduction increases to $1,250 for the 2023 tax year, while the total of $400 plus the earned income stays the same.



You can also increase your standard deduction by the net amount of a disaster loss, but the loss must happen in a federally declared disaster area.


   Standard Deduction vs. Itemized Deductions  

The biggest reason taxpayers use the standard deduction instead of itemized deductions is that they don’t have to keep track of every possible qualifying expense throughout the year. Many people may also find the standard deduction amount greater than the total that they could reach if they added up all their eligible tax-deductible expenses separately.



This may be especially true given that the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act limited total state and local tax deductions to $10,000. It also limited the mortgage interest deduction on properties bought after Dec. 15, 2017, to the first $750,000 of debt ($375,000 if married filing separately). The limit was $1 million under previous rules.



Whether you use the standard deduction or itemize your deductions is up to you, but you cannot do both. The itemized deduction option allows you to list all your tax-deductible expenses for the year, such as:



Property tax
Medical expenses
Eligible charity donations
Gambling losses
Other costs incurred that influence your bottom-line tax figure




What Is the Standard Deduction for 2022?
For tax year 2022, the standard deduction is $12,950 if you file as single or married filing separately. It's $19,400 for heads of household and $25,900 for married filing jointly or qualifying widow(er) taxpayers.




What Is the Standard Deduction for 2023?
For Tax Year 2023, the standard deduction is $13,850 if you file as single or married filing separately. It's $20,800 for heads of household and $27,700 for married filing jointly or qualifying widow(er) taxpayers.




What Can I Deduct if I Take the Standard Deduction?
You can claim above-the-line deductions including retirement plan contributions, health savings account (HSA) contributions, alimony, educator expenses, student loan interest, and health insurance premiums for individual health insurance policies if you are self-employed.
What Is Standard Deviation?  

Standard deviation is a statistic that measures the dispersion of a dataset relative to its mean and is calculated as the square root of the variance. The standard deviation is calculated as the square root of variance by determining each data point's deviation relative to the mean.



If the data points are further from the mean, there is a higher deviation within the data set; thus, the more spread out the data, the higher the standard deviation.





Key Takeaways:

Standard deviation measures the dispersion of a dataset relative to its mean.It is calculated as the square root of the variance.Standard deviation, in finance, is often used as a measure of a relative riskiness of an asset.A volatile stock has a high standard deviation, while the deviation of a stable blue-chip stock is usually rather low.As a downside, the standard deviation calculates all uncertainty as risk, even when it’s in the investor's favor—such as above-average returns.












Investopedia / Alex Dos Diaz


   What Does Standard Deviation Measure?  

Standard deviation is a statistical measurement in finance that, when applied to the annual rate of return of an investment, sheds light on that investment's historical volatility.



The greater the standard deviation of securities, the greater the variance between each price and the mean, which shows a larger price range. For example, a volatile stock has a high standard deviation, while the deviation of a stable blue-chip stock is usually rather low.


   Standard Deviation Formula  

Standard deviation is calculated by taking the square root of a value derived from comparing data points to a collective mean of a population. The formula is:


















Standard Deviation


=






∑



i


=


1



n





(



x


i



−



x


‾



)



2





n


−


1



















where:

















x


i



=


Value of the 



i



t


h




 point in the data set

















x


‾



=


The mean value of the data set
















n


=


The number of data points in the data set







\begin{aligned} &\text{Standard Deviation} = \sqrt{ \frac{\sum_{i=1}^{n}\left(x_i - \overline{x}\right)^2} {n-1} }\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &x_i = \text{Value of the } i^{th} \text{ point in the data set}\\ &\overline{x}= \text{The mean value of the data set}\\ &n = \text{The number of data points in the data set} \end{aligned}


​Standard Deviation=n−1∑i=1n​(xi​−x)2​​where:xi​=Value of the ith point in the data setx=The mean value of the data setn=The number of data points in the data set​


  Calculating standard deviation  

Standard deviation is calculated as follows:



Calculate the mean of all data points. The mean is calculated by adding all the data points and dividing them by the number of data points.Calculate the variance for each data point. The variance for each data point is calculated by subtracting the mean from the value of the data point. Square the variance of each data point (from Step 2).Sum of squared variance values (from Step 3).Divide the sum of squared variance values (from Step 4) by the number of data points in the data set less 1. Take the square root of the quotient (from Step 5). 


   Why Is Standard Deviation a Key Risk Measure?  

Standard deviation is an especially useful tool in investing and trading strategies as it helps measure market and security volatility—and predict performance trends. As it relates to investing, for example, an index fund is likely to have a low standard deviation versus its benchmark index, as the fund's goal is to replicate the index.



On the other hand, one can expect aggressive growth funds to have a high standard deviation from relative stock indices, as their portfolio managers make aggressive bets to generate higher-than-average returns.



A lower standard deviation isn't necessarily preferable. It all depends on the investments and the investor's willingness to assume risk. When dealing with the amount of deviation in their portfolios, investors should consider their tolerance for volatility and their overall investment objectives. More aggressive investors may be comfortable with an investment strategy that opts for vehicles with higher-than-average volatility, while more conservative investors may not.



Standard deviation is one of the key fundamental risk measures that analysts, portfolio managers, and advisors use. Investment firms report the standard deviation of their mutual funds and other products. A large dispersion shows how much the return on the fund is deviating from the expected normal returns. Because it is easy to understand, this statistic is regularly reported to the end clients and investors.


   Standard Deviation vs. Variance  

Variance is derived by taking the mean of the data points, subtracting the mean from each data point individually, squaring each of these results, and then taking another mean of these squares. Standard deviation is the square root of the variance.



The variance helps determine the data's spread size when compared to the mean value. As the variance gets bigger, more variation in data values occurs, and there may be a larger gap between one data value and another. If the data values are all close together, the variance will be smaller. However, this is more difficult to grasp than the standard deviation because variances represent a squared result that may not be meaningfully expressed on the same graph as the original dataset.



Standard deviations are usually easier to picture and apply. The standard deviation is expressed in the same unit of measurement as the data, which isn't necessarily the case with the variance. Using the standard deviation, statisticians may determine if the data has a normal curve or other mathematical relationship.



If the data behaves in a normal curve, then 68% of the data points will fall within one standard deviation of the average, or mean, data point. Larger variances cause more data points to fall outside the standard deviation. Smaller variances result in more data that is close to average.






The standard deviation is graphically depicted as a bell curve's width around the mean of a data set. The wider the curve, the larger a data set's standard deviation from the mean.


   Strengths of Standard Deviation  

Standard deviation is a commonly used measure of dispersion. Many analysts are probably more familiar with standard deviation than compared to other statistical calculations of data deviation. For this reason, the standard deviation is often used in a variety of situations from investing to actuaries.



Standard deviation is all-inclusive of observations. Each data point is included in the analysis. Other measurements of deviation such as range only measure the most dispersed points without consideration for the points in between. Therefore, standard deviation is often considered a more robust, accurate measurement compared to other observations.



The standard deviation of two data sets can be combined using a specific combined standard deviation formula. There are no similar formulas for other dispersion observation measurements in statistics. In addition, and unlike other means of observation, the standard deviation can be used in further algebraic computations.


   Limitations of Standard Deviation  

There are some downsides to consider when using standard deviation. The standard deviation does not actually measure how far a data point is from the mean. Instead, it compares the square of the differences, a subtle but notable difference from actual dispersion from the mean.



Outliers have a heavier impact on standard deviation. This is especially true considering the difference from the mean is squared, resulting in an even larger quantity compared to other data points. Therefore, be mindful that standard observation naturally gives more weight to extreme values.



Last, standard deviation can be difficult to manually calculate. As opposed to other measurements of dispersion such as range (the highest value minus the lowest value), standard deviation requires several cumbersome steps and is more likely to incur computational errors compared to easier measurements. This hurdle can be circumnavigated through the use of a Bloomberg terminal.






Consider leveraging Excel when calculating standard deviation. After entering your data, use the STDEV.S formula if your data set is numeric or the STDEVA when you want to include text or logical values. There are also several specific formulas to calculate the standard deviation for an entire population.


   Example of Standard Deviation  

Say we have the data points 5, 7, 3, and 7, which total 22. You would then divide 22 by the number of data points, in this case, four—resulting in a mean of 5.5. This leads to the following determinations: x̄ = 5.5 and N = 4.



The variance is determined by subtracting the mean's value from each data point, resulting in -0.5, 1.5, -2.5, and 1.5. Each of those values is then squared, resulting in 0.25, 2.25, 6.25, and 2.25. The square values are then added together, giving a total of 11, which is then divided by the value of N minus 1, which is 3, resulting in a variance of approximately 3.67.



The square root of the variance is then calculated, which results in a standard deviation measure of approximately 1.915.



Or consider shares of Apple (AAPL) for a period of five years. Historical returns for Apple’s stock were 88.97% for 2019, 82.31% for 2020, 34.65% for 2021, -26.41% for 2022 and, as of mid-April, 28.32% for 2023. The average return over the five years was thus 41.57%.



The value of each year's return less the mean were then 47.40%, 40.74%, -6.92%, -67.98%, and -15.57%, respectively. All those values are then squared to yield 22.47%, 16.60%, 0.48%, 46.21%, and 2.42%. The sum of these values is 0.882. Divide that value by 4 (N minus 1) to get the variance (0.882/4) = 0.220.



The square root of the variance is taken to obtain the standard deviation of 0.4690, or 46.90%.




What Does a High Standard Deviation Mean?
A large standard deviation indicates that there is a lot of variance in the observed data around the mean. This indicates that the data observed is quite spread out. A small or low standard deviation would indicate instead that much of the data observed is clustered tightly around the mean.




What Does Standard Deviation Tell You?
Standard deviation describes how dispersed a set of data is. It compares each data point to the mean of all data points, and standard deviation returns a calculated value that describes whether the data points are in close proximity or whether they are spread out. In a normal distribution, standard deviation tells you how far values are from the mean.




How Do You Find the Standard Deviation Quickly?
If you look at the distribution of some observed data visually, you can see if the shape is relatively skinny vs. fat. Fatter distributions have bigger standard deviations. Alternatively, Excel has built in standard deviation functions depending on the data set.




How Do You Calculate Standard Deviation?
Standard deviation is calculated as the square root of the variance. Alternatively, it is calculated by finding the mean of a data set, finding the difference of each data point to the mean, squaring the differences, adding them together, dividing by the number of points in the data set less 1, and finding the square root.


   The Bottom Line  

Standard deviation is important because it can help investors assess risk. Consider an investment option with an average annual return of 10% per year. However, this average was derived from the past three year returns of 50%, -15%, and -5%. By calculating the standard deviation and understanding your low likelihood of actually averaging 10% in any single given year, you're better armed to make informed decisions and recognizing underlying risk.
What Is the Standard Error?  

The standard error (SE) of a statistic is the approximate standard deviation of a statistical sample population.



The standard error is a statistical term that measures the accuracy with which a sample distribution represents a population by using standard deviation. In statistics, a sample mean deviates from the actual mean of a population; this deviation is the standard error of the mean.





Key Takeaways

The standard error (SE) is the approximate standard deviation of a statistical sample population.The standard error describes the variation between the calculated mean of the population and one which is considered known, or accepted as accurate.The more data points involved in the calculations of the mean, the smaller the standard error tends to be.












Investopedia / Joules Garcia


   Understanding Standard Error  

The term "standard error" is used to refer to the standard deviation of various sample statistics, such as the mean or median. For example, the "standard error of the mean" refers to the standard deviation of the distribution of sample means taken from a population. The smaller the standard error, the more representative the sample will be of the overall population.



The relationship between the standard error and the standard deviation is such that, for a given sample size, the standard error equals the standard deviation divided by the square root of the sample size. The standard error is also inversely proportional to the sample size; the larger the sample size, the smaller the standard error because the statistic will approach the actual value.



The standard error is considered part of inferential statistics—or, the conclusions drawn from the study. It represents the standard deviation of the mean within a dataset. This serves as a measure of variation for random variables, providing a measurement for the spread. The smaller the spread, the more accurate the dataset.






Standard error and standard deviation are measures of variability, while central tendency measures include mean, median, etc.


   Formula and Calculation of Standard Error  

Used in algorithmic trading, the standard error of an estimate can be calculated as the standard deviation divided by the square root of the sample size:



SE = σ / √n



where



σ = the population standard deviation√n = the square root of the sample size



If the population standard deviation is not known, you can substitute the sample standard deviation, s, in the numerator to approximate the standard error.


   Requirements for Standard Error   

When a population is sampled, the mean, or average, is generally calculated. The standard error can include the variation between the calculated mean of the population and one which is considered known, or accepted as accurate. This helps compensate for any incidental inaccuracies related to the gathering of the sample.



In cases where multiple samples are collected, the mean of each sample may vary slightly from the others, creating a spread among the variables. This spread is most often measured as the standard error, accounting for the differences between the means across the datasets.



The more data points involved in the calculations of the mean, the smaller the standard error tends to be. When the standard error is small, the data is said to be more representative of the true mean. In cases where the standard error is large, the data may have some notable irregularities.



The standard deviation is a representation of the spread of each of the data points. The standard deviation is used to help determine the validity of the data based on the number of data points displayed at each level of standard deviation. Standard errors function more as a way to determine the accuracy of the sample or the accuracy of multiple samples by analyzing deviation within the means.


   Standard Error vs. Standard Deviation  

The standard error normalizes the standard deviation relative to the sample size used in an analysis. Standard deviation measures the amount of variance or dispersion of the data spread around the mean. The standard error can be thought of as the dispersion of the sample mean estimations around the true population mean. As the sample size becomes larger, the standard error will become smaller, indicating that the estimated sample mean value better approximates the population mean.


   Example of Standard Error  

Say that an analyst has looked at a random sample of 50 companies in the S&P 500 to understand the association between a stock's P/E ratio and subsequent 12-month performance in the market. Assume that the resulting estimate is -0.20, indicating that for every 1.0 point in the P/E ratio, stocks return 0.2% poorer relative performance. In the sample of 50, the standard deviation was found to be 1.0.



The standard error is thus:



SE = 1.0/√50 = 1/7.07 = 0.141



Therefore, we would report the estimate as -0.20% ± 0.14, giving us a confidence interval of (-0.34 - -0.06). The true mean value of the association of the P/E on returns of the S&P 500 would therefore fall within that range with a high degree of probability.



Say now that we increase the sample of stocks to 100 and find that the estimate changes slightly from -0.20 to -0.25, and the standard deviation falls to 0.90. The new standard error would thus be:



SE = 0.90/√100 = 0.90/10 = 0.09.



The resulting confidence interval becomes -0.25 ± 0.09 = (-0.34 - -0.16), which is a tighter range of values.




What Is Meant by Standard Error?
Standard error is intuitively the standard deviation of the sampling distribution. In other words, it depicts how much disparity there is likely to be in a point estimate obtained from a sample relative to the true population mean.




What Is a Good Standard Error?
Standard error measures the amount of discrepancy that can be expected in a sample estimate compared to the true value in the population. Therefore, the smaller the standard error the better. In fact, a standard error of zero (or close to it) would indicate that the estimated value is exactly the true value.




How Do You Find the Standard Error?
The standard error takes the standard deviation and divides it by the square root of the sample size. Many statistical software packages automatically compute standard errors.


   The Bottom Line  

The standard error (SE) measures the dispersion of estimated values obtained from a sample around the true value to be found in the population. Statistical analysis and inference often involves drawing samples and running statistical tests to determine associations and correlations between variables. The standard error thus tells us with what degree of confidence we can expect the estimated value to approximate the population value.
What Is a Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) Code?  

Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) codes are four-digit numerical codes assigned by the U.S. government that categorize the industries to which companies belong, while also organizing industries by their business activities. The SIC codes were created by the U.S. government in 1937 to classify and analyze economic activity across various industries and government agencies, and to promote uniformity in the presentation of statistical data collected by various government agencies SIC codes have also been adopted in places outside the U.S., including in the U.K.





Key Takeaways

Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) codes are four-digit numerical codes that categorize the industries that companies belong to based on their business activities.Standard Industrial Classification codes were mostly replaced by the six-digit North American Industry Classification System (NAICS).Despite having been replaced, government agencies, including the SEC, and some companies still use SIC codes today.The first two digits represent the highest level business classification, while the subsequent two digits are used to further refine the identification.The government uses SIC codes to property assign the review of financial filings to the appropriate divisions to ensure all requirements are met.



However, Standard Industrial Classification codes were mostly replaced in 1997 by a system of six-digit codes called the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS). The NAICS codes were adopted in part to standardize industry data collection and analysis between Canada, the United States, and Mexico, which had entered into the North American Free Trade Agreement.



Despite having been replaced, government agencies and companies still use the SIC standardized codes today for classifying the industry that companies belong to by matching their business activity with like companies.


   Understanding Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) Codes  

The SIC system classifies the economy into 11 major divisions:



Agriculture, forestry, and fishingMiningConstructionManufacturingTransportation and public utilitiesWholesale tradeRetail tradeFinance, insurance, real estateServicesPublic administrationNonclassifiable establishments



These are then divided into 83 two-digit major groups, and further subdivided into 416 three-digit industry groups and then into more than 1,000 four-digit industries.



Every company has a primary SIC code that indicates its main line of business. The first two digits of the SIC code identify the major industry group, the third digit identifies the industry group, and the fourth digit identifies the specific industry.



The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is a major government agency that regulates the markets. The SEC still uses SIC codes. The SIC codes are listed in a company's electronic data gathering, analysis, and retrieval system filings (called EDGAR) to indicate the company's industry.


   SIC Codes vs. NAICS codes  

The SIC code system continues to remain the most popular industry classification system. The NAICS code system has been unable to fully replace it due to the SIC system's long history, and the reluctance of businesses and other organizations that have been long-term users of SIC codes to switch over to a new classification system.



Although the U.S. government stopped updating SIC codes as far back as 1987, private data organizations stepped in and continued to update the SIC system, including adding very specific additional classifications. As a result, at the most defined levels, there are currently over 10,000 six-digit SIC codes (compared with 1,066 NAICS codes).



With the increased degree of integration within the North American economy following the establishment of NAFTA, U.S. companies now have both a SIC code and a NAICS code.


   How SIC Codes are Used  

Businesses and the government use SIC codes in a number of ways, as discussed below.


  Businesses  

Companies use SIC codes to identify their existing customers and potential customers by industry.SIC codes can be used to classify companies for tax purposes.Banks and creditors use SIC codes to identify the industry a company belongs to when considered extending credit. SIC codes are used by professionals and businesses to create targeted marketing campaigns.Companies can identify the competition in their industry or region by searching for like companies via SIC codes.Businesses also use SIC codes to identify government contracts.


  Government  

The government uses SIC codes to organize and standardize key economic data for various Federal and state agencies as well as private companies.SIC codes make it easier to compare data across disparate government agencies.SIC codes are also used for tax classification.The SEC uses SIC codes when sorting company filings.


   How to Find Your SIC Code  

There are many different ways to find the most appropriate SIC code for a company. Examples of various usable resources include:



The United States Department or Labor maintains an online system search tool to search SIC codes by keywords.If you know your NAICS code, there are online resources to identify corresponding SIC codes.The Security and Exchange Commission publishes the report via PDF.


   How to Read SIC Codes  

Each digit within a SIC code has a meaning; to read a SIC code, each set of digits should be independently evaluated to determine the overall meaning of the code.


  The First Two Digits  

The first two numbers of a SIC code identifies the business's major sector group. Though the number of major groups fluctuates, there are typically less than 100 major groups. These major groups all fit into one of the 11 major divisions, and these first two digits define what industry the company is in.


  The Third Digit  

The third digit is the second independent feature that describes a company. This third digit further refines the business classification and is often referred to as the business industry group. For example, if code 23xx refers to apparel companies:



232x identifies men's and boy's furnishings.233x identifies women's and misses' furnishings.


  The Fourth Digit  

The last digit of a SIC code is the most specific identifier of a company. Factoring in this last digit, there are now over 1,000 combinations. For example, SIC code 2050 (emphasis on the final digit) represents bakery products, while SIC code 2052 represents cookie & cracker manufacturers. This fourth digit further refines the business classification into a very specific business category.


   Real-World Examples of SIC Codes  

Apple Inc.'s SEC filings show its SIC code as 3571 (electronic computers). The first two digits—35—identify its major industry group as "Industrial and Commercial Machinery and Computer Equipment," while the third digit—7—narrows its industry group down to "Computer and Office Equipment" and the final digit—1—classifies it as "electronic computers." Note that if the first two digits are between 20 and 39, these companies are classified in the manufacturing division or segment of the economy.



Despite the SIC codes having been replaced by NAICS, you can still search for them. Below is an image of the Standard Industrial Codes, along with their meaning, for the banking industry (taken from the SEC's website).



Bank of America Corporation (BAC), for example, would have the SIC code of 6021 because it's a national commercial bank.
State banks would have the SIC code of 6022.
Life insurance companies would be classified as 6311.















Examples of Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) codes from the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 Investopedia




How Do I Find My Company's SIC Code?
The United States Securities and Exchange Commission publicly issues a standard code list that can be used to identify a SIC code. The code list is more specifically reviewed and updated by the Division of Corporation Finance.




Who Needs a SIC Code?
All companies naturally have a SIC code, as there are over 1,000 total SIC codes possible. Companies that file public reports are often required to use SIC codes when reporting, as the SEC uses it as a basis for assigning review responsibility for company filing requirements.




What Is an Example of a SIC Code?
SIC code 6500 represents the entire real estate industry. SIC code 6510 identifies real estate operators, while SIC code 6512 further refines the classification to nonresidential buildings while 6513 further refines the classification to operators of apartment buildings.




What Does SIC Code Stand for?
SIC code stands for standard industrial classification (SIC) code This four digit-number identifies a very specific short descriptor of the type of business a company is engaged in.


   The Bottom Line  

To help identify the appropriate reviewer of company filings based on the industry a company operates within, the Securities and Exchange Commission publishes a listing of standard industrial classification (SIC) codes. When issuing reports, companies must report the SIC code that most closely identifies with their operations.
What Is Standard of Living?  

Standard of living refers to the quantity and quality of material goods and services available to a given population.





Key Takeaways


Standard of living is the material well being of the average person in a given population.
It is typically measured using gross domestic product (GDP) per capita.
Standard of living and quality of life utilize some of the same data, but standard of living represents a more physical aspect of life while quality of life represents the more intangible aspects.
One alternative standard of living data set is the Human Development Index (HDI), which uses many factors from life expectancy and education, to gross national income (GNI), and homicide rates.



   Understanding Standard of Living  

Standard of living focuses on basic material factors such as income, gross domestic product (GDP), life expectancy, and economic opportunity. It is closely related to quality of life, which can also explore factors such as economic and political stability, political and religious freedom, environmental quality, climate, and safety.



Standard of living is often used to compare geographic areas, such as the standard of living in the United States versus Canada, or the standard of living in St. Louis versus New York. Standard of living can also be used to compare distinct points in time.



For example, compared with a century ago, the standard of living in the United States has improved greatly. The same amount of work buys an increased quantity of goods, and items that were once luxuries, such as refrigerators and automobiles, are now widely available. Moreover, life expectancy has increased, and annual hours worked have decreased.



In a narrow sense, economists frequently measure standard of living using GDP. Per capita GDP provides a quick, rough estimate of the total amount of goods and services available per person. While numerous, more complex, and nuanced metrics of standard of living have been devised, many of them correlate highly with per capita GDP.






Standard of living is generally measured using per capita GDP.



Standards of living are usually higher in developed countries. In fact, basic measures of standard of living, such as per capita GDP, are often used to define the differences between more and less developed countries. Emerging market economies usually see rising standards of living over time as they grow and develop into modern, industrialized economies.


   Standard of Living Example  

One measure of standard of living is the United Nations' Human Development Index (HDI), which scores 189 countries based on factors including life expectancy at birth, education, and income per capita. As of 2019, the countries with the five highest HDI scores are Norway (0.957), Ireland and Switzerland (0.955), Hong Kong and Iceland (0.949), and Germany (0.947).



Conversely, the countries with the five lowest 2019 HDI scores are Niger (0.394), Central African Republic (0.397), Chad (0.398), Burundi and South Sudan (0.433), and Mali (0.434). The United States came in at #17 while China was #85.



To exemplify the difference between the scores of 0.957 and 0.394, Norway has a life expectancy at birth of 82.4 years, 18.1 expected years of schooling per citizen, gross national income (GNI) per capita of $66,494 (purchasing power parity-adjusted currency units), and an internet usage rate of 96.5% of its population. Niger, meanwhile, has a life expectancy at birth of 62.4 years, 6.5 expected years of schooling, a GNI per capita of $1,201, and an internet usage rate of 5.3%.



The U.S. scored seventeenth on the list, with a combined score of 0.926, a life expectancy at birth of 78.9 years, 16.3 expected years of schooling, and GNI per capita of $63,826.


   Standard of Living vs. Quality of Life  

The terms standard of living and quality of life are often believed to mean the same. While they may overlap, there is a difference between the two.



Standard of living generally refers to wealth, comfort, material goods, and necessities of certain classes in certain areas—or more objective characteristics—whereas the quality of life is more subjective and intangible, such as personal liberty or environmental quality. Characteristics that make up a good quality of life for one person may not necessarily be the same for someone else.
What Is Standardization?  

Standardization is a framework of agreements to which all relevant parties in an industry or organization must adhere to ensure that all processes associated with the creation of a good or performance of a service are performed within set guidelines.



Standardization ensures that the end product has consistent quality and that any conclusions made are comparable with all other equivalent items in the same class.





Key Takeaways

Standardization ensures that certain goods or performances are produced in the same way via set guidelines.Standardized lots are used in trading stocks, commodities, and futures to allow for greater liquidity, efficiency, and reduced costs.Standardization is used in accounting practices and for establishing quality and production standards in manufacturing. 


   How Standardization Works  

Standardization is achieved by setting generally accepted guidelines with regard to how a product or service is created or supported, as well as to how a business is operated or how certain required processes are governed. The goal of standardization is to enforce a level of consistency or uniformity to certain practices or operations within the selected environment.



An example of standardization would be the generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) to which all companies listed on U.S. stock exchanges must adhere. GAAP is a standardized set of guidelines created by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) to ensure that all financial statements undergo the same processes so that the disclosed information is relevant, reliable, comparable, and consistent.






Standardization ensures that certain goods or performances are produced in the same way via set guidelines.


   Examples of Standardization in Business  

Standardization can be found throughout the business world when companies want to achieve a consistent level of quality, production standards, manufacturing output, and brand recognition.


  Franchises  

For example, many fast-food franchises have detailed processes documented to make sure that a burger is prepared in the same manner, regardless of which establishment in its franchise a consumer visits.


  Product Standards  

Certain production and manufacturing businesses adhere to agency standards to ensure all products of the same category are created to the same specifications between different facilities or companies.



For example, the wood products industry participates in international standards to maintain consistency of like products. This can include references to acceptable product sizing, water-solubility, grading, and composite properties. These standards ensure that when a person goes to a retail store to purchase an item, such as a two-by-four, the sizing is consistent regardless of the store visited or the product manufacturer.


  Brand Names  

The marketing of products sold internationally may be standardized to keep a uniform image among the varying markets. For example, the Coca-Cola Company uses global standardization in marketing by keeping the appearance of the product relatively unchanged between different markets. The company uses the same design theme even when different languages are presented on the products. Coca-Cola's marketing also maintains a consistent theme to help reinforce the image it is presenting.


   Examples of Standardization in Trading  

Standardization is commonplace in the financial markets, which helps facilitate trades and financial transactions involving all of the participants, such as investors, brokers, and fund managers.


  Stock Orders  

In the stock market, the standard minimum stock order that can be placed through an exchange without incurring higher commission fees is 100 shares. These standardized lots are set by exchanges, such as the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), to allow for consistency and greater liquidity in the markets. The increased liquidity means that investors can buy and sell shares without delays or difficulties, which helps to reduce trading costs and creates an efficient process for all of the market participants involved.


  Futures and Options  

Standardization is also used in options and futures markets, which derive their values from underlying instruments such as stocks or commodities. For example, one equity option contract represents 100 shares of that stock. When an options investor trades an option contract, they know they're buying or selling 100 shares of the stock and determining the value based on the stock's current price in the market.



In the futures market, the standardized contract sizes vary depending on the type of contract that is traded. However, there are set parameters within the futures market that determine the size and delivery dates for those contracts.
What Is a Standby Letter of Credit (SLOC)?  

A standby letter of credit (SLOC) is a legal document that guarantees a bank's commitment of payment to a seller in the event that the buyer–or the bank's client–defaults on the agreement. A standby letter of credit helps facilitate international trade between companies that don't know each other and have different laws and regulations. Although the buyer is certain to receive the goods and the seller certain to receive payment, a SLOC doesn't guarantee the buyer will be happy with the goods. A standby letter of credit can also be abbreviated SBLC.


   How a Standby Letter of Credit Works  

A SLOC is most often sought by a business to help it obtain a contract. The contract is a "standby" agreement because the bank will have to pay only in a worst-case scenario. Although an SBLC guarantees payment to a seller, the agreement must be followed exactly. For example, a delay in shipping or a misspelling a company's name can lead to the bank refusing to make the payment.



There are two main types of standby letters of credit:



A financial SLOC guarantees payment for goods or services as specified by an agreement. An oil refining company, for example, might arrange for such a letter to reassure a seller of crude oil that it can pay for a huge delivery of crude oil.The performance SLOC, which is less common, guarantees that the client will complete the project outlined in a contract. The bank agrees to reimburse the third party in the event that its client fails to complete the project.






The recipient of a standby letter of credit is assured that it is doing business with an individual or company that is capable of paying the bill or finishing the project.



The procedure for obtaining a SLOC is similar to an application for a loan. The bank issues it only after appraising the creditworthiness of the applicant.












Investopedia / Laura Porter



In the worst-case scenario, if a company goes into bankruptcy or ceases operations, the bank issuing the SLOC will fulfill its client's obligations. The client pays a fee for each year that the letter is valid. Typically, the fee is 1% to 10% of the total obligation per year.


   Advantages of a Stand by Letter of Credit  

The SLOC is often seen in contracts involving international trade, which tend to involve a large commitment of money and have added risks.



For the business that is presented with a SLOC, the greatest advantage is the potential ease of getting out of that worst-case scenario. If an agreement calls for payment within 30 days of delivery and the payment is not made, the seller can present the SLOC to the buyer's bank for payment. Thus, the seller is guaranteed to be paid. Another advantage for the seller is that the SBLC reduces the risk of the production order being changed or canceled by the buyer.



An SBLC helps ensure that the buyer will receive the goods or service that's outlined in the document. For example, if a contract calls for the construction of a building and the builder fails to deliver, the client presents the SLOC to the bank to be made whole. Another advantage when involved in global trade, a buyer has an increased certainty that the goods will be delivered from the seller.



Also, small businesses can have difficulty competing against bigger and better-known rivals. An SBLC can add credibility to its bid for a project and can often times help avoid an upfront payment to the seller.
What Is Stare Decisis?  

Stare decisis is a legal doctrine that obligates courts to follow historical cases when making a ruling on a similar case. Stare decisis ensures that cases with similar scenarios and facts are approached in the same way. Simply put, it binds courts to follow legal precedents set by previous decisions.



Stare decisis is a Latin term meaning "to stand by that which is decided."


   Understanding Stare Decisis  

The U.S. common law structure has a unified system of deciding legal matters with the principle of stare decisis at its core, making the concept of legal precedent extremely important. A prior ruling or judgment on any case is known as a precedent. Stare decisis dictates that courts look to precedents when overseeing an ongoing case with similar circumstances.





Key Takeaways

Stare decisis is a legal doctrine that obligates courts to follow historical cases when making a ruling on a similar case.Stare decisis requires that cases follow the precedents of other similar cases in similar jurisdictions.The U.S. Supreme Court is the nation’s highest court; therefore, all states rely on Supreme Court precedents.












Investopedia / Nez Riaz


   What Makes a Precedent?  

A unique case with hardly any past reference material may become a precedent when the judge makes a ruling on it. Also, the new ruling on a similar present case replaces any precedent that has been overruled in a current case. Under the rule of stare decisis, courts are obligated to uphold their previous rulings or the rulings made by higher courts within the same court system.



For example, the Kansas state appellate courts will follow their precedent, the Kansas Supreme Court precedent, and the U.S. Supreme Court precedent. Kansas is not obligated to follow precedents from the appellate courts of other states, say California. However, when faced with a unique case, Kansas may refer to the precedent of California or any other state that has an established ruling as a guide in setting its precedent.



In effect, all courts are bound to follow the rulings of the Supreme Court, as the highest court in the country. Therefore, decisions that the highest court makes become binding precedent or obligatory stare decisis for the lower courts in the system. When the Supreme Court overturns a precedent made by courts below it in the legal hierarchy, the new ruling will become stare decisis on similar court hearings. If a case ruled in a Kansas court, which has abided by a certain precedent for decades, is taken to the U.S. Supreme Court and is then overturned by that court, the Supreme Court’s overrule replaces the former precedent, and Kansas courts would need to adapt to the new rule as precedent.


   Overturning a Precedent  

In rare cases, the Supreme Court has reversed its own previous rulings—David Schultz, professor of law at the University of Minnesota and professor of political science at Hamline University, reports that between1 789 to 2020, the Court did so 145 times out of "25,544 Supreme Court opinions and judgments after oral arguments." This amounts to barely one-half of one percent.



The most famous reversal to date, Schultz notes, is 1954's Brown v. Board of Education.That decision reversed the separate-but-equal doctrine ruling of Plessy v. Ferguson in 1896, which supported segregation.



The most recent and controversial overturning of a precedent occurred on June 24, 2022, when the Court reversed Roe v. Wade, the 1973 ruling that legalized abortion, making the Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health Organization the next major case to depart from stare decesis.


   Real World Examples  

Insider trading in the securities industry is the misuse of material nonpublic information for financial gain. The insider can trade the information for their portfolio or sell the information to an outsider for a cost. The precedent looked to by courts when dealing with insider trading is the 1983 case of Dirks v. SEC. In this case, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that insiders are guilty if they directly or indirectly received material benefits from disclosing the information to someone who acts on it. In addition, exploiting confidential information exists when the information is gifted to a relative or friend. This decision became precedent and is upheld by courts dealing with financial crimes that are similar in nature.


  Using stare decisis  

In the 2016 ruling of Salman v. the United States, the Supreme Court used stare decisis to make the ruling. Bassam Salman made an estimated $1.5 million from insider information that he received indirectly from his brother-in-law, Maher Kara, then a Citigroup investment banker. While Salman’s counsel believed that he should be convicted only if he compensated his brother-in-law in cash or kind, the Supreme Court judge ruled that insiders do not have to get something in return for divulging company secrets. Based on stare decisis, the confidential information given to Salman was considered a gift—as Dirks v. SEC makes it clear that fiduciary duty is breached when a tipper gives confidential information as a gift. Salman was therefore found guilty of insider trading.


  Considering precedent  

In 2014, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in New York overturned the insider trading conviction of two hedge fund managers, Todd Newman and Anthony Chiasson, stating an insider can be convicted only if the misappropriated information produced a real personal benefit. When Bassam Salam appealed his 2013 conviction using the Second Circuit's ruling as precedent, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit based in San Francisco did not abide by the Second Circuit’s precedent, which it was not obligated to uphold. The Appeals Court upheld the conviction ruling on Salman.



As noted above, Salman appealed that decision to the U.S. Supreme Court, stating that the Second Circuit’s ruling was inconsistent with the Supreme Court precedent set about by Dirks v. SEC and the Appeals Court had, therefore, not adhered to the principle of stare decisis. The Supreme Court disagreed and also upheld the conviction. "Salman’s conduct is in the heartland of Dirks’s rule concerning gifts," Justice Alito wrote.
What Is a Startup?  

The term startup refers to a company in the first stages of operations. Startups are founded by one or more entrepreneurs who want to develop a product or service for which they believe there is demand. These companies generally start with high costs and limited revenue, which is why they look for capital from a variety of sources such as venture capitalists.





Key Takeaways


A startup is a company that's in the initial stages of business.
Founders normally finance their startups and may attempt to attract outside investment before they get off the ground.
Funding sources include family and friends, venture capitalists, crowdfunding, and loans.
Startups must also consider where they'll do business and their legal structure.
Startups come with high risk as failure is very possible but they can also be very unique places to work with great benefits, a focus on innovation, and great opportunities to learn.













Investopedia / Laura Porter


   Understanding Startups  

Startups are companies or ventures that are focused on a single product or service that the founders want to bring to market. These companies typically don't have a fully developed business model and, more crucially, lack adequate capital to move onto the next phase of business. Most of these companies are initially funded by their founders.



Many startups turn to others for more funding, including family, friends, and venture capitalists. Silicon Valley is known for its strong venture capitalist community and is a popular destination for startups, but is also widely considered the most demanding arena.



Startups can use seed capital to invest in research and to develop their business plans. Market research helps determine the demand for a product or service, while a comprehensive business plan outlines the company's mission statement, vision, and goals, as well as management and marketing strategies.






The first few years are very important for startups This is the time that entrepreneurs should use to concentrate on raising capital and developing a business model.


   Special Considerations  

There are a number of different factors that entrepreneurs must think of as they try to get their startups off the ground and begin operations. We've listed some of the most common ones below.


  Location  

Location can make or break any business. And it's often one of the most important considerations for anyone starting up in the business world. Startups must decide whether their business is conducted online, in an office or home office, or in a store. The location depends on the product or service being offered.



For example, a technology startup selling virtual reality hardware may need a physical storefront to give customers a face-to-face demonstration of the product's complex features.


  Legal Structure  

Startups need to consider what legal structure best fits their entity. A sole proprietorship is suited for a founder who is also the key employee of a business. Partnerships are a viable legal structure for businesses that consist of several people who have joint ownership, and they're also fairly straightforward to establish. Personal liability can be reduced by registering a startup as a limited liability company (LLC).


  Funding  

Startups often raise funds by turning to family and friends or by using venture capitalists. This is a group of professional investors that specialize in funding startups. Crowdfunding has become a viable way for many people to get access to the cash they need to move forward in the business process. The entrepreneur sets up a crowdfunding page online, allowing people who believe in the company to donate money.



Startups may use credit to commence their operations. A perfect credit history may allow the startup to use a line of credit as funding. This option carries the most risk, particularly if the startup is unsuccessful. Other companies choose small business loans to help fuel growth. Banks typically have several specialized options available for small businesses—a microloan is a short-term, low-interest product tailored for startups. A detailed business plan is often required in order to qualify.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Startups  

There are a variety of advantages to working for a startup. More responsibility and opportunities to learn are two. As startups have fewer employees than large, established companies, employees tend to wear many hats, working in a variety of roles, which leads to more responsibility as well as opportunities to learn.



Startups tend to be more relaxed in nature, making the workplace more of a communal experience, with flexible hours, increased employee interaction, and flexibility. Startups tend to also have better workplace benefits, such as nurseries for children, free food, and shorter workweeks.



The work at startups can also be more rewarding as innovation is welcomed and managers allow talented employees to run with ideas with little supervision.



One of the primary disadvantages of a startup is increased risk. This primarily applies to the success and longevity of a startup. New businesses need to prove themselves and raise capital before they can start turning a profit. Keeping investors happy with the startup's progress is critical. The risk of shutting down or not having enough capital to continue operations before turning a profit is ever-present.



Long hours are characteristic of startups as everyone is working toward the same goal—to see the startup succeed. This can lead to high-stress moments and sometimes compensation that isn't commensurate with the hours worked. Competition is also always high as there tend to be a handful of startups working on the same idea.





Pros

More opportunities to learn
Increased responsibility
Flexibility
Workplace benefits
Innovation is encouraged
Flexible hours



Cons

Risk of failure
Having to raise capital
High stress
Competitive business environment





   Examples of Startups  

Dotcoms were a common startup in the 1990s. Venture capital was extremely easy to obtain during this time due to a frenzy among investors to speculate on the emergence of these new businesses. Unfortunately, most of these internet startups eventually went bust due to major flaws in their business plans, such as lacking a path to sustainable revenue. However, a handful of companies survived when the dotcom bubble burst. Amazon (AMZN) and eBay (EBAY) are just two examples.



Many startups fail within the first few years. That's why this initial period is important. Entrepreneurs need to find money, create a business model and business plan, hire key personnel, work out intricate details such as equity stakes for partners and investors, and plan for the long run. Many of today's most successful companies—Microsoft (MSFT), Apple (AAPL), and Meta (META), formerly Facebook, to name a few—began as startups and ended up becoming publicly traded companies.




How Do You Start a Startup Company?
The first step in starting a startup is having a great idea. From there, market research is the next step to determine how feasible the idea is and what the current marketplace looks like for your idea. After the market research, creating a business plan that outlines your company structure, goals, mission, values, and objectives, is the next step.One of the most important steps is obtaining funding. This can come from savings, friends, family, investors, or a loan. After raising funding, make sure you've done all the correct legal and paperwork. This means registering your business and obtaining any required licenses or permits. After this, establish a business location. From there, create an advertising plan to attract customers, establish a customer base, and adapt as your business grows.




How Do You Get a Startup Business Loan?
A startup can obtain a loan from a bank, certain organizations, or friends and family. One of the best and first options should be working with the U.S. Small Business Administration, which provides microloans to small businesses. The average SBA loan is $13,000 and the max loan amount is $50,000. These loans are usually from nonprofit community lenders and can be easier to obtain than traditional loans from banks.




What Are the Benefits of Working for a Startup?
The benefits of working at a startup include greater opportunities to learn, increased responsibility, flexible work hours, a relaxed work environment, increased employee interaction, good workplace benefits, and innovation.




How Do You Value a Startup Company?
Valuing a startup can be difficult as startups don't usually have longevity in which to determine their success. Startups also don't generate profits or even revenue for a few years after starting. As such, using the traditional financial statement metrics for valuations doesn't apply. Some of the best ways to value a startup include the cost to duplicate, market multiples, discounted cash flow, and valuation by stage.


   The Bottom Line  

Starting a company can be a difficult venture but a rewarding one. Having a great idea and attempting to bring it to market comes with a host of challenges, such as attracting capital, employees, marketing, legal work, and managing finances. Keep in mind, though, that startups lead to increased job satisfaction and the possibility of leaving a legacy.
What Is a State-Owned Enterprise?  

A state-owned enterprise (SOE) is a legal entity that is created by a government in order to partake in commercial activities on the government's behalf. It can be either wholly or partially owned by a government and is typically earmarked to participate in specific commercial activities.



SOEs are common across the globe, including in the United States, where mortgage companies Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae are considered government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs).





Key Takeaways

A state-owned enterprise (SOE) is an entity formed by the government for the purpose of engaging in commercial activities.The government usually takes either full or partial ownership of any SOEs, which are typically approved to engage in specific activities.SOEs represent the government in commercial endeavors and also sell physical resources to trading entities and corporations.SOEs operate in all countries but are especially prolific in China, the United States, New Zealand, South Africa, India, and Russia.


   Understanding State-Owned Enterprises (SOE)  

Also known as government-owned corporations (GOC), state-owned entities should not be confused with listed companies with stocks that are owned in part by a government body, as these companies are truly public corporations that happen to have a government entity as one of their shareholders.



The state-owned enterprise (SOE) is a global phenomenon, and such organizations exist in the United States, China, South Africa, Norway, and New Zealand. Legally, most SOEs qualify as business entities, providing them with all the rights and responsibilities associated with them. This means that they are normally required to follow any laws and regulations governing the operation of their business type, and they can also be held liable for their actions.





$45 trillion

The current value of state-owned enterprises' assets worldwide, as of 2020, according to the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The figure reflects a huge jump in size for SOEs over the last few years, with emerging markets leading the charge.


   State-Owned Enterprise Example  

Within the United States, mortgage companies Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae are some of the most recognized SOEs by its citizens, but SOEs are not limited to lending. In China, several companies have state backing, such as the Jin Jiang Hotel, which is owned and controlled by the government of Shanghai. The South Africa-based power utility Eskom is the 11th-largest company in the world in terms of electric-generating capacity, and it is an SOE of the South African government. Many public transportation systems and utilities are SOEs, as are postal services and some mining operations.


   SOEs and Corporatization  

At times, an SOE is created out of a government agency through a process called corporatization. This allows the agency to convert itself into a for-profit business. Often, the newly formed SOE still operates with government goals in mind, but officially it operates as a commercial enterprise. Sometimes, governments of developing countries will create a state-run business in a sector that it wishes to develop or exploit to boost their economic standing on the global stage, such as the oil industry in Brazil, or the telecom industry in Argentina.


   SOEs and Profit  

Even though an SOE is a for-profit business entity, there are some that do not produce a profit. For example, the U.S. postal system may be operating at a loss for long periods of time. While some SOEs may be permitted to fail, those of importance to the operation of the state may receive government funding to continue its operations — particularly those deemed as critical to a country's infrastructure. In these cases, the SOEs actually cost the government money instead of generating revenue. In the case of China, this has led some to accuse the government of artificially propping up so-called zombie corporations that would otherwise go out of business.
What Is a Statement of Retained Earnings?  

The statement of retained earnings (retained earnings statement) is a financial statement that outlines the changes in retained earnings for a company over a specified period. This statement reconciles the beginning and ending retained earnings for the period, using information such as net income from the other financial statements, and is used by analysts to understand how corporate profits are utilized.



The statement of retained earnings is also known as a statement of owner's equity, an equity statement, or a statement of shareholders' equity. Boilerplate templates of the statement of retained earnings can be found online. It is prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).


   Understanding Statement of Retained Earnings  

This statement of retained earnings can appear as a separate statement or as inclusion on either a balance sheet or an income statement. The statement is a financial document that includes information regarding a firm’s retained earnings, along with the net income and amounts distributed to stockholders in the form of dividends. An organization’s net income is noted, showing the amount that will be set aside to handle certain obligations outside of shareholder dividend payments, as well as any amount directed to cover any losses. Each statement covers a specified time period, as noted in the statement.





Key Takeaways

The statement of retained earnings is a financial statement prepared by corporations that details changes in the volume of retained earnings over some period.Retained earnings are profits held by a company in reserve in order to invest in future projects rather than distribute as dividends to shareholders.Analysts can look at the retained earnings statement to understand how a company intends to deploy its profits for growth.


   Retained Earnings  

These funds may also be referred to as retained profit, accumulated earnings, or accumulated retained earnings. Often, these retained funds are used to make a payment on any debt obligations or are reinvested into the company to promote growth and development.



Whenever a company generates surplus income, a portion of the long-term shareholders may expect some regular income in the form of dividends as a reward for putting their money in the company. Traders who look for short-term gains may also prefer getting dividend payments that offer instant gains. Dividends are paid out from profits, and so reduce retained earnings for the company.



The following options broadly cover some of the possibilities on how the surplus money allocated to retained earnings and not paid out as dividends can be utilized:



It can be invested to expand the existing business operations, like increasing the production capacity of the existing products or hiring more sales representatives.
It can be invested to launch a new product/variant, like a refrigerator maker foraying into producing air conditioners, or a chocolate cookie manufacturer launching orange- or pineapple-flavored variants.
The money can be utilized for any possible merger, acquisition, or partnership that leads to improved business prospects.
It can also be used for share buybacks.
The earnings can be used to repay any outstanding loan (debt) the business may have.





Important

Retained earnings refer to any profits made by an organization that it keeps for internal use.


   Benefits of a Statement of Retained Earnings  

The purpose of releasing a statement of retained earnings is to improve market and investor confidence in the organization. It is used as a marker to help analyze the health of a firm. Retained earnings do not represent surplus funds. Instead, the retained earnings are redirected, often as a reinvestment within the organization.



The retained earnings for a capital-intensive industry or a company in a growth period will generally be higher than some less-intensive or stable companies. This is due to the larger amount being redirected toward asset development. For example, a technology-based business may have higher asset development needs than a simple t-shirt manufacturer, as a result of the differences in the emphasis on new product development.



While a t-shirt can remain essentially unchanged for a long period of time, a computer or smartphone requires more regular advancement to stay competitive within the market. Hence, the technology company will likely have higher retained earnings than the t-shirt manufacturer.


   The Retention Ratio  

One piece of financial data that can be gleaned from the statement of retained earnings is the retention ratio. The retention ratio (or plowback ratio) is the proportion of earnings kept back in the business as retained earnings. The retention ratio refers to the percentage of net income that is retained to grow the business, rather than being paid out as dividends. It is the opposite of the payout ratio, which measures the percentage of profit paid out to shareholders as dividends.



The retention ratio helps investors determine how much money a company is keeping to reinvest in the company's operation. If a company pays all of its retained earnings out as dividends or does not reinvest back into the business, earnings growth might suffer. Also, a company that is not using its retained earnings effectively have an increased likelihood of taking on additional debt or issuing new equity shares to finance growth.



As a result, the retention ratio helps investors determine a company's reinvestment rate. However, companies that hoard too much profit might not be using their cash effectively and might be better off had the money been invested in new equipment, technology, or expanding product lines. New companies typically don't pay dividends since they're still growing and need the capital to finance growth. However, established companies usually pay a portion of their retained earnings out as dividends while also reinvesting a portion back into the company.
What Is Statistical Significance?  

Statistical significance is a determination made by an analyst that the results in the data are not explainable by chance alone. Statistical hypothesis testing is the method by which the analyst makes this determination. This test provides a p-value, which is the probability of observing results as extreme as those in the data, assuming the results are truly due to chance alone. A p-value of 5% or lower is often considered to be statistically significant.





Key Takeaways

Statistical significance is a determination that a relationship between two or more variables is caused by something other than chance.Statistical significance is used to provide evidence concerning the plausibility of the null hypothesis, which hypothesizes that there is nothing more than random chance at work in the data.Statistical hypothesis testing is used to determine whether the result of a data set is statistically significant.Generally, a p-value of 5% or lower is considered statistically significant. 












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding Statistical Significance  

Statistical significance is a determination of the null hypothesis, which suggests that the results are due to chance alone. A data set provides statistical significance when the p-value is sufficiently small.



When the p-value is large, then the results in the data are explainable by chance alone, and the data are deemed consistent with (while not proving) the null hypothesis.



When the p-value is sufficiently small (typically 5% or less), the results are not easily explained by chance alone, and the data are deemed inconsistent with the null hypothesis. In this case, the null hypothesis of chance alone as an explanation of the data is rejected in favor of a more systematic explanation.






Statistical significance is often used for new pharmaceutical drug trials, to test vaccines, and in the study of pathology for effectiveness testing and to inform investors on how successful the company is at releasing new products.


   Examples of Statistical Significance  

Suppose Alex, a financial analyst, is curious as to whether some investors had advance knowledge of a company's sudden failure. Alex decides to compare the average of daily market returns prior to the company's failure with those after to see if there is a statistically significant difference between the two averages.



The study's p-value was 28% (>5%), indicating that a difference as large as the observed (-0.0033 to +0.0007) is not unusual under the chance-only explanation. Thus, the data did not provide compelling evidence of advance knowledge of the failure. On the other hand, if the p-value were 0.01% (much less than 5%), then the observed difference would be very unusual under the chance-only explanation. In this case, Alex may decide to reject the null hypothesis and to investigate further whether some traders had advance knowledge.



Statistical significance is also used to test new medical products, including drugs, devices, and vaccines. Publicly available reports of statistical significance also inform investors on how successful the company is at releasing new products.



Say, for example, a pharmaceutical leader in diabetes medication reported that there was a statistically significant reduction in type 1 diabetes when it tested its new insulin. The test consisted of 26 weeks of randomized therapy among diabetes patients, and the data gave a p-value of 4%. This signifies to investors and regulatory agencies that the data show a statistically significant reduction in type 1 diabetes.






Stock prices of pharmaceutical companies are often affected by announcements of the statistical significance of their new products.




How Is Statistical Significance Determined?
Statistical hypothesis testing is used to determine whether the data is statistically significant. In other words, whether or not the phenomenon can be explained as a byproduct of chance alone. Statistical significance is a determination about the null hypothesis, which posits that the results are due to chance alone. The rejection of the null hypothesis is needed for the data to be deemed statistically significant.




What Is P-Value?
A p-value is a measure of the probability that an observed difference could have occurred just by random chance. When the p-value is sufficiently small (e.g., 5% or less), then the results are not easily explained by chance alone and the null hypothesis can be rejected. When the p-value is large, then the results in the data are explainable by chance alone, and the data is deemed consistent with (while proving) the null hypothesis. 




How Is Statistical Significance Used?
Statistical significance is often used to test the effectiveness of new medical products, including drugs, devices, and vaccines. Publicly available reports of statistical significance also inform investors on how successful the company is at releasing new products. Stock prices of pharmaceutical companies are often affected strongly by announcements of the statistical significance of their new products.
What Is Statistics?  

Statistics is a branch of applied mathematics that involves the collection, description, analysis, and inference of conclusions from quantitative data. The mathematical theories behind statistics rely heavily on differential and integral calculus, linear algebra, and probability theory.



People who do statistics are referred to as statisticians. They're particularly concerned with determining how to draw reliable conclusions about large groups and general events from the behavior and other observable characteristics of small samples. These small samples represent a portion of the large group or a limited number of instances of a general phenomenon.





Key Takeaways

Statistics is the study and manipulation of data, including ways to gather, review, analyze, and draw conclusions from data.The two major areas of statistics are descriptive and inferential statistics.Statistics can be communicated at different levels ranging from non-numerical descriptor (nominal-level) to numerical in reference to a zero-point (ratio-level).Several sampling techniques can be used to compile statistical data, including simple random, systematic, stratified, or cluster sampling.Statistics are present in almost every department of every company and are an integral part of investing as well.












Investopedia / Dennis Madamba


   Understanding Statistics  

Statistics are used in virtually all scientific disciplines, such as the physical and social sciences as well as in business, the humanities, government, and manufacturing. Statistics is fundamentally a branch of applied mathematics that developed from the application of mathematical tools, including calculus and linear algebra to probability theory.



In practice, statistics is the idea that we can learn about the properties of large sets of objects or events (a population) by studying the characteristics of a smaller number of similar objects or events (a sample). Gathering comprehensive data about an entire population is too costly, difficult, or impossible in many cases so statistics start with a sample that can be conveniently or affordably observed.



Statisticians measure and gather data about the individuals or elements of a sample, then they analyze this data to generate descriptive statistics. They can then use these observed characteristics of the sample data, which are properly called "statistics," to make inferences or educated guesses about the unmeasured (or unmeasured) characteristics of the broader population, known as the parameters.






Statistics informally dates back centuries. An early record of correspondence between French mathematicians Pierre de Fermat and Blaise Pascal in 1654 is often cited as an early example of statistical probability analysis.


   Descriptive and Inferential Statistics  

The two major areas of statistics are known as descriptive statistics, which describes the properties of sample and population data, and inferential statistics, which uses those properties to test hypotheses and draw conclusions. Descriptive statistics include mean (average), variance, skewness, and kurtosis. Inferential statistics include linear regression analysis, analysis of variance (ANOVA), logit/Probit models, and null hypothesis testing.


  Descriptive Statistics  

Descriptive statistics mostly focus on the central tendency, variability, and distribution of sample data. Central tendency means the estimate of the characteristics, a typical element of a sample or population. It includes descriptive statistics such as mean, median, and mode.



Variability refers to a set of statistics that show how much difference there is among the elements of a sample or population along the characteristics measured. It includes metrics such as range, variance, and standard deviation.



The distribution refers to the overall "shape" of the data, which can be depicted on a chart such as a histogram or a dot plot, and includes properties such as the probability distribution function, skewness, and kurtosis. Descriptive statistics can also describe differences between observed characteristics of the elements of a data set. They can help us understand the collective properties of the elements of a data sample and form the basis for testing hypotheses and making predictions using inferential statistics.


  Inferential Statistics  

Inferential statistics are tools that statisticians use to draw conclusions about the characteristics of a population, drawn from the characteristics of a sample, and to determine how certain they can be of the reliability of those conclusions. Based on the sample size and distribution, statisticians can calculate the probability that statistics, which measure the central tendency, variability, distribution, and relationships between characteristics within a data sample, provide an accurate picture of the corresponding parameters of the whole population from which the sample is drawn.



Inferential statistics are used to make generalizations about large groups, such as estimating average demand for a product by surveying a sample of consumers' buying habits or attempting to predict future events. This might mean projecting the future return of a security or asset class based on returns in a sample period.



Regression analysis is a widely used technique of statistical inference used to determine the strength and nature of the relationship (the correlation) between a dependent variable and one or more explanatory (independent) variables. The output of a regression model is often analyzed for statistical significance, which refers to the claim that a result from findings generated by testing or experimentation is not likely to have occurred randomly or by chance. It's likely to be attributable to a specific cause elucidated by the data.






Having statistical significance is important for academic disciplines or practitioners that rely heavily on analyzing data and research.


   Mean, Median, and Mode  

The terms mean, median and mode fall under the umbrella of central tendency. They describe an element that’s typical in a given sample group. You can find the mean descriptor by adding the numbers in the group and dividing the result by the number of data set observations.



The middle number in the set is the median. Half of all included numbers are higher than the median and half are lesser. The median home value in a neighborhood would be $350,000 if five homes were located there and valued at $500,000, $400,000, $350,000, $325,000, and $300,000. Two values are higher and two are lower.



Mode identifies the number that falls between the highest and lowest values. It appears most frequently in the data set.


   Understanding Statistical Data  

The root of statistics is driven by variables. A variable is a data set that can be counted that marks a characteristic or attribute of an item. For example, a car can have variables such as make, model, year, mileage, color, or condition. By combining the variables across a set of data, such as the colors of all cars in a given parking lot, statistics allows us to better understand trends and outcomes.



There are two main types of variables. First, qualitative variables are specific attributes that are often non-numeric. Many of the examples given in the car example are qualitative. Other examples of qualitative variables in statistics are gender, eye color, or city of birth. Qualitative data is most often used to determine what percentage of an outcome occurs for any given qualitative variable. Qualitative analysis often does not rely on numbers. For example, trying to determine what percentage of women own a business analyzes qualitative data.



The second type of variable in statistics is quantitative variables. Quantitative variables are studied numerically and only have weight when they're about a non-numerical descriptor. Similar to quantitative analysis, this information is rooted in numbers. In the car example above, the mileage driven is a quantitative variable, but the number 60,000 holds no value unless it is understood that is the total number of miles driven.



Quantitative variables can be further broken into two categories. First, discrete variables have limitations in statistics and infer that there are gaps between potential discrete variable values. The number of points scored in a football game is a discrete variable because :



There can be no decimals, andIt is impossible for a team to score only one point



Statistics also makes use of continuous quantitative variables. These values run along a scale. Discrete values have limitations, but continuous variables are often measured into decimals. Any value within possible limits can be obtained when measuring the height of the football players, and the heights can be measured down to 1/16th of an inch, if not further.






Statisticians can hold various titles and positions within a company. The average total compensation for a statistician with one to three years experience as of December 2021 was $84,958 as of May 2022. This increased to $111,846 with 15 years experience.


   Statistical Levels of Measurement  

There are several resulting levels of measurement after analyzing variables and outcomes. Statistics can quantify outcomes in four ways.


  Nominal-level Measurement  

There's no numerical or quantitative value, and qualities are not ranked. Nominal-level measurements are instead simply labels or categories assigned to other variables. It's easiest to think of nominal-level measurements as non-numerical facts about a variable.



Example: The name of the President elected in 2020 was Joseph Robinette Biden, Jr.


  Ordinal-level Measurement  

Outcomes can be arranged in an order, but all data values have the same value or weight. Although numerical, ordinal-level measurements can't be subtracted against each other in statistics because only the position of the data point matters. Ordinal levels are often incorporated into nonparametric statistics and compared against the total variable group.



Example: American Fred Kerley was the 2nd fastest man at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics based on 100-meter sprint times.


  Interval-level Measurement  

Outcomes can be arranged in order but differences between data values may now have meaning. Two data points are often used to compare the passing of time or changing conditions within a data set. There is often no "starting point" for the range of data values, and calendar dates or temperatures may not have a meaningful intrinsic zero value.



Example: Inflation hit 8.6% in May 2022. The last time inflation was this high was in December 1981.


  Ratio-level Measurement  

Outcomes can be arranged in order and differences between data values now have meaning. But there's a starting point or "zero value" that can be used to further provide value to a statistical value. The ratio between data values has meaning, including its distance away from zero.



Example: The lowest meteorological temperature recorded was -128.6 degrees Fahrenheit in Antarctica.


   Statistics Sampling Techniques  

It would often not be possible to gather data from every data point within a population to gather statistical information. Statistics relies instead on different sampling techniques to create a representative subset of the population that's easier to analyze. In statistics, there are several primary types of sampling in statistics.


  Simple Random Sampling  

Simple random sampling calls for every member within the population to have an equal chance of being selected for analysis. The entire population is used as the basis for sampling, and any random generator based on chance can select the sample items. For example, 100 individuals are lined up and 10 are chosen at random.


  Systemic Sampling  

Systematic sampling calls for a random sample as well, but its technique is slightly modified to make it easier to conduct. A single random number is generated and individuals are then selected at a specified regular interval until the sample size is complete. For example, 100 individuals are lined up and numbered. The 7th individual is selected for the sample followed by every subsequent 9th individual until 10 sample items have been selected.


  Stratified Sampling  

Stratified sampling calls for more control over your sample. The population is divided into subgroups based on similar characteristics. Then you calculate how many people from each subgroup would represent the entire population. For example, 100 individuals are grouped by gender and race. Then a sample from each subgroup is taken in proportion to how representative that subgroup is of the population.


  Cluster Sampling  

Cluster sampling calls for subgroups as well, but each subgroup should be representative of the population. The entire subgroup is randomly selected instead of randomly selecting individuals within a subgroup.






Not sure which Major League Baseball player should have won Most Valuable Player last year? Statistics, often used to determine value, is often cited when the award for best player is awarded. Statistics can include batting average, number of home runs hit, and stolen bases.


   Uses of Statistics  

Statistics is prominent in finance, investing, business, and in the world. Much of the information you see and the data you're given is derived from statistics, which are used in all facets of a business.



Statistics in investing include average trading volume, 52-week low, 52-week high, beta, and correlation between asset classes or securities.
Statistics in economics include GDP, unemployment, consumer pricing, inflation, and other economic growth metrics.
Statistics in marketing include conversion rates, click-through rates, search quantities, and social media metrics.
Statistics in accounting include liquidity, solvency, and profitability metrics across time.
Statistics in information technology include bandwidth, network capabilities, and hardware logistics.
Statistics in human resources include employee turnover, employee satisfaction, and average compensation relative to the market.




Why Is Statistics Important?
Statistics provide the information to educate how things work. They're used to conduct research, evaluate outcomes, develop critical thinking, and make informed decisions. Statistics can be used to inquire about almost any field of study to investigate why things happen, when they occur, and whether reoccurrence is predictable.




What's the Difference Between Descriptive and Inferential Statistics?
Descriptive statistics are used to describe or summarize the characteristics of a sample or data set, such as a variable's mean, standard deviation, or frequency. Inferential statistics employs any number of techniques to relate variables in a data set to one another. An example would be using correlation or regression analysis. These can then be used to estimate forecasts or infer causality.




Who Uses Statistics?
Statistics are used widely across an array of applications and professions. Statistics are done whenever data are collected and analyzed. This can range from government agencies to academic research to analyzing investments.




How Are Statistics Used in Economics and Finance?
Economists collect and look at all sorts of data ranging from consumer spending to housing starts to inflation to GDP growth. In finance, analysts and investors collect data about companies, industries, sentiment, and market data on price and volume. The use of inferential statistics in these fields is known as econometrics. Several important financial models, from CAPM to Modern Portfolio Theory (MPT) and the Black-Scholes options pricing model, rely on statistical inference.


   The Bottom Line  

Statistics is the practice of analyzing pieces of information that might seem conflicting or unrelated at first glance and on the surface. It can lead to a solid career as a statistician, but it can also be a handy metric in everyday life, perhaps when you’re analyzing the odds that your favorite team will win the Super Bowl before you place a bet, gauging the viability of an investment, or determining whether you’re being comparatively overcharged for a product or service.
What Is the Statute of Frauds?  

The statute of frauds is a legal doctrine requiring that certain types of contracts be in written form. The most common contracts covered by the statute of frauds include the sale of land, agreements involving goods worth $500 or more, and contracts lasting one year or more.



The purpose of the statute of frauds is to prevent fraud or other injury. These purposes are often described as being evidentiary and cautionary. The evidentiary function of the statute of frauds is to provide documentation that a legal, binding agreement exists. The cautionary function of the statute of frauds is meant to make each party more intent, serious, and deliberate in their transacting.



Statutes of fraud were adopted in the U.S. primarily as a common law concept—that is, as unwritten law. However, many states have formalized the concept by creating statutes. In a breach of contract case where the statute of frauds applies, the defendant may raise it as a defense where the burden of proof is on the plaintiff. The plaintiff must establish that a valid contract was indeed in existence.





Key Takeaways

The statute of frauds is a common law concept that requires written contracts for certain agreements to be binding.The statute applies to land sales and most purchases of goods of $500 or more.There are significant exceptions, such as oral contracts where work has already started.The statute of frauds varies somewhat between states in the United States.Many aspects of the statute of frauds are included in the Restatement (Second) of the Law of Contracts.


   History of the Statute of Frauds  

The statute of frauds has its roots in the Act for Prevention of Frauds and Perjuryes, which was passed by the English Parliament in 1677. The legislation, which stipulated that a written contract be used for transactions where a large amount of money was at stake, aimed to prevent some of the misunderstandings and fraudulent activity that can occur when relying on oral contracts.



Indeed, the English legal system of the time suffered from a lack of written evidence. The courts were clogged with lawsuits, and cases were often settled by using professional witnesses who were paid for their testimony. Perjury and corruption became the norm.



As the founders shaped the U.S. government, they drew on the 1677 Act to help shape how business transactions, and disputes over them, should be handled in the new world. Like their 17th-century British forebears, the founders decided that written and signed contracts minimized ambiguity by providing a clear record of the agreement. That reduced the opportunity for later litigation and simplified the settlement of such suits when they occurred.


   Contracts Covered by the Statute of Frauds  

As applied in the United States, the statute of frauds generally requires the following types of contracts to be written to be legally binding.



Any promises made in connection with marriage, including such gifts as an engagement ring.
Contracts that cannot be completed in less than one year.
Contracts for the sale of land—leases need not be covered unless they are for a year or more.
Promises to pay an estate’s debt from the personal funds of the executor. However, promises to pay such debt from the estate's funds are not subject to the statute of frauds.
Contracts for the sale of goods above a specific dollar amount, typically $500.
A contract in which one person promises to pay the debt of another person is considered a surety and is subject to the statute of frauds.






Various legislative bodies outline statute of frauds requirements. For example, the Restatement (Second) of the Law of Contracts is a legal treatise that oversees general principles of contract common law. In addition, Uniform Commercial Code (UCC) Article 2 outlines rules over the sale of goods.


   Requirements of the Statute of Frauds  

Not every written document is necessarily protected under a statute of frauds. Examples of some requirements the statute of frauds includes are:



Both parties must sign the agreement; otherwise, the agreement is not enforceable.If the quantity of goods shown in the written agreement is different than what is shown in writing.Written rejection of the agreement must be given within a specified time.Written correspondence must be properly dispatched; improper address or other failures to ensure safe transmission yield the correspondence invalid.A contract is invalid if a mistake by one party at the time the contract was made leads to a material effect on the agreed exchange.






Emails and invoices can sometimes satisfy statute-of-fraud requirements for an enforceable contract.


   Exceptions to the Statute of Frauds  

In some situations, agreements that would ordinarily require a written contract under the statute of frauds may be enforceable without them.



Several exceptions relate to situations in which oral agreements result in work beginning or financial outlays. Take a case in which steps are taken to create a series of specially manufactured items, such as monogrammed shirts. If the customer who commissioned them over the phone subsequently decides to cancel the order, they will likely still be responsible for at least partial payment.



The same will usually apply if improvements or modifications to a customer's possessions, based on oral agreements, are begun and then canceled. For example, take a situation in which a house painter purchases materials based on a homeowner’s request and begins to redecorate a house. If the homeowner reverses course and claims no firm painting agreement was in place, the contractor would likely prevail. That's because of what's known as promissory estoppel.



Promissory estoppel is defined as a principle of "fundamental fairness" intended to remedy a substantial injustice. There are also cases of partial performance. The fact that one party has already performed its responsibilities under the agreement may serve to confirm that a contract existed.


   Examples of the Statute of Frauds  

Provisions for the statute of frauds are enforced by states, based on federal codes. The Universal Commercial Code (UCC) in the U.S. provides a good example. It is the standardized set of business laws that regulate financial contracts. Most states have fully adopted the UCC.



In cases where articles of the UCC that affect the statute of frauds change, it may take time for those alterations to be reflected in every state's laws. Some states, like Louisiana, also have some long-standing variations from the norm in their statute of frauds and related regulations.






Before relying on the statute of frauds in any given situation, it is wise to research the statute of frauds provisions in your state or territory and seek legal advice as needed.




What Is the Meaning of Statute of Frauds?
The statute of frauds is written legislation or common law that requires that certain contracts be written to be valid. In addition, that written agreement often has stipulations such as delivery conditions or what must be included in that written agreement. The idea behind the statute of frauds is to protect parties entering into a contract from a future dispute or disagreement on the terms of the deal.




What Is an Example of Statute of Frauds?
Real estate such as the sale of land falls under the statue of frauds. In order to acquire land, you must enter into a written agreement. This is to ensure both parties agree to the exact area of land being sold, the exact terms of the agreement, and other relevant terms to the contract.




What Are Exceptions to the Statute of Frauds?
Some contracts, even when not written, may still be enforceable to protect one party that has been at a disadvantage. For example, one exception is when a seller makes specially manufactured goods for a buyer. If the seller can't easily sell the goods to others in the normal course of business, they are protected by different rules. Another exception is when payment has already been made and received by the seller. In this case, the seller is obligated to furnish the agreed terms to the buyer since they have already received payment.


   The Bottom Line  

The statute of frauds is a law that deems certain types of verbal contracts non-binding and unenforceable without written evidence to support them. As was the case when this concept was brought alive back in seventeenth-century England, its job is to make sure both parties in a contract are protected from fraudulent behavior.



Variations can exist, though, depending on where you live in the world. In the U.S., certain states have different rules regarding the statute of frauds. And there are situations when a written agreement can become void or an oral agreement enforceable, such as after payment is made or work commences.



Correction—May 14, 2023: A previous version of this article mistakenly stated the statute of frauds applied to goods worth more than $500. The statute applies to goods equal to $500 or more.
What Is a Statute of Limitations?  

A statute of limitations is a law that sets the maximum amount of time that parties involved in a dispute have to initiate legal proceedings from the date of an alleged offense, whether civil or criminal. The length of time the statute allows for a victim to bring legal action against the suspected wrong-doer can vary based on the jurisdiction and the nature of the offense.





Key Takeaways

The statute of limitations is a law that sets the maximum amount of time that parties in a dispute have to initiate legal proceedings.The length of time allowed under a statute of limitations varies depending upon the severity of the offense as well as the jurisdiction it is being disputed.Cases involving severe crimes, like murder, typically have no maximum period.Under international law, crimes against humanity, war crimes, and genocide have no statute of limitations.Statutes of limitations can also apply to consumer debt, which then becomes time-barred debt after the statute of limitations has passed.Proponents of statutes of limitations believe they are needed because after time, important evidence may be lost and the memories of witnesses can grow foggy.















Investopedia / Joules Garcia.


   Understanding a Statute of Limitations  

In general, the time allowed under a statute of limitations varies depending on the nature of the offense. In most cases, statutes of limitations apply to civil cases. For example, in some states, the statute of limitations on medical malpractice claims is two years, so that means you have two years to sue for medical malpractice. If you wait so much as one day over the two-year deadline, you can no longer sue for medical malpractice.


  Criminal Offenses  

Criminal offenses can also have statutes of limitations; however, cases involving serious crimes, like murder, typically have no maximum period under a statute of limitations. In some states, sex offenses involving minors, or violent crimes like kidnapping or arson, have no statute of limitations.


  International Law  

Under international law, crimes against humanity, war crimes, and genocide have no statute of limitations, according to the Convention on the Non-Applicability of Statutory Limitations to War Crimes and Crimes Against Humanity and Article 29 of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court.


  Consumer Debt  

Statutes of limitations can also apply to consumer debt because creditors have a certain amount of time in which to collect on the debt. The statute of limitations on consumer debt depends on the laws of the state in question, and the type of debt.



After the statute of limitations has passed, creditors can no longer sue to collect a time-barred debt, which means they cannot garnish your wages or put a lien against any of your personal assets, but that doesn’t mean that the consumer doesn’t owe the money. Making any payment towards a time-barred debt can restart the clock on the statute of limitations.



The statute of limitations on consumer debt typically ranges between three to six years but can be longer depending on the state, and the type of debt; whether it is an open-ended account, a written contract, an oral contract, or a promissory note.


   Benefits of a Statute of Limitations  

A statute of limitations is sometimes controversial due to cases where legal action cannot be brought against an offender because the maximum length of time has elapsed; however, proponents of a statute of limitations argue that, for practical reasons, it is most equitable to limit the initiation of legal proceedings to a reasonable period after the event.



As time goes on, important evidence may be lost, and the memories of witnesses can grow foggy. Legal proceedings brought under these circumstances may not be fair to all parties.



For a statute of limitations on consumer debt, the borrower benefits in that their financial situation improves in that the risk of having their wages garnished or liens on assets is no longer a burden. Their credit score may still suffer; however, after the statute of limitations of seven years, credit reports no longer show delinquent accounts.


   Real-World Example  

For example, on Feb. 14, 2019, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo signed into law the Child Victims Act, legislation that extends the statute of limitations on child molestation. The extension gives victims more time to seek criminal charges in general and allows for a one-time 12-month litigation window for adult victims of all ages who were abused as children.



Under the law, victims can seek criminal charges against their abusers until age 28, versus the previous cutoff of age 23, and can file civil suits until age 55. The law also includes a one-year litigation window for victims of any age to file lawsuits; one of the biggest sticking points that kept the law from being approved previously.



In the past, one of the biggest opponents to the extension of the statute of limitations and inclusion of the one-year litigation window was the Catholic Church. At the time, the Republican-controlled state Senate blocked the legislation for a decade, but after a Democratic majority was voted through, the Senate and Democrat-controlled Assembly approved the legislation.




What Is the Purpose of a Statute of Limitations?
The purpose of statutes of limitations is to protect would-be defendants from unfair legal action, primarily arising from the fact that after a significant passage of time, relevant evidence may be lost, obscured, or not retrievable, and the memories of witnesses may not be as sharp.




How Long Is the U.S. Statute of Limitations?
In general, U.S. federal law has a statute of limitations of five years, unless there is a specific legal language for offenses that stretches beyond that time. For example, for capital murder, there is no statute of limitations.




How Long Before a Debt Becomes Uncollectible?
The amount of time before debt becomes uncollectible varies on the type of debt as well as the state. This typically ranges from three to six years but can be as high as 15 years.


   The Bottom Line  

A statute of limitations is the length of time a civil or criminal case can be brought to legal proceedings. After the statute of limitations has passed, the parties in dispute can no longer take legal action.



Statutes of limitations also apply to consumer debt, after which creditors can no longer sue borrowers for delinquent accounts. The debt is still owed; however, creditors can no longer take action, such as garnishing wages. It is still recommended that all debt be paid off as there can be other repercussions in the future.
What Are Statutory Reserves?  

Statutory reserves are the funds that state insurance regulators require the insurance companies operating in their state to maintain at any given time. The purpose of statutory reserves is to help ensure that insurance companies have adequate liquidity available to honor all of the legitimate claims made by their policyholders.





Key Takeaways

Statutory reserves are the minimum amounts of cash and readily marketable securities that insurance companies must hold.They are mandated under state insurance regulations.Insurance companies are free to set their statutory reserves above the minimum level, using a principles-based approach.


   Understanding Statutory Reserves  

The McCarran-Ferguson Act, passed by Congress in 1945, gave states the authority to regulate insurance companies. To do business in a state, each insurer must be licensed by the state's insurance department and abide by its rules. Among those rules is how much money an insurer must keep in reserve to make sure that it will be able to pay its future claims.



Insurance companies collect insurance premiums from their customers and then invest those premiums in their general account to generate a return on investment (ROI). In theory, insurers might be tempted to invest a very large fraction of the premiums they collect in order to maximize their return. However, doing so could leave them with insufficient cash on hand to satisfy the claims made by their customers.



To prevent this from happening, state insurance regulators enforce minimum levels of liquidity that insurance companies must maintain. These statutory reserves can either be held in cash, or in readily marketable securities that can be converted into cash reliably and on short notice.



Statutory reserves apply to a range of insurance products, including life insurance, health insurance, property and casualty insurance, long-term care insurance, and annuity contracts. The requirements can vary from one state to another and according to the type of insurance product.


   Statutory Reserves Methods  

In setting the level of statutory reserves, state insurance regulators use two basic approaches.


  Rules-Based Approach  

The first of these is a rules-based approach, in which insurers are told how much of their premiums they must keep in reserve based on standardized formulas and assumptions. 


  Principles-Based Approach  

The second approach, known as the principles-based approach, gives insurers greater leeway in setting their reserves. Specifically, it allows them to set reserves based on their own experience, such as the actuarial statistics and past claims behavior of their own customers, provided that they are as large or larger than the reserves stipulated under the rules-based approach. 





Important

When an insurance company chooses to keep reserves that are in excess of the minimum amount required under the rules-based approach, these are referred to as non-statutory or voluntary reserves.



Regardless of the approach used to calculate them, statutory reserves will generally cause insurance companies to lose out on some potential profits. However, they benefit the insurance markets as a whole by making insurance customers more confident that their insurers will be able to withstand difficult economic circumstances and stand behind their policies.


   Example of Statutory Reserves  

Consider the case of XYZ Insurance. According to the statutory reserve requirements of its state insurance regulator, XYZ would be required to keep $50 million in reserve based on the rules-based approach. However, after considering the competitive landscape in its state and reviewing the past performance of its insurance portfolio, XYZ decided to use the principles-based approach and set its statutory reserves above the minimum required level.



Although the additional reserves would likely cost it in terms of lost investment income, XYZ reasoned that this more conservative approach would strengthen its image as a responsible insurer and make it well-positioned to navigate any potential recession or other economic headwinds.
What Is a Step-Up in Basis?  

Step-up in basis refers to the adjustment in the cost basis of an inherited asset to its fair market value on the date of the decedent's death. Cost basis is what determines the taxes owed, if any, when the asset is sold. Cost basis starts with the price paid for an asset, plus any additional costs added over time to improve or maintain the original asset.



Step-up in basis, or stepped-up basis, is what happens when the price of an inherited asset on the date of the decedent's death is above its original purchase price. The tax code allows for the raising of the cost basis to the higher price, minimizing the capital gains taxes owed if the asset is sold later.



The step-up in basis provision applies to financial assets like stocks, bonds, and mutual funds as well as real estate and other tangible property.



Of course, if the price of an asset has declined from that paid by the owner's date of death, the asset's cost basis would step down instead of stepping up for heirs.



In practice, most cost basis adjustments after death are steps up, not steps down. This is because financial assets passed on to heirs are often long-term holdings, while financial assets and real estate tend to have positive long-term rates of return.





Key Takeaways

A step-up in basis resets the cost basis of an appreciated inherited asset for tax purposes.The cost basis for heirs is raised to the asset's market value on the prior owner's date of death, reducing future capital gains taxes.Residents of states with community property laws or those with assets in community property trusts qualify for a step-up in basis on community property for the surviving spouse.Because the benefits of the step-up basis mostly accrue to the wealthiest households, opponents have tried to limit or eliminate the provision in recent years, without success. 












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   Understanding Step-Up in Basis  

A step-up in basis resets the cost basis of an inherited asset from its purchase (or prior inheritance) price to the asset's higher market value on the date of the owner's death.



For example, let's suppose Jane purchases a share of stock at $2 and dies when its market price is $15. Had Jane sold the stock before dying at $15, she (or her estate after her death) would be liable for capital gains tax on a gain of $13.



Instead, her heir's cost basis becomes $15 so that if the stock is later sold at that price no capital gains tax would be due. Capital gains tax that would have been due on the rise in the share price from $2 to $15 absent Jane's death is never collected.






Tax basis is the cost of an asset to its owner, as calculated and adjusted for tax purposes. It is used to assess capital gains as well as depreciation, amortization, and depletion.


   Step-Up in Basis for Community Property States and Trusts  

Residents of nine community property states including California can take advantage of the double step-up in basis rule. The rule provides a step-up in basis on community property—all assets accumulated during marriage other than inheritances and gifts—for the surviving spouse.



In other states, assets owned solely by the surviving spouse do not receive the step-up in basis, and jointly owned assets receive only half the step-up in basis they would receive in a community property state.



Alaska, Kentucky, South Dakota, and Tennessee allow residents as well as non-residents to create community property trusts qualifying held assets for community property tax treatment, including the double step-up in basis rule, under the federal tax code.



Consider Ann and Bill, a hypothetical married couple living in a common-law, rather than a community property state. They hold stock worth $200,000 in a joint brokerage account with a $100,000 cost basis at the time of Bill's death. Under common law principles legislated in most states, Ann would be entitled to a step-up in basis on Bill's half of the brokerage account, or $100,000 in current value, but not on her half. So the tax basis for stock held in the account would rise to $150,000 instead of $200,000 as in community property states or under community property trusts.



Note that the surviving spouse anywhere in the U.S. would be entitled like any other heir to the stepped-up basis on inherited assets previously owned solely by the deceased.


   Step-Up in Basis as a Tax Loophole  

The step-up in basis tax provision has often been criticized as a tax loophole for the wealthiest families. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) has estimated nearly half the aggregate benefit accrues to the top 5% of taxpayers by income. In 2020, the CBO estimated the provision's cost in foregone tax revenues at $110 billion over a 10-year period.



Some defenders of the stepped-up basis have argued that eliminating it might provide a disincentive to save and subject estates to double taxation in combination with the federal estate tax. Following the doubling of the federal estate tax exemption in 2017, a modern-era record-low 0.04% of adult deaths in 2020 produced an estate tax liability.



In 2021, a proposal backed by President Joe Biden and some Democrats that would have eliminated the step-up in basis for assets in excess of $2.5 million (plus $250,000 for a home) for a married couple failed to secure congressional approval.




How Is Step-Up in Basis Calculated?
A step-up in basis resets the cost basis of an inherited asset to its market value on the decedent's date of death. If the asset is later sold, the higher new cost basis would be subtracted from the sale price to calculate the capital gains tax liability, if any.




How Is Step-Up in Basis Treated Differently in Community Property States?
In community property states (and for assets in community property trusts) the surviving spouse receives a step-up in basis for community property. In the majority of states without community property provisions, jointly-owned property such as stock in a joint brokerage account would receive only half the step-up in cost basis compared with the same account in a community property state after the death of a spouse.




Is Step-Up in Basis a Tax Loophole?
The step-up in basis is a duly legislated provision of the U.S. tax code, though it is certainly responsible for a significant loss of public revenue. Because the exemption from capital gains taxes on assets held until death disproportionately benefits the wealthiest households, disparaging descriptions are likely to persist.
What Is the Sterling Overnight Interbank Average (SONIA) Rate?  

The Sterling Overnight Index Average (SONIA) rate is an interest rate benchmark used in the United Kingdom. It is the effective overnight interest rate paid by banks for unsecured transactions in the British sterling market. Administered by the Bank of England (BoE), SONIA is used to fund trades that occur overnight during off-hours. As such, it represents the depth of overnight business in the marketplace.





Key Takeaways

The Sterling Overnight Index Average, or SONIA, is an index of very short-term unsecured loans among and between U.K. financial institutions.Launched in 1997, several changes made in 2017 and 2018 have led the SONIA rate to be the preferred risk-free benchmark interest rate by U.K. securities dealers.This comes as the LIBOR rate, and its methodology for calculation, has come under criticism for fixing and fraud.


   Understanding the Sterling Overnight Interbank Average (SONIA) Rate  

The Sterling Overnight Interbank Average Rate is a benchmark interest rate used in the United Kingdom and operated by the BoE. It represents the average interest rate banks use when they borrow British currency from others, including financial institutions and large institutional investors.



Calculated each business day in London, SONIA fixing is the weighted average rate of unsecured overnight sterling transactions that are brokered by members of the Wholesale Markets Brokers’ Association. The daily SONIA rate as of June 15, 2023, was 4.42840%.



The eligibility criteria for transactions to qualify for SONIA include:



Must be reported to the BoE's Sterling Money Market daily data collection
Unsecured with a maturity date of one business day
Same-day settled transactions that take place between 12 a.m. and 6 p.m.
A minimum deal size for inclusion is £25 million



SONIA "provides up-front certainty of the amount of interest due at the end of the interest period." The rate also encouraged the formulation of the Overnight Index Swap (OIS) market, and the Sterling Money Markets in Great Britain. SONIA is a widely used benchmark for many financial transactions, among which is the reference rate for the sterling OIS market.






According to the BoE, the rate is "used to value around £30 trillion of assets each year."


   Calculating the SONIA Rate  

Here's how SONIA is calculated:



The central bank collects the previous day's data from banks and financial institutions by 7 a.m.Data is analyzed to ensure it is accurate and formatted properlyThe bank calculates the rate along with any other necessary statistics



Once all of these steps are completed, the BoE publishes the rate.


   History of the SONIA Rate  

SONIA was established in 1997 by the WMBA in the United Kingdom. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the U.K. regulated the WMBA as a calculation and publication agent. The WMBA had no sterling overnight funding rate before SONIA. This created volatility in the country's overnight interest rates. The creation of SONIA brought stability to overnight rates.



The rate is managed and operated by the BoE, the country's central bank, which took control of the rate in April 2016. The central bank made changes to the way it calculates SONIA in April 2018 and began publishing the SONIA Compounded Index on a daily basis in August 2020.



In April 2017, the Working Group on Sterling Risk-Free Reference Rates, which is a group of active, influential dealers in the sterling interest rate swap market, announced SONIA would be its preferred, near-risk-free interest rate benchmark. This change impacted sterling derivatives and related financial contracts. It also provided an alternative interest rate to the dominant London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). To that end, the FCA announced it would no longer require banks to submit LIBOR quotes after 2021.






SONIA provided traders and financial institutions with an alternative to the LIBOR as a benchmark for short-term financial transactions. All contracts using LIBOR are to be wrapped up by June 30, 2023. LIBOR will be replaced by the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR).


  Changes to the SONIA Rate  

The Bank of England reported several changes that became valid as of April 2018:



SONIA was expanded to include overnight unsecured transactions which will be negotiated bilaterally as well as those arranged via brokers. They now collect data using their Sterling Money Market data collection system.
The bank uses a volume-weighted trimmed mean method for calculating the rate.
The SONIA rate appears on the business day after the day the rate relates at 9 a.m. This delayed publication allows the bank to account for a higher volume of activity. 




What Is the Sterling Overnight Interbank Average Rate?
The Sterling Overnight Interbank Average rate is a benchmark interest rate used in the United Kingdom. The rate, which is managed, calculated, and published by the Bank of England, is the overnight interest rate that banks and other financial institutions pay for unsecured transactions in the British sterling market. Transactions must meet certain criteria to qualify. Among them, transactions must be executed between a certain time frame (12 a.m. and 6 p.m.) and must be worth at least £25 million.




What Is the Current SONIA Rate?
The SONIA rate calculated, published, and set on June 15, 2023, was 4.42840%.




Who Oversees SONIA?
The Bank of England manages and operates the Sterling Overnight Interbank Average rate. It took control of SONIA in 2016 and made changes to its methodology two years later. But it was established by Wholesale Markets Brokers’ Association in 1997. Prior to this, there was no such rate. As such, there was a greater degree of volatility in the overnight interest rate environment in the United Kingdom. SONIA, though, brought more stability to these rates. It is now used as a broad benchmark for different types of unsecured financial transactions.


   The Bottom Line  

The Bank of England is responsible for publishing the SONIA rate, which is the interest rate benchmark used by banks for different unsecured financial transactions in the overnight sterling market. It provides some degree of stability to the country's overnight market and represents the depth of overnight business in the country's financial markets.
What Is the Sticky Wage Theory?  

The sticky wage theory hypothesizes that employee pay tends to respond slowly to changes in company performance or to the economy. According to the theory, when unemployment rises, the wages of those workers that remain employed tend to stay the same or grow at a slower rate rather than falling with the decrease in demand for labor. Specifically, wages are often said to be sticky-down, meaning that they can move up easily but move down only with difficulty.



The theory is attributed to the economist John Maynard Keynes, who called the phenomenon “nominal rigidity" of wages.





Key Takeaways

Sticky wage theory argues that employee pay is resistant to decline even under deteriorating economic conditions.This is because workers will fight against a reduction in pay, and so a firm will seek to reduce costs elsewhere, including via layoffs, if profitability falls.Because wages tend to be "sticky-down", real wages are instead eroded through the effects of inflation.A key piece of Keynesian economic theory, "stickiness" has been seen in other areas as well such as in certain prices and taxation levels.


   Understanding Sticky Wage Theory  

Stickiness is a theoretical market condition wherein some nominal price resists change. While it often apply to wages, stickiness may also often be used in reference to prices within a market, which is also often called price stickiness.



The aggregate price level, or average level of prices within a market, can become sticky due to an asymmetry between the rigidity and flexibility in pricing. This asymmetry often means that prices will respond to factors that allow them to go up, but will resist those forces acting to push them down. This means that levels will not respond quickly to large negative shifts in the economy as they otherwise would. Wages are often said to work in the same way: people are happy to get a raise, but will fight against a reduction in pay.



Wage stickiness is a popular theory accepted by many economists, although some purist neoclassical economists doubt its robustness. Proponents of the theory have posed a number of reasons as to why wages are sticky. These include the idea that workers are much more willing to accept pay raises than cuts, that some workers are union members with long-term contracts or collective bargaining power, and that a company may not want to expose itself to the bad press or negative image associated with wage cuts.



Stickiness is an important concept in macroeconomics, particularly so in Keynesian macroeconomics and New Keynesian economics. Without stickiness, wages would always adjust in more or less real-time with the market and bring about relatively constant economic equilibrium. With a disruption in the market would come proportionate wage reductions without much job loss. Instead, due to stickiness, in the event of a disruption, wages are more likely to remain where they are and, instead, firms are more likely to trim employment. This tendency of stickiness may explain why markets are slow to reach equilibrium, if ever.






Prices of goods are generally thought of as not being as sticky as wages are, as the prices of goods often change easily and frequently in response to changes in supply and demand.


   Sticky Wage Theory in Context  

According to sticky wage theory, when stickiness enters the market a change in one direction will be favored over a change in the other. Since wages are held to be sticky-down, wage movements will trend in an upward direction more often than downward, leading to an average trend of upward movement in wages. This tendency is often referred to as “creep” (price creep when in reference to prices) or as the ratchet effect. Some economists have also theorized that stickiness can, in effect, be contagious, spilling from an affected area of the market into other unaffected areas. Economists have also warned, however, that such stickiness is only an illusion, since real income will be reduced in terms of buying power as a result of inflation over time. This is known as wage-push inflation.



The entry of wage-stickiness into one area or industry sector will often bring about stickiness into other areas due to competition for jobs and companies’ efforts to keep wages competitive.



Stickiness is also thought to have some other relatively wide-sweeping effects on the global economy. For example, in a phenomenon known as overshooting, foreign currency exchange rates may often overreact in an attempt to account for price stickiness, which can lead to a substantial degree of volatility in exchange rates around the world.


   Sticky Wage Theory and Employment  

Employment rates are thought to be affected by the distortions in the job market produced by sticky wages. For example, in the event of a recession, like the Great Recession of 2008, nominal wages didn't decrease, due to the stickiness of wages. Instead, companies laid-off employees to cut costs without reducing wages paid to the remaining employees. Later, as the economy began to come out of recession, both wages and employment will remain sticky.



Because it can be challenging to determine when a recession is actually ending, and in addition to the fact that hiring new employees may often represent a higher short-term cost than a slight raise to wages, companies tend to be hesitant to begin hiring new employees. In this respect, in the wake of a recession, employment may actually be “sticky-up.” On the other hand, according to the theory, wages themselves will often remain sticky-down and employees who made it through may see raises in pay.
What Is a Stipend?  

The term stipend refers to a form of compensation that is paid to certain individuals for services rendered, other work, or while they receive training. Stipends are often provided in lieu of or (in some cases) in addition to a regular salary. They are often used to offset certain expenses and generally come in a fixed amount. Stipends are commonly paid to trainees, interns, students, apprentices, and clergy members. Individuals should be aware of the tax implications of stipends, which are considered income but aren't immediately taxed.





Key Takeaways

A stipend is a form of compensation paid to certain individuals to help cover basic costs while they receive career training.Stipends may be offered in lieu of or in addition to a salary.Interns, apprentices, fellows, and clergy are common recipients of stipends.Most stipends are considered taxable income, which means that recipients may be responsible for their own withholding taxes if they aren't deducted by the issuer.The government has specific standards and rules for how stipends can be paid and for what reasons, since they may often fall below the minimum wage.


   How Stipends Work  

A stipend is often offered to individuals as a fixed sum and is commonly paid to the recipient as a lump sum payment. This type of compensation is sometimes called an allowance and is normally provided on a daily, weekly, or monthly basis. A stipend is usually offered as compensation for training instead of salaries for employment purposes. That being said, it allows people to pursue work that is normally unpaid by helping defray living expenses.



Interns, apprentices, fellows, and clergy are common recipients of stipends. Rather than being paid for their services, they're given stipends to provide financial support while they engage in the service or task at hand. A stipend often includes other benefits, such as higher education, room, and board.



Rules outlined by the Department of Labor (DOL) exist surrounding how stipends can be used by companies and organizations. Stipends cannot be used to hire students to replace existing staff, and the students must be the primary beneficiary of the employment or training—not the company. Also, a stipend may be lower than the minimum wage as long as it's used to pay trainees.



There is no hard-and-fast rule about the amount individuals are paid for stipends. The amount an individual receives often depends on the task they are assigned or the expense that is being offset. For instance, a company may pay a trainee $250 for a week's worth of training or a church may pay a clergy member $1,000 for living expenses.






Most stipends are considered taxable income so you'll have to pay the entire 15.3% withholding tax out of your own pocket. This includes both your portion and the employer's portion.


   Special Considerations  

If you receive a stipend, there are certain things you must consider. One of the main advantages of this type of compensation is that you get to keep what you earn. That's because people who receive stipends don't have taxes withdrawn to pay for Medicare and Social Security.



But remember, the majority of stipends are considered a form of taxable income. This means recipients need to set aside a portion of their earnings. For the 2022 tax year, the withholding rate for both programs is 15.3%—12.4% for Social Security and 2.9% for Medicare.



Recipients should be careful about how their payments are classified. Students and interns should be classified as such. If the company identifies you as an employee, your stipend may be taxed and you won't receive the full amount. And in this case, you're entitled to receive the minimum wage and any overtime pay, if it applies. On the other hand, employees should ensure they aren't considered trainees. This could lead to complications with their pay.






Not all stipends are considered taxable. For instance, fringe benefits like parking are only taxable after a certain amount. Be sure to consult with a tax consultant if you're unsure about the tax implications of your stipend.


   Types of Stipends  

As mentioned above, stipends are not hourly-based pay and are often used by employers as a lower-cost option to pay interns or to offset the cost individuals bear while executing certain services. As such, stipends can vary depending on the company or organization that pays them. Some companies pay stipends to help cover housing, food, or travel expenses. Here are just a few of the types of stipends that are offered.


  Academic Research Stipends  

Stipends are commonly offered to researchers at academic institutions or other related organizations to help them focus on their projects. Much like grants, these stipends may be furnished by third parties who wish to see a particular study or form of research advance further without fiscal distractions that may otherwise hamper the researcher. Foundations and comparable entities might also offer stipends on similar terms to support the work of researchers and the projects they are developing.


  Expense-Related Stipends  

Stipends might also be offered to cover very specific costs and expenses. For instance, students could receive a stipend that must be used toward the purchase or lease of computers during academic semesters. Alternatively, stipends may be issued to help defer the cost of transportation incurred by the recipient to and from the company for training purposes.


  Health Insurance Stipends  

Since employers don't have to offer health benefits to interns, some of them may offer their workers extra money by adding it to their paycheck to help them with health insurance costs. Individuals can then use this extra cash to put toward paying for their insurance premiums for coverage that can be purchased either through the health care exchange or directly from private insurers.


  Wellness Program Stipends  

Health and wellness are now an important part of the work-life balance that many employers promote. So it's only natural that a lot of companies also offer stipends for employees that can be used for a variety of fitness expenses, such as gym memberships, yoga classes, or even personal trainers, as part of a wellness program.


  Job Training Stipends  

Some companies offer stipends to employees who wish to take additional training and classes that may assist them with their jobs and career development. The employee may enroll and pay for classes or additional training, for which the employer provides a reimbursement.


   Real-World Examples of Stipends  

Many corporations and organizations offer stipends to workers and other individuals. The following are just a few examples that are found in the real world.



The National Endowment for the Humanities offers grants in the form of stipends to support individuals who conduct advanced research that may be of interest to the general public or scholars. The organization has given out $5.6 billion in more than 64,000 grants. The types of research projects eligible to receive such stipends may include books, translations, articles, digital publications, or site reports on archeologic digs. In order to receive a stipend like this, the recipient must ensure the project does more than collect data. Analysis and interpretation of the gathered information must be included.
Health and wellness stipends are growing in popularity. Microsoft (MSFT) offers full-time employees $1,200 per year for wellness-related expenses, such as gym memberships, fitness classes, financial advising, debt management, or massages, for example. The cost of the chosen services is reimbursed to the employee in addition to other healthcare benefits, such as medical, dental, or vision care.
Professional development is another popular employer-sponsored stipend. Apple (AAPL) reimburses employees for formal education expenses related to furthering their career at Apple, including tuition.




How Is a Stipend Different From a Salary?
A salary is compensation for work performed and is a set amount, typically per year. A stipend, on the other hand, is not considered compensation for work, but rather monetary support for a variety of possible factors, such as expenses incurred during traveling or during a training period, or to cover certain living expenses. Stipends are also typically lower in amount. As such, they are often lower than minimum wage and are not regulated by the state but provided at the discretion of the employer.




Is a Stipend Considered Income?
Stipends are not considered as wages so employers will not withhold income tax on any stipends made to employees. However, stipends are often considered income so you as an individual will have to calculate and pay taxes on any stipends received; this includes Social Security and Medicare. It is important to check with your employer on the tax implications regarding any stipends.




How Often Are Stipends Paid to an Employee?
How often stipends are paid out to an employee will vary on the institution and the circumstances. Stipends can be paid out weekly, monthly, or annually, Most often they will not be paid out annually as they are considered a form of support and the individual may need that monetary amount throughout the year. It is common that stipends are paid out as often as an employee's salary.
What Is Stochastic Modeling?  

Stochastic modeling is a form of financial model that is used to help make investment decisions. This type of modeling forecasts the probability of various outcomes under different conditions, using random variables.



Stochastic modeling presents data and predicts outcomes that account for certain levels of unpredictability or randomness. Companies in many industries can employ stochastic modeling to improve their business practices and increase profitability. In the financial services sector, planners, analysts, and portfolio managers use stochastic modeling to manage their assets and liabilities and optimize their portfolios.





Key Takeaways

Stochastic modeling forecasts the probability of various outcomes under different conditions, using random variables.Stochastic modeling presents data and predicts outcomes that account for certain levels of unpredictability or randomness.In the financial services sector, planners, analysts, and portfolio managers use stochastic modeling to manage their assets and liabilities and optimize their portfolios.The opposite of stochastic modeling is deterministic modeling, which gives you the same exact results every time for a particular set of inputs.The Monte Carlo simulation is one example of a stochastic model; it can simulate how a portfolio may perform based on the probability distributions of individual stock returns.


   Understanding Stochastic Modeling: Constant Versus Changeable  

To understand the concept of stochastic modeling, it helps to compare it to its opposite, deterministic modeling.


  Deterministic Modeling Produces Constant Results  

Deterministic modeling gives you the same exact results for a particular set of inputs, no matter how many times you re-calculate the model. Here, the mathematical properties are known. None of them is random, and there is only one set of specific values and only one answer or solution to a problem. With a deterministic model, the uncertain factors are external to the model.


  Stochastic Modeling Produces Changeable Results  

Stochastic modeling, on the other hand, is inherently random, and the uncertain factors are built into the model. The model produces many answers, estimations, and outcomes—like adding variables to a complex math problem—to see their different effects on the solution. The same process is then repeated many times under various scenarios.


   Who Uses Stochastic Modeling?  

Stochastic modeling is used in a variety of industries around the world. The insurance industry, for example, relies heavily on stochastic modeling to predict how company balance sheets will look at a given point in the future. Other sectors, industries, and disciplines that depend on stochastic modeling include stock investing, statistics, linguistics, biology, and quantum physics.






A stochastic model incorporates random variables to produce many different outcomes under diverse conditions.


   An Example of Stochastic Modeling in Financial Services  

Stochastic investment models attempt to forecast the variations of prices, returns on assets (ROA), and asset classes—such as bonds and stocks—over time. The Monte Carlo simulation is one example of a stochastic model; it can simulate how a portfolio may perform based on the probability distributions of individual stock returns. Stochastic investment models can be either single-asset or multi-asset models, and may be used for financial planning, to optimize asset-liability-management (ALM) or asset allocation; they are also used for actuarial work.


   A Pivotal Tool in Financial Decision-Making  

The significance of stochastic modeling in finance is extensive and far-reaching. When choosing investment vehicles, it is critical to be able to view a variety of outcomes under multiple factors and conditions. In some industries, a company's success or demise may even hinge on it.



In the ever-changing world of investing, new variables can come into play at any time, which could affect a stock picker's decisions enormously. Hence, finance professionals often run stochastic models hundreds or even thousands of times, which proffers numerous potential solutions to help target decision-making.


   Stochastic Model FAQs  
  What Is the Difference Between Stochastic and Deterministic Models?  

Unlike deterministic models that produce the same exact results for a particular set of inputs, stochastic models are the opposite; the model presents data and predicts outcomes that account for certain levels of unpredictability or randomness.


  What Does a Lot of Variation Mean in a Stochastic Model?  

Stochastic models are all about calculating and predicting an outcome based on volatility and variability; the more variation in a stochastic model is reflected in the number of input variables.


  What Is an Example of a Stochastic Event?  

The Monte Carlo simulation is one example of a stochastic model; it can simulate how a portfolio may perform based on the probability distributions of individual stock returns.


  What Is the Difference Between Stochastic and Probabilistic?  

They are generally considered synonyms of each other. Stochastic can be thought of as a random event, whereas probabilistic is derived from probability.
What Is a Stochastic Oscillator?  

A stochastic oscillator is a momentum indicator comparing a particular closing price of a security to a range of its prices over a certain period of time. The sensitivity of the oscillator to market movements is reducible by adjusting that time period or by taking a moving average of the result. It is used to generate overbought and oversold trading signals, utilizing a 0–100 bounded range of values.





Key Takeaways

A stochastic oscillator is a popular technical indicator for generating overbought and oversold signals.It is a popular momentum indicator, first developed in the 1950s.Stochastic oscillators tend to vary around some mean price level since they rely on an asset's price history.Stochastic oscillators measure the momentum of an asset's price to determine trends and predict reversals.Stochastic oscillators measure recent prices on a scale of 0 to 100, with measurements above 80 indicating that an asset is overbought and measurements below 20 indicating that it is oversold.












Investopedia / Jessica Olah


   Understanding the Stochastic Oscillator  

The stochastic oscillator is range-bound, meaning it is always between 0 and 100. This makes it a useful indicator of overbought and oversold conditions.



Traditionally, readings over 80 are considered in the overbought range, and readings under 20 are considered oversold. However, these are not always indicative of impending reversal; very strong trends can maintain overbought or oversold conditions for an extended period. Instead, traders should look to changes in the stochastic oscillator for clues about future trend shifts.



Stochastic oscillator charting generally consists of two lines: one reflecting the actual value of the oscillator for each session, and one reflecting its three-day simple moving average. Because price is thought to follow momentum, the intersection of these two lines is considered to be a signal that a reversal may be in the works, as it indicates a large shift in momentum from day to day.



Divergence between the stochastic oscillator and trending price action is also seen as an important reversal signal. For example, when a bearish trend reaches a new lower low, but the oscillator prints a higher low, it may be an indicator that bears are exhausting their momentum and a bullish reversal is brewing.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021


   Formula for the Stochastic Oscillator  
















%K


=



(




C


−


L14




H14


−


L14




)



×


100
















where:
















C = The most recent closing price
















L14 = The lowest price traded of the 14 previous
















trading sessions
















H14 = The highest price traded during the same
















14-day period
















%K = The current value of the stochastic indicator







\begin{aligned} &\text{\%K}=\left(\frac{\text{C} - \text{L14}}{\text{H14} - \text{L14}}\right)\times100\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{C = The most recent closing price}\\ &\text{L14 = The lowest price traded of the 14 previous}\\ &\text{trading sessions}\\ &\text{H14 = The highest price traded during the same}\\ &\text{14-day period}\\ &\text{\%K = The current value of the stochastic indicator}\\ \end{aligned}


​%K=(H14−L14C−L14​)×100where:C = The most recent closing priceL14 = The lowest price traded of the 14 previoustrading sessionsH14 = The highest price traded during the same14-day period%K = The current value of the stochastic indicator​



Notably, %K is referred to sometimes as the fast stochastic indicator. The "slow" stochastic indicator is taken as %D = 3-period moving average of %K.



The general theory serving as the foundation for this indicator is that in a market trending upward, prices will close near the high, and in a market trending downward, prices close near the low. Transaction signals are created when the %K crosses through a three-period moving average, which is called the %D.



The difference between the slow and fast Stochastic Oscillator is the Slow %K incorporates a %K slowing period of 3 that controls the internal smoothing of %K. Setting the smoothing period to 1 is equivalent to plotting the Fast Stochastic Oscillator.






   History of the Stochastic Oscillator  

The stochastic oscillator was developed in the late 1950s by George Lane. As designed by Lane, the stochastic oscillator presents the location of the closing price of a stock in relation to the high and low prices of the stock over a period of time, typically a 14-day period.



Lane, over the course of numerous interviews, has said that the stochastic oscillator does not follow price, volume, or anything similar. He indicates that the oscillator follows the speed or momentum of price.



Lane also reveals that, as a rule, the momentum or speed of a stock's price movements changes before the price changes direction. In this way, the stochastic oscillator can foreshadow reversals when the indicator reveals bullish or bearish divergences. This signal is the first, and arguably the most important, trading signal Lane identified.


   Example of the Stochastic Oscillator  

The stochastic oscillator is included in most charting tools and can be easily employed in practice. The standard time period used is 14 days, though this can be adjusted to meet specific analytical needs. The stochastic oscillator is calculated by subtracting the low for the period from the current closing price, dividing by the total range for the period, and multiplying by 100.



As a hypothetical example, if the 14-day high is $150, the low is $125 and the current close is $145, then the reading for the current session would be: (145-125) / (150 - 125) * 100, or 80.



By comparing the current price to the range over time, the stochastic oscillator reflects the consistency with which the price closes near its recent high or low. A reading of 80 would indicate that the asset is on the verge of being overbought.


   Relative Strength Index (RSI) vs. Stochastic Oscillator  

The relative strength index (RSI) and stochastic oscillator are both price momentum oscillators that are widely used in technical analysis. While often used in tandem, they each have different underlying theories and methods. The stochastic oscillator is predicated on the assumption that closing prices should move in the same direction as the current trend.



Meanwhile, the RSI tracks overbought and oversold levels by measuring the velocity of price movements. In other words, the RSI was designed to measure the speed of price movements, while the stochastic oscillator formula works best in consistent trading ranges.



In general, the RSI is more useful during trending markets, and stochastics more so in sideways or range-bound markets.


   Limitations of the Stochastic Oscillator  

The primary limitation of the stochastic oscillator is that it has been known to produce false signals. This is when a trading signal is generated by the indicator, yet the price does not actually follow through, which can end up as a losing trade. During volatile market conditions, this can happen quite regularly. One way to help with this is to take the price trend as a filter, where signals are only taken if they are in the same direction as the trend.




How Do You Read the Stochastic Oscillator?
The stochastic oscillator represents recent prices on a scale of 0 to 100, with 0 representing the lower limits of the recent time period and 100 representing the upper limit. A stochastic indicator reading above 80 indicates that the asset is trading near the top of its range, and a reading below 20 shows that it is near the bottom of its range.




What Does %K Represent on the Stochastic Oscillator?
On a stochastic oscillator chart, %K represents the current price of the security, represented as a percentage of the difference between its highest and lowest values over a certain time period. In other words, K represents the current price in relation to the asset's recent price range.




What Does %D Represent on the Stochastic Oscillator?
On a stochastic oscillator chart, %D represents the 3-period average of %K. This line is used to show the longer-term trend for current prices, and is used to show the current price trend is continuing for a sustained period of time.
What Is the Stochastic RSI?  

The Stochastic RSI (StochRSI) is an indicator used in technical analysis that ranges between zero and one (or zero and 100 on some charting platforms) and is created by applying the Stochastic oscillator formula to a set of relative strength index (RSI) values rather than to standard price data. Using RSI values within the Stochastic formula gives traders an idea of whether the current RSI value is overbought or oversold.



The StochRSI oscillator was developed to take advantage of both momentum indicators in order to create a more sensitive indicator that is attuned to a specific security's historical performance rather than a generalized analysis of price change.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021





Key Takeaways


A StochRSI reading above 0.8 is considered overbought, while a reading below 0.2 is considered oversold. On the zero to 100 scale, above 80 is overbought, and below 20 is oversold.
Overbought doesn't necessarily mean the price will reverse lower, just like oversold doesn't mean the price will reverse higher. Rather the overbought and oversold conditions simply alert traders that the RSI is near the extremes of its recent readings.
A reading of zero means the RSI is at its lowest level in 14 periods (or whatever lookback period is chosen). A reading of 1 (or 100) means the RSI is at the highest level in the last 14 periods.
Other StochRSI values show where the RSI is relative to a high or low.







   The Formulas For the Stochastic RSI (StochRSI) are:  

﻿















StochRSI


=




R


S


I


−


min



[



R


S


I



]





max



[



R


S


I



]



−


min



[



R


S


I



]



















where:
















R


S


I


=


Current RSI reading
















min



[



R


S


I



]



=


Lowest RSI reading over the last 14 periods

















(or your chosen lookback interval)
















max



[



R


S


I



]



=


Highest RSI reading over the last 14 periods








\begin{aligned} &\text{StochRSI}=\frac{RSI-\min\left[{RSI} \right ]}{\max\left[{RSI} \right ] - \min\left[{RSI} \right ]}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &RSI = \text{Current RSI reading}\\ &\min\left[{RSI} \right ] = \text{Lowest RSI reading over the last 14 periods}\\ &\;\text{(or your chosen lookback interval)}\\ &\max\left[{RSI} \right ] = \text{Highest RSI reading over the last 14 periods}\\ &\;\text{(or your chosen lookback interval)} \end{aligned}


​StochRSI=max[RSI]−min[RSI]RSI−min[RSI]​where:RSI=Current RSI readingmin[RSI]=Lowest RSI reading over the last 14 periods(or your chosen lookback interval)max[RSI]=Highest RSI reading over the last 14 periods​﻿



Where:



RSI = Current RSI reading;



Lowest RSI = Lowest RSI reading over last 14 periods (or chosen lookback period); and



Highest RSI = Highest RSI reading over last 14 period (or lookback period).


   How to Calculate the Stochastic RSI  

The StochRSI is based on RSI readings. The RSI has an input value, typically 14, which tells the indicator how many periods of data it is using in its calculation. These RSI levels are then used in the StochRSI formula.



Record RSI levels for 14 periods.On the 14th period, note the current RSI reading, the highest RSI reading, and lowest RSI reading. It is now possible to fill in all the formula variables for StochRSI.On the 15th period, note the current RSI reading, highest RSI reading, and lowest reading, but only for the last 14 period (not the last 15). Compute the new StochRSI.As each period ends compute the new StochRSI value, only using the last 14 RSI values.


   What Does the Stochastic RSI Tell You?  

The StochRSI was developed by Tushar S. Chande and Stanley Kroll and detailed in their book "The New Technical Trader," first published in 1994. While technical indicators already existed to show overbought and oversold levels, the two developed StochRSI to improve sensitivity and generate a greater number of signals than traditional indicators could do.



The StochRSI deems something to be oversold when the value drops below 0.20, meaning the RSI value is trading at the lower end of its predefined range, and that the short-term direction of the underlying security may be nearing a low a possible move higher. Conversely, a reading above 0.80 suggests the RSI may be reaching extreme highs and could be used to signal a pullback in the underlying security.



Along with identifying overbought/oversold conditions, the StochRSI can be used to identify short-term trends by looking at it in the context of an oscillator with a centerline at 0.50. When the StochRSI is above 0.50, the security may be seen as trending higher and vice versa when it's below 0.50.



The StochRSI should also be used in conjunction with other technical indicators or chart patterns to maximize effectiveness, especially given the high number of signals that it generates.



In addition, non-momentum oscillators like the accumulation distribution line may be particularly helpful because they don't overlap in terms of functionality and provide insights from a different perspective.


   The Difference Between the Stochastic RSI and the Relative Strength Index (RSI)  

They seem similar, but the StochRSI relies on a different formula from what generates RSI values. RSI is a derivative of price. Meanwhile, StochRSI is derivative of RSI itself, or a second derivative of price. One of the key differences is how quickly the indicators move. StochRSI moves very quickly from overbought to oversold, or vice versa, while the RSI is a much slower moving indicator. One isn't better than the other, StochRSI just moves more (and more quickly) than the RSI.


   Limitations of Using the Stochastic RSI  

One downside to using the StochRSI is that it tends to be quite volatile, rapidly moving from high to low. Smoothing the StochRSI may help in this regard. Some traders will take a moving average of the StochRSI to reduce the volatility and make the indicator more useful. For example, a 10-day simple moving average of the StochRSI can produce an indicator that's much smoother and more stable. Most charting platforms allow for applying one type of indicator to another without any personal calculations required.



Also, the StochRSI is the second derivative of price. In other words, its output is two steps away from the actual price of the asset being analyzed, which means at times it may be out of sync with an asset's market price in real time.
What Are Stocks?  

A stock, also known as equity, is a security that represents the ownership of a fraction of the issuing corporation. Units of stock are called "shares" which entitles the owner to a proportion of the corporation's assets and profits equal to how much stock they own. 



Stocks are bought and sold predominantly on stock exchanges and are the foundation of many individual investors' portfolios. Stock trades have to conform to government regulations meant to protect investors from fraudulent practices.





Key Takeaways

A stock is a form of security that indicates the holder has proportionate ownership in the issuing corporation and is sold predominantly on stock exchanges.Corporations issue stock to raise funds to operate their businesses.There are two main types of stock: common and preferred.Historically, stocks have outperformed most other investments over the long run.


   Understanding Stocks  

Corporations issue stock to raise funds to operate their businesses and the holder of stock, a shareholder, may have a claim to part of the company's assets and earnings.



A shareholder is considered an owner of the issuing company, determined by the number of shares an investor owns relative to the number of outstanding shares. If a company has 1,000 shares of stock outstanding and one person owns 100 shares, that person would own and have a claim to 10% of the company's assets and earnings.



Stockholders do not own a corporation but corporations are a special type of organization because the law treats them as legal persons. Corporations file taxes. can borrow, can own property, and can be sued. The idea that a corporation is a “person” means that the corporation owns its assets. A corporate office full of chairs and tables belongs to the corporation, and not to the shareholders.



Corporate property is legally separated from the property of shareholders, which limits the liability of both the corporation and the shareholder. If the corporation goes bankrupt, a judge may order all of its assets sold but a shareholder's assets are not at risk. The court cannot force you to sell your shares, although the value of your shares may have fallen. Likewise, if a major shareholder goes bankrupt, they cannot sell the company’s assets to pay their creditors.





Shareholder

A person, company, or institution that owns at least one share of a company's stock.


   What Is Shareholder Ownership?  

What shareholders own are shares issued by the corporation, and the corporation owns the assets held by a firm. If you own 33% of the shares of a company, it is incorrect to assert that you own one-third of that company. However, you do own one-third of the company’s shares. This is known as the “separation of ownership and control.”



Owning stock gives you the right to vote in shareholder meetings, receive dividends if and when they are distributed, and the right to sell your shares to somebody else.



If you own a majority of shares, your voting power increases so that you can indirectly control the direction of a company by appointing its board of directors. This becomes most apparent when one company buys another. The acquiring company buys all the outstanding shares.



The board of directors is responsible for increasing the value of the corporation and often does so by hiring professional managers, or officers, such as the chief executive officer, or CEO. Ordinary shareholders do not manage the company.



The importance of being a shareholder is that you are entitled to a portion of the company's profits, which is the foundation of a stock’s value. The more shares you own, the larger the portion of the profits you get. Many stocks, however, do not pay out dividends and instead reinvest profits back into growing the company. These retained earnings, however, are still reflected in the value of a stock.


   How to Compare Common and Preferred Stock  

There are two main types of stock: common and preferred. Common stock usually entitles the owner to vote at shareholders' meetings and to receive any dividends paid out by the corporation.



Preferred stockholders generally do not have voting rights, though they have a higher claim on assets and earnings than common stockholders. For example, owners of preferred stock receive dividends before common shareholders and have priority if a company goes bankrupt and is liquidated.






The first common stock ever issued was by the Dutch East India Company in 1602.



Companies can issue new shares whenever there is a need to raise additional cash. This process dilutes the ownership and rights of existing shareholders (provided they do not buy any of the new offerings). Corporations can also engage in stock buybacks, which benefit existing shareholders because they cause their shares to appreciate in value.


   What Is the Difference Between Stocks and Bonds?  

Stocks are issued by companies to raise capital to grow the business or undertake new projects. There are important distinctions between whether somebody buys shares directly from the company when it issues them in the primary market or from another shareholder in the secondary market. When the corporation issues shares, it does so in return for money.



Bonds vary from stocks in several ways. Bondholders are creditors to the corporation and are entitled to interest as well as repayment of the principal invested. Creditors are given legal priority over other stakeholders in the event of a bankruptcy and will be made whole first if a company is forced to sell assets.



Conversely, shareholders often receive nothing in the event of bankruptcy, implying that stocks are inherently riskier investments than bonds.




How Do You Buy Stock?
Most often, stocks are bought and sold on stock exchanges, such as the Nasdaq or the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). After a company goes public through an initial public offering (IPO), its stock becomes available for investors to buy and sell on an exchange. Typically, investors will use a brokerage account to purchase stock on the exchange, which will list the purchasing price (the bid) or the selling price (the offer). The price of the stock is influenced by supply and demand factors in the market, among other variables.




How Can You Earn Income From Owning Stock?
There are two ways to earn money by owning shares of stock is through dividends and capital appreciation. Dividends are cash distributions of company profits. If a company has 1,000 shares outstanding and declares a $5,000 dividend, then stockholders will get $5 for each share they own. Capital appreciation is the increase in the share price itself. If you sell a share to someone for $10, and the stock is later worth $11, the shareholder has made $1.




Is It Risky to Own Stock?
All investments have a degree of risk. Stocks, bonds, mutual funds, and exchange-traded funds can lose value if market conditions decline. When you invest, you make choices about what to do with your financial assets. Your investment value might rise or fall because of market conditions or corporate decisions, such as whether to expand into a new area of business or merge with another company.Historically, stocks have outperformed most other investments over the long run.


   The Bottom Line  

A stock represents fractional ownership of equity in an organization. It is different from a bond, which operates like a loan made by creditors to the company in return for periodic payments. A company issues stock to raise capital from investors for new projects or to expand its business operations. The type of stock, common or preferred, held by a shareholder determines the rights and benefits of ownership.
What Is Stock Analysis?  

Stock analysis is the evaluation of a particular trading instrument, an investment sector, or the market as a whole. Stock analysts attempt to determine the future activity of an instrument, sector, or market.





Key Takeaways

Stock analysis is the practice of using information and analyzing data to make investment decisions.One popular form of stock analysis is fundamental analysis, the practice of using financial activity to forecast stock prices.Another popular form of stock analysis is technical analysis, the reliance of historical stock price activity to predict future price activity.Other less common forms of stock analysis include sentiment analysis and quantitative analysis.Investors may have unpredictable or limited information which makes stock analysis difficult.


   Understanding Stock Analysis  

Stock analysis is a method for investors and traders to make buying and selling decisions. By studying and evaluating past and current data, investors and traders attempt to gain an edge in the markets by making informed decisions.



The notion of stock analysis relies on the assumption that available market information can be used to determine the intrinsic value of a stock. In the primary methods discussed below, investors use financial statements, stock price movement, market indicators, or industry trends to make investment decisions.



Much of this strategy relies on leveraging historical information. For instance, investors may analyze a company's stock based on it's financial performance. An analyst that is trying to determine the fair price of that stock may strive to understand how similar companies of similar performance performed in the past.



There are two basic types of stock analysis: fundamental analysis and technical analysis. Each method is discussed more in-depth below.


   Fundamental Analysis  

Fundamental analysis concentrates on data from sources, including financial records, economic reports, company assets, and market share. To conduct fundamental analysis on a public company or sector, investors and analysts typically analyze the metrics on a company’s financial statements – balance sheet, income statement, cash flow statement, and footnotes.



These statements are released to the public in the form of a 10-Q or 10-K report through the database system, EDGAR, which is administered by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Also, the earnings report released by a company during its quarterly earnings press release is analyzed by investors who look to ascertain how much in revenue, expenses, and profits a company made.






Companies often release their financial statement information on set cadences with predictable release periods.


  Fundamental Analysis and Ratios  

When running stock analysis on a company’s financial statements, an analyst will usually be checking for the measure of a company’s profitability, liquidity, solvency, efficiency, growth trajectory, and leverage. Different ratios can be used to determine how healthy a company is.



For example, the current ratio and quick ratio are used to estimate whether a company will be able to pay its short-term liabilities with its available current assets. The formula for current ratio is calculated by dividing current assets by current liabilities, figures that can be gotten from the balance sheet. Although, there is no such thing as an ideal current ratio, a ratio less than 1 could indicate to the stock analyst that the company is in poor financial health and may not be able to cover its short-term debt obligations when they come due.



Looking at the balance sheet still, a stock analyst may want to know the current debt levels taken on by a company. In this case, a stock analyst may use the debt ratio, which is calculated by dividing total liabilities by total assets. A debt ratio above 1 typically means that a company has more debt than assets. In this case, if the company has a high degree of leverage, a stock analyst may conclude that a rise in interest rates may increase the company’s probability of going into default.


  Fundamental Analysis and Comparative Information  

Stock analysis involves comparing a company’s current financial statement to its financial statements in previous years to give an investor a sense of whether the company is growing, stable, or deteriorating. The financial statement of a company can also be compared to that of one or more other companies within the same industry.



A stock analyst may be looking to compare the operating profit margin of two competing companies, by looking at their income statements. The operating profit margin is a metric that shows how much revenue is left after operating expenses have been paid and what portion of revenue is left to cover non-operating costs and is calculated as operating income divided by revenue.



A company with an operating margin of 0.30 will be looked on more favorably than one with a margin of 0.03. A 0.30 operating margin means that for every dollar of revenue, a company has 30 cents left after operating costs have been covered. In other words, the company uses 70 cents out of every dollar in net sales to pay for its variable or operating costs.


   Technical Analysis  

The second method of stock analysis is technical analysis. Technical analysis focuses on the study of past and present price action to predict the probability of future price movements. Technical analysts analyze the financial market as a whole and are primarily concerned with price and volume, as well as the demand and supply factors that move the market.



Charts are a key tool for technical analysts as they show a graphical illustration of a stock’s trend within a stated time period. For example, using a chart, a technical analyst may mark certain areas as a support or resistance level. The support levels are marked by previous lows below the current trading price, and the resistance markers are placed at previous highs above the current market price of the stock. A break below the support level would indicate a bearish trend to the stock analyst, while a break above the resistance level would take on a bullish outlook.


  Technical Analysis and Comparability  

Technical stock analysis is effective only when supply and demand forces influence the price trend analyzed. When outside factors are involved in a price movement, analyzing stocks using technical analysis may not be successful. Like other forms of analysis, analyzing stock price trends using technical analysis is more complicated as more variables are considered.



Examples of factors, other than supply and demand, that can affect a stock price include stock splits, mergers, dividend announcements, a class action lawsuit, death of a company’s CEO, a terrorist attack, accounting scandals, change of management, monetary policy changes, etc. These unpredictable events may occur that were essentially impossible to forecast or plan for.






Technical analysis is only possible if a company's historical stock price can be used to predict future price movement.


   Other Forms of Stock Analysis  

Aside from fundamental analysis and technical analysis, analysts can leverage other less formal ways to analyze the price of a stock. With the interconnectivity and complexity of social media, analysts can perform sentiment analysis by engaging with social media and news to gauge public perception of the company.



Quantitative analysis is similar to technical analysis in that it relies on complex financial calculations to determine future price projections. Quantitative analysis relies on mathematical and statistical modeling to review data; the goal of these models is to identify general trends based on what has happened in the past (not necessarily tied specifically to the stock price).



Analysts may also perform either a top-down analysis or bottom-up analysis. Top-down analysis requires an analysis of the overall economy, then narrows down to the specific performance of a company. On the other hand, bottom-up requires analyzing individual companies, then reviewing how the broader economy is performing. Both types of analysis are used to more generally understand factors that impact price such as broad market conditions.


   Limitations of Stock Analysis  

Many investors rely on stock analysis to deploy their best investment strategies. However, stock analysis may result in misplaced confidence or misguided strategies.



Stock analysis is often performed with limited information. This is due to a few reasons. First, public companies may not fully disclose all situations of their company to the general public. Second, stock analysis strives to project the future (in which the information is simply not available).



Because of this reliance on future events to occur, there is broad uncertainty around all stock analysis techniques. The stock market may rapidly change in either direction based on prevailing market conditions. For example, should political climates change rapidly and redefine political risk, there may be an unpredictable impact to investments no previously foreseen.



As analysis dig into stock data, there is always an inherent risk of bias. If the data being analyzed is not anonymous, analysts may find themselves favoring certain outcomes based on what they know about the investment options. In addition, analysts and investors may be lured into confirmation bias that steers decisions to match a desired outcome.



Last, stock analysis is often complex. It isn't easy to pull together, and it requires a substantial amount of time. In addition, as variables change everyday, stock analysis requires continual thoughtfulness and analysis to evaluate morphing conditions.




Which Stock Analysis Technique Is Best?
Investors may be best suited to use fundamental, technical, and quantitative analysis as one technique may not always be superior compared to other techniques. Based on the information available and objectives of the investors, it may be better to analyze the financial positioning, research the company's industry, or devise complex financial models.




How Do You Know If a Stock's Price Will Go Up?
The best answer to this question is that nobody knows whether a stock's price will go up or down. However, analysts and investors can leverage information to make the best, most strategic decision to follow general information related to the stock. In general, if the fair value of a stock is less than the current price of the stock, the price will go down. On the other hand, companies with higher fair values as determined by the market will go up.




How Can Beginners Start Analyzing Stocks?
Analyzing your first stock does not need to be difficult. First, gather as much public information related to the company as available. This includes recent news articles associated with the company as well as the most recent set of financial statements. Then, filter down this information to the most relevant information, Consider leveraging industry averages or data from competitors to set benchmarks. Then, decide whether the company is outperforming or underperforming compared to current prices and stock activity.




How Do I Research Stocks Before Buying Them?
As an investor researching stocks, you should aim to collect a broad range of information about the company. This includes recent government filings, news articles, press releases, statements or activity on social media, and the company's financial statements. You can also leverage information from other analysts, as professionals may publicly give their opinion about the position of the company. This insight can be used to form your own opinion on future price movement.


   The Bottom Line  

Both fundamental and technical analysis can be done independently or together. Some analysts use both methods of analysis, while others stick to one. Either way, using stock analysis to vet stocks, sectors, and the market is an important method of creating the best investment strategy for one’s portfolio.
What Are Stock Appreciation Rights?  

Stock appreciation rights (SARs) are a type of employee compensation linked to the company's stock price during a predetermined period. SARs are profitable for employees when the company's stock price rises, which makes them similar to employee stock options (ESOs). However, employees do not have to pay the exercise price with SARs. Instead, they receive the sum of the increase in stock or cash.



The primary benefit of stock appreciation rights is that employees can receive proceeds from stock price increases without having to buy stock.





Key Takeaways

Stock appreciation rights (SARs) are a type of employee compensation linked to the company's stock price during a preset period.Unlike stock options, SARs are often paid in cash and do not require the employee to own any asset or contract.SARs are beneficial to employers since they do not have to dilute share price by issuing additional shares.


   Understanding Stock Appreciation Rights  

Stock appreciation rights offer the right to the cash equivalent of a stock's price gains over a predetermined time interval. Employers almost always pay this type of bonus in cash. However, the company may pay the employee bonus in shares. In most cases, employees can exercise SARs after they vest. When SARs vest, it simply means that they become available to exercise. Employers generally issue SARs along with stock options. These stock appreciation rights are called tandem SARs. They assist in funding the purchase of options and help pay off taxes due at the time the SARs are exercised.



Like several other forms of stock compensation, SARs are transferable and are often subject to clawback provisions. Clawback provisions specify conditions under which the company may take back some or all of the income received by employees under the plan. For example, they might allow the firm to withdraw SARs if an employee goes to work for a competitor before a specified date. SARs are also frequently awarded according to a vesting schedule that ties them to performance goals set by the company.



SARs are taxed the same way as non-qualified stock options (NSOs). There are no tax consequences of any kind on either the grant date or when they are vested. However, participants must recognize ordinary income on the spread at the time of exercise. Most employers will also withhold supplemental federal income tax. Furthermore, they will hold back funds to pay state and local taxes where applicable.



Many employers will also withhold taxes on SARs in the form of shares. For example, an employer may only give a certain number of shares and withhold the remainder to cover the tax. As with NSOs, the amount of income recognized upon exercise becomes the cost basis for taxes when holders sell the shares.


   Special Considerations  

SARs are similar in some ways to phantom stock. The major difference is that phantom stocks are typically reflective of stock splits and dividends. Phantom stock is a promise that an employee will receive either the value of the company's shares or the amount that the stock price increases during a specified period. The phantom stock bonus an employee receives is taxed as ordinary income at the time it is received. Phantom stock is not tax-qualified, so it does not have to follow the rules that employee stock ownership plans (ESOPs) and 401(k)s must follow.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of SARs  

The greatest advantage of SARs is flexibility. Companies can structure SARs in a variety of ways that work best for different individuals. However, this flexibility requires making numerous choices. Companies offering SARs must decide which employees receive them, the value of these bonuses, the liquidity of the SARs, and which vesting rules to adopt.



Employers like SARs because the accounting rules for them are more favorable than in the past. They receive fixed instead of variable accounting treatment, much like conventional stock option plans. However, SARs require the issuance of fewer shares and dilute the share price less than traditional stock plans. Like all other forms of equity compensation, SARs can also serve to motivate and retain employees.






Despite their many benefits, SARs are a high-risk form of employee compensation. If the company's stock does not appreciate, SARs often expire worthless.


   Example of Stock Appreciation Rights  

Consider an employee who earns 200 SARs as a performance bonus. Furthermore, suppose that the SARs mature after a period of two years. The stock of the company then proceeds to increase by $35 a share over those two years. The result is that the employee receives $7,000 (200 SARs x $35 = $7,000) in additional compensation. These SARs could also have a clawback provision where employees lose them if they leave the company before the two-year period ends.
What Is Stock Compensation?  

Stock compensation is a way corporations use stock options to reward employees. Employees with stock options need to know whether their stock is vested and will retain its full value even if they are no longer employed with that company. Because tax consequences depend on the fair market value (FMV) of the stock, if the stock is subject to tax withholding, the tax must be paid in cash, even if the employee was paid by equity compensation.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

Stock compensation is a way corporations use stock or stock options to reward employees in lieu of cash.Stock compensation is often subject to a vesting period before it can be collected and sold by an employee.Vesting periods are often three to four years, typically beginning after the first anniversary of the date an employee became eligible for stock compensation.Two types of stock compensation are non-qualified stock options (NSOs) and incentive stock options (ISOs).Some companies award performance shares to managers and executives if certain performance metrics are met, such as earnings per share (EPS) or return on equity (ROE).


   How Stock Compensation Works  

Stock compensation is often used by startup companies since they typically do not have the cash on hand to pay employees competitive rates. Executives and staff may share in the company’s growth and profits that way. However, many laws and compliance issues must be adhered to, such as fiduciary duty, tax treatment and deductibility, registration issues and expense charges.﻿﻿



When vesting, companies let employees purchase a predetermined number of shares at a set price. Companies may vest on a specific date or on a monthly, quarterly, or annual schedule. The timing may be set according to company-wide or individual performance targets being met, or both time and performance criteria. Vesting periods are often three to four years, typically beginning after the first anniversary of the date an employee became eligible for stock compensation. After being vested, the employee may exercise their stock-purchasing option any time before the expiration date.


   Example of Stock Compensation  

For example, assume that an employee is given the right to purchase 2,000 shares of stock at $20 per share. The options vest 30% per year over three years and have a term of five years. The employee pays $20 per share when buying the stock, regardless of the stock price, over the five-year period.


   Types of Stock Compensation  

There are different types of stock compensation, such as non-qualified stock options (NSOs) and incentive stock options (ISOs). ISOs are only available to employees and not non-employee directors or consultants. These options provide special tax advantages. With non-qualified stock options, employees are required to pay income tax based on the grant price minus the price of the exercised option.



Stock appreciation rights (SARs) let the value of a predetermined number of shares be paid in cash or shares. Phantom stock pays a cash bonus at a later date equaling the value of a set number of shares. Employee stock purchase plans (ESPPs) let employees buy company shares at a discount.


  Restricted Stock  

Restricted stock and restricted stock units (RSUs) let employees receive shares through purchase or gift after working a set number of years and meeting performance goals. Restricted stock requires the completion of a vesting period. This may be done all at once after a certain period of time. Alternatively, vesting may be done equally over a set period of years or any other combination management finds suitable.



RSUs are similar, but they represent the company's promise to pay shares based on a vesting schedule. This offers some advantages to the company, but employees do not gain any rights of stock ownership—such as voting rights—until the shares are earned and issued.


  Performance Shares  

Companies award performance shares to executives and managers only if certain specified measures are met. These could include metrics, such as an earnings per share (EPS) target, return on equity (ROE), or the total return of the company's stock in relation to an index. Typically, performance periods are over a multi-year time horizon.


   Exercising Stock Options  

Stock options may be exercised by paying cash, exchanging shares already owned, working with a stockbroker on a same-day sale, or executing a sell-to-cover transaction. However, a company typically allows only one or two of those methods. For example, private companies typically restrict the sale of acquired shares until the company goes public or is sold. In addition, private companies do not offer sell-to-cover or same-day sales.
What Is a Stock Dividend?  

A stock dividend is a payment to shareholders that consists of additional shares rather than cash.



The distributions are paid in fractions per existing share. For example, if a company issues a stock dividend of 5%, it will pay 0.05 shares for every share owned by a shareholder. The owner of 100 shares would get five additional shares.





Key Takeaways

A stock dividend is a dividend paid to shareholders in the form of additional shares in the company.Stock dividends are not taxed until the shares are sold by their owner.Like stock splits, stock dividends dilute the share price because additional shares have been issued.Stock dividends do not affect the value of the company.A company may prefer to pay dividends in stock rather than cash in order to preserve its cash reserves.












Investopedia / Jessica Olah


   How a Stock Dividend Works  

Also known as a scrip dividend, a stock dividend may be paid out when a company wants to reward its investors but either doesn't have the spare cash or prefers to preserve it for other uses. The stock dividend has the advantage of rewarding shareholders without reducing the company's cash balance—but it does increase its liabilities.



Stock dividends have a tax advantage for the investor as well. Like any stock shares, stock dividends are not taxed until the investor sells the shares.



A stock dividend may require that the newly received shares not be sold for a certain period. This holding period on a stock dividend typically begins the day after it is received.






   Stock Dividend Dilution  

Stock dividends act to dilute a company's existing shares. This means that adding shares with no corresponding increase in capital works to reduce the values of all of the firm's shares.



For instance, imagine the board of a public company approves a 5% stock dividend. That gives existing investors one additional share of company stock for every 20 shares they currently own. So, say that the company's shares had a market value of $2.50 and one investor owned 20 shares before the stock dividend.



The investor would have $45 worth of shares—but when they receive one more share from the company, they would now own 21 shares with a value of $45. Each share would now be worth $2.14. In this way, a stock dividend is similar to a stock split.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Stock Dividends  

From an investor's viewpoint, there's little immediate reward in receiving stock dividends. Then again, there's no tax due until the additional shares are sold.



Issuing share dividends lowers the price of the stock, at least in the short term. A lower-priced stock tends to attract more buyers, so current shareholders are likely to get their reward down the road. Or, they can sell the additional shares immediately, pocket the cash, and still retain the same number of shares they had before.



A public company is not required to issue dividends at all. However, it's not a good look for a company to abruptly stop paying dividends or pay a lower dividend than it has in the past.



For the company, a stock dividend is a pain-free way to issue dividends without depleting its cash reserves.




Pros and Cons for Companies and Investors

Pros

Company's cash balance remains the same
Decrease in share price may attract new investors
Investors do not owe tax on these dividends until the stock is sold



Cons

Bonus shares dilute the share price
Stock dividends may signal the company's financial instability
Share dividends may be less attractive to some investors than cash dividends





   Journal Entry: Small and Large Stock Dividends  

When a stock dividend is issued, the total value of equity remains the same from both the investor's perspective and the company's perspective.



All stock dividends require an accounting journal entry for the company issuing the dividend. This entry transfers the value of the issued stock from the retained earnings account to the paid-in capital account.


  Small Stock Dividend Accounting  

A stock dividend is considered small if the shares issued are less than 25% of the total value of shares outstanding before the dividend. A journal entry for a small stock dividend transfers the market value of the issued shares from retained earnings to paid-in capital.



Company X declares a 10% stock dividend on its 500,000 shares of common stock. Its common stock has a par value of $1 per share and a market price of $5 per share.



When the small stock dividend is declared, the market price of $5 per share is used to assign the value to the dividend as $250,000 (500,000 x 10% x $5). The common stock dividend distributable is $50,000 (500,000 x 10% x $1) since the common stock has a par value of $1 per share.










 Account
 Debit
 Credit


 Stock dividends
 250,000
 


 Common stock dividend distributable
 
 50,000


 Paid-in capital in excess of par-common stock
 
 200,000






When the company distributes the stock dividend it can make the journal entry:










 Account
Debit
Credit


 Common stock dividend distributable
 50,000
 


 Common Stock
 
 50,000





  Large Stock Dividend Accounting  

Large stock dividends are those in which the new shares issued are more than 25% of the value of the total shares outstanding before the dividend. In this case, the journal entry transfers the par value of the issued shares from retained earnings to paid-in capital.



If Company X declares a 30% stock dividend instead of 10%, the value assigned to the dividend would be the par value of $1 per share as it is considered a large stock dividend and would make the following journal entry of $150,000 (500,000 x 30% x $1) by using the par value, instead of the market price.










 Account
Debit
Credit


 Stock Dividends
 150,000
 


 Common stock dividend distributable
 
 150,000







What Is an Example of a Stock Dividend?
If a company issues a 5% stock dividend, it would increase the number of shares held by shareholders by 5%, or one share for every 20 shares owned. If there are one million shares in a company outstanding, this would translate into an additional 50,000 shares. A shareholder with 100 shares in the company would receive five additional shares.




Why Do Companies Issue Stock Dividends?
Dividends, whether in cash or in stock, are the shareholders' cut of the company's profit. They also are a reward for holding the stock rather than selling it. A company may issue a stock dividend rather than cash if it doesn't want to deplete its cash reserves.




What Is the Difference Between a Stock Dividend and a Cash Dividend?
A stock dividend is paid out in the form of company shares. The stock dividend is not taxable until the shares are sold. A cash dividend is paid out as cash. It's taxable for that year. The company will send you a 1099-DIV form at the end of the year.




Is a Stock Dividend a Good or Bad Thing?
Dividends are always a good thing, whether they're in shares or in cash. However, if you're buying dividend-paying stocks in order to create a regular source of income, you might prefer to get the cash.




What Is a Good Dividend Yield?
A dividend-paying stock generally pays in a range of 2% to 5% annually, whether in cash or in shares. When you look at a stock listing online, check the "dividend yield" line to find out what the company is currently paying out.


   The Bottom Line  

A stock dividend is a payment to shareholders that is made in additional shares instead of cash. The stock dividend rewards shareholders without reducing the company's cash balance. It has the adverse effect of diluting earnings per share.



Stock dividends may signal financial instability, or at least limited cash reserves. For the investor, stock dividends offer no immediate payoff but may increase in value in time.
What Is the Stock Exchange Daily Official List (SEDOL)?  

The stock exchange daily official list (SEDOL) is a seven-character identification code assigned to securities that trade on the London Stock Exchange and various smaller exchanges in the United Kingdom. SEDOL codes are used for unit trusts, investment trusts, insurance-linked securities, and domestic and foreign stocks. SEDOL codes are comparable to CUSIP numbers, which are codes issued by the Committee on Uniform Securities Identification Procedures for stocks traded in the United States.


   Understanding the Stock Exchange Daily Official List (SEDOL)  

New SEDOL codes may be issued for a number of reasons, including changes in corporate headquarters, corporate mergers, the issuance of a new ISIN, takeovers, company name changes, and when share reclassifications occur.


   The Makeup of SEDOL Classification Codes  

All SEDOL codes have seven characters, split into two parts: the first six characters are an alphanumeric code, and the seventh character is a trailing check digit. Within the alphanumeric part, letters from B to Z are allowed while numbers from 0 to 9 are allowed as numerals.



SEDOL codes that were issued before January 2004 were strictly composed of numeric characters. Since January 26, 2004, SEDOL codes have been issued sequentially with both numbers and letters, starting with B000009. For each character position, numbers always go before letters, and vowels are never used. Therefore, SEDOL codes issued after January 2004 begin with a letter.



The check digit for the SEDOL code is selected in order to make the weighted sum of all seven characters a multiple of 10. This digit is calculated using the weighted sum of the first six characters. Letters are assigned numbers for this process: Each letter equals nine plus the number that correlates to its position in the alphabet. For example, C would equal 12 (9 + 3).





Key Takeaways

SEDOL Codes are unique seven-character alphanumeric identifiers assigned to securities that trade on the London Stock Exchange and other smaller exchanges in the United Kingdom. ﻿SEDOL codes have a unique checksum character assigned at the end. The seventh digit is a weighted sum of the first six characters. SEDOL codes are an important innovation because they have decreased trade costs and increased the efficiency of trade and securities transactions.


   The Significance of SEDOL Classification Codes  

The London Stock Exchange credits the SEDOL as an important and unique market-level security identifier that is recognized globally, decreases costs incurred by trade failure across borders, and increases the efficiency of trade and securities transactions. SEDOL codes help the United Kingdom's exchanges provide a higher caliber of service by reducing such failures and streamlining the trading process.



Several characteristics of SEDOL codes make them vital and significant. Unique, assigned country-level numbers make for easy identification, with one assigned to each country. SEDOL codes are also prompt, with reduced issuance processing time frames. One last characteristic that makes SEDOL codes significant is commonality: Codes are allocated to every country for listed and unlisted securities, and they cover every asset class.



Ultimately, SEDOL codes are apropos in today’s worldwide marketplace, as exchanges need a secure and identifiable method of tracking assets being traded. London and the United Kingdom rely on SEDOL codes for their uniqueness and efficiency in tracking assets, and for their ability to ensure that investors buy the correct stocks.


   Example of SEDOL Classification Codes  

Banking giant HSBC was listed on the London Stock Exchange (LSE) in 1991 and has a SEDOL code of 0540528.﻿﻿ To check whether the reported SEDOL number is correct, traders must multiply digits with their assigned weight and add them. If the resulting number is a multiple of ten, then the code is correct.



In HSBC's case, the calculation would be as follows:



0+5X3+4X1+0+5X3+2X9+1X8 = 60, which is a multiple of 10.
What Is a Stock Exchange-Traded Fund (ETF)?  

The term stock exchange-traded fund (ETF) refers to a security that tracks a particular set of equities. These ETFs trade on exchanges the same way normal stocks do and track equities just like an index. They can track stocks in a single industry or an entire index of equities. Investors who purchase shares of stock exchange ETF can gain exposure to a basket of equities and limited company-specific risk associated with single stocks, providing them with a cost-effective way to diversify their portfolios.





Key Takeaways

A stock exchange-traded fund tracks a set of stocks.These ETFs provide investors with immediate diversification within a low cost, easily tradable vehicle.Research suggests that passive-investment vehicles like ETFs tend to return more than actively-managed vehicles like mutual funds over the long run.


   Understanding Stock Exchange-Traded Funds (ETFs)  

An exchange-traded fund is an asset that allows investors to track any number of things, such as indexes, commodities, sectors, or even stocks. Investors can purchase shares in these securities, which trade on stock exchanges. Prices change regularly through the course of a trading day, just like stocks. They are generally considered a more cost-effective and more liquid investment compared to mutual funds.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿



As mentioned above, ETFs can also track stocks. These are called stock exchange-traded funds. These securities allow investors to gain exposure to a basket of equities in a specific sector or index without purchasing individual stocks. For instance, these ETFs can track stocks in the energy sector or an entire index of equities like the S&P 500. Other tracking methods include the Stochastic Oscillator and the Stochastic Momentum Index.﻿﻿



There is also a group of ETFs that bet against the success of an index or sector, meaning the asset performs well when the underlying asset struggles. Unlike a mutual fund, a stock ETF charges minimal management fees and carries low expense ratios.﻿﻿ This makes it an ideal tool for investors of any skill level looking to maintain low costs and generate consistent returns. 






The original purpose of investing in ETFs was to meet long-term goals, but they can be traded like any other stock in that investors can short or buy on margin.



Since they give investors access to a broad range of equities or indexes makes these (and others), stock ETFs are generally considered very diversified assets. This instant diversification limits some of the unsystematic risk associated with company stocks and comes in a simple, low-cost, and tax-efficient tool that can be accessed through most online brokerages.





2,204

The number of ETFs that are trading in the United States, as of 2020, giving investors a huge number of potential funds to choose from.


   Benefits of Stock Exchange-Traded Funds (ETFs)  

Stock ETFs offer investors a wealth of benefits so it makes sense that fund inflows have increased. In fact, as of Nov. 2020, the ETF market in the United States topped a record $5 trillion in assets.﻿﻿



The broad advantages cannot go understated. They are an excellent option for investors who want to diversify their portfolio in a flexible, low cost, and tax-efficient manner. In fact, a growing body of research suggests passive investments like stock ETFs tend to outperform actively managed funds over a long time frame.﻿﻿


   Types of Stock Exchange-Traded Funds (ETFs)  

The more popular stock ETFs track benchmark indexes like the S&P 500 or Dow 30. For instance, the SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) is consistently the most active asset with an average daily volume exceeding 85 million shares in the three months preceding Feb. 28, 2021.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿



Other styles of stock ETFs adopt a factor-based strategy that accounts for specific attributes like market capitalization, momentum, and value. This subset is a popular strategy known as Smart Beta, which attempts to deliver better risk-adjusted returns than a conventional market capitalization-weighted index.



Sector funds are another popular ETF category that tracks the stocks of a specific industry like energy, financials, and technology.
What Is a Stock Keeping Unit (SKU)?  

A stock-keeping unit (SKU) is a scannable bar code, most often seen printed on product labels in a retail store. The label allows vendors to automatically track the movement of inventory. The SKU is composed of an alphanumeric combination of eight-or-so characters. The characters make up a code that tracks the price, product details, manufacturer, and point-of-sale.



SKUs may also be applied to intangible but billable products, such as units of repair time in an auto body shop or for warranties.





Key Takeaways

A stock-keeping unit (SKU) is a scannable code to help vendors automatically track the movement of inventory.SKUs often appear as bar codes or QR codes.Each item along with where it is sold will have its own unique SKU (but should not be confused with UPC barcodes)SKUs help vendors determine which products require reordering and provide sales data.SKUs are also used for units of repair time units, services, and warranties.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Understanding Stock Keeping Units (SKUs)  

SKUs are used by stores, catalogs, e-commerce vendors, service providers, warehouses, and product fulfillment centers to track inventory levels. Scannable SKUs and a POS system mean that it is easy for managers to determine which products need to be restocked. When a customer buys an item at the point-of-sale (POS), the SKU is scanned and the POS system automatically removes the item from the inventory as well as recording other data such as the sale price.



SKUs should not be confused with model numbers, although businesses may embed model numbers within SKUs.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020 



Businesses create unique SKUs for their goods and services. For example, a store that sells shoes creates internal SKUs that show a product’s details, such as color, size, style, price, manufacturer, and brand. For example, the SKU for purple Ugg boots in the Bailey Bow style, size 6, may read "UGG-BB-PUR-06."






By adding SKUs to every product, store owners can easily track the quantity of available products. Owners can create threshold limits to let them know when new purchase orders must be made.


  Why Are SKUs Important?  

SKUs let shoppers compare the characteristics of similar items. For example, when a shopper buys a specific DVD, online retailers might display similar movies purchased by other customers based on SKU information. This method may trigger additional purchases by the customer, thereby increasing a company’s revenue.



SKUs also allow data to be collected on sales. For example, a store can see which items are selling well and which are not based on the scanned SKUs and the POS data.


   Stock Keeping Units vs. Universal Product Codes  

Because companies internally create SKUs to track inventory, the SKUs for identical products vary among businesses. Different SKUs help retailers design advertising campaigns without interference from other vendors.



For example, if a company provides the SKU to advertise a certain discounted refrigerator, shoppers cannot easily view the same refrigerator at other sellers based on the SKU alone. This stops competitors from matching advertised prices and poaching customers. In contrast, universal product codes (UPCs) are identical regardless of which business is selling the items.





SKUs Today

SKUs are making the shopping experience more efficient than ever before. For example, when shoe shopping in the past, clerks would have had to visually scour the back stockroom and hunt for a specific model of shoes in the correct size and color. Today, many retailers are equipped with portable scanners enabling salespeople to check back-of-the-store inventory by simply scanning a floor sample. Moreover, online shopping logistics are greatly improved and enhanced via SKUs.




Is a Barcode a SKU?
While SKUs are often depicted as barcodes, they are not always used for the same purposes. Barcodes on products at a store (known as UPCs), for example, are meant to identify products of the same type regardless of where they are sold. SKUs, on the other hand, will also uniquely identify the seller or vendor as well. In addition, UPC barcodes will typically feature only numbers, while SKUs are alpha-numeric and can vary in length.




How Can I Get an SKU for My Product?
SKU numbers will typically appear on a product along with its UPC barcode. Because SKU numbers are intended for the producer to keep track of items, they are not universally standardized - they are company-specific. That means that you can make up any SKU system that fits your needs for your products. Typically, you will want to create a system that maintains a consistent logic, starting with top-level identifiers followed by more unique product- and vendor-specific codes.




Why Would I Want an SKU Code on a Product?
Having an SKU code allows you to track products and sales more easily. This helps with inventory and supply-chain management. With an SKU it is less likely that the wrong item will ship to customers, and also assists in returns if needed.
What Is the Stock Market?  

The term stock market refers to several exchanges in which shares of publicly held companies are bought and sold. Such financial activities are conducted through formal exchanges and via over-the-counter (OTC) marketplaces that operate under a defined set of regulations. 



Both “stock market” and “stock exchange” are often used interchangeably. Traders in the stock market buy or sell shares on one or more of the stock exchanges that are part of the overall stock market.



The leading U.S. stock exchanges include the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and the Nasdaq.





Key Takeaways


Stock markets are venues where buyers and sellers meet to exchange equity shares of public corporations.
Stock markets are components of a free-market economy because they enable democratized access to investor trading and exchange of capital.
Stock markets create efficient price discovery and efficient dealing.
The U.S. stock market is regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and local regulatory bodies.













Ellen Lindner / Investopedia


   Understanding the Stock Market  

The stock market allows buyers and sellers of securities to meet, interact, and transact. The markets allow for price discovery for shares of corporations and serve as a barometer for the overall economy. Buyers and sellers are assured of a fair price, high degree of liquidity, and transparency as market participants compete in the open market.



The first stock market was the London Stock Exchange which began in a coffeehouse, where traders met to exchange shares, in 1773. The first stock exchange in the United States began in Philadelphia in 1790. The Buttonwood Agreement, so named because it was signed under a buttonwood tree, marked the beginning of New York’s Wall Street in 1792. The agreement was signed by 24 traders and was the first American organization of its kind to trade in securities. The traders renamed their venture the New York Stock and Exchange Board in 1817.



A stock market is a regulated and controlled environment. In the United States, the main regulators include the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA).



The earliest stock markets issued and dealt in paper-based physical share certificates. Today, stock markets operate electronically.






Though it is called a stock market, other securities, such as exchange-traded funds (ETFs) are also traded in the stock market.






   How the Stock Market Works  

Stock markets provide a secure and regulated environment where market participants can transact in shares and other eligible financial instruments with confidence, with zero to low operational risk. Operating under the defined rules as stated by the regulator, the stock markets act as primary markets and secondary markets.



As a primary market, the stock market allows companies to issue and sell their shares to the public for the first time through the process of an initial public offering (IPO). This activity helps companies raise necessary capital from investors.



A company divides itself into several shares and sells some of those shares to the public at a price per share. To facilitate this process, a company needs a marketplace where these shares can be sold and this is achieved by the stock market. A listed company may also offer new, additional shares through other offerings at a later stage, such as through rights issues or follow-on offerings. They may even buy back or delist their shares.



Investors will own company shares in the expectation that share value will rise or that they will receive dividend payments or both. The stock exchange acts as a facilitator for this capital-raising process and receives a fee for its services from the company and its financial partners.Using the stock exchanges, investors can also buy and sell securities they already own in what is called the secondary market.



The stock market or exchange maintains various market-level and sector-specific indicators, like the S&P (Standard & Poor’s) 500 index and the Nasdaq 100 index, which provide a measure to track the movement of the overall market.






Following an IPO, the stock exchange serves as a trading platform for buying and selling the outstanding shares. This constitutes the secondary market. The stock exchange earns a fee for every trade that occurs on its platform during secondary market activity.


   What Are the Functions of a Stock Market?  

The stock market ensures price transparency, liquidity, price discovery, and fair dealings in trading activities.



The stock market guarantees all interested market participants have access to data for all buy and sell orders, thereby helping in the fair and transparent pricing of securities. The market also ensures efficient matching of appropriate buy and sell orders.



Stock markets need to support price discovery where the price of any stock is determined collectively by all of its buyers and sellers. Those qualified and willing to trade should get instant access to place orders and the market ensures that the orders are executed at a fair price.



Traders on the stock market include market makers, investors, traders, speculators, and hedgers. An investor may buy stocks and hold them for the long term, while a trader may enter and exit a position within seconds. A market maker provides necessary liquidity in the market, while a hedger may trade in derivatives.


   How Stock Markets Are Regulated  

Most nations have a stock market, and each is regulated by a local financial regulator or monetary authority, or institute. The SEC is the regulatory body charged with overseeing the U.S. stock market.



The SEC is a federal agency that works independently of the government and without political pressure. The mission of the SEC is stated as “protecting investors, maintaining fair, orderly, and efficient markets, and facilitating capital formation.”



Companies listed on the stock market exchanges are regulated, and their dealings are monitored by the SEC. In addition, the exchanges set certain requirements such as mandating timely filing of quarterly financial reports and instant reporting of relevant corporate developments, to ensure that all market participants are equally informed.



Failure to adhere to the regulations can lead to suspension of trading and other disciplinary measures.




What Is the Significance of the Stock Market?
The stock market is a component of a free-market economy. It allows companies to raise money by offering stock shares and corporate bonds and allows investors to participate in the financial achievements of the companies, make profits through capital gains, and earn income through dividends. The stock market works as a platform through which savings and investments of individuals are efficiently channeled into productive investment opportunities and add to the capital formation and economic growth of the country.




What Is an Alternate Trading System?
Alternative trading systems are venues for matching large buy and sell transactions and are not regulated like exchanges. Dark pools and many cryptocurrency exchanges are private exchanges or forums for securities and currency trading and operate within private groups.




Who Helps an Investor Trade on the Stock Market?
Stockbrokers act as intermediaries between the stock exchanges and the investors by buying and selling stocks and portfolio managers are professionals who invest portfolios, or collections of securities, for clients. Investment bankers represent companies in various capacities, such as private companies that want to go public via an IPO or companies that are involved in pending mergers and acquisitions.
What Is a Stock Market Crash?  

A stock market crash is a rapid and often unanticipated drop in stock prices. A stock market crash can be a side effect of a major catastrophic event, economic crisis, or the collapse of a long-term speculative bubble. Reactionary public panic about a stock market crash can also be a major contributor to it, inducing panic selling that depresses prices even further.



Famous stock market crashes include those during the 1929 Great Depression, Black Monday of 1987, the 2001 dotcom bubble burst, the 2008 financial crisis, and during the 2020 COVID-19 pandemic.





Key Takeaways

A stock market crash is an abrupt drop in stock prices, which may trigger a prolonged bear market or signal economic trouble ahead.Market crashes can be made worse be fear in the market and herd behavior among panicked investors to sell.Several measures have been put in place to prevent stock market crashes, including circuit breakers and trading curbs to lessen the effect of a sudden crash.


   Understanding Stock Market Crashes  

Although there is no specific threshold for stock market crashes, they are generally considered as abrupt double-digit percentage drop in a stock index over the course of a few days. Stock market crashes often make a significant impact on the economy. Selling shares after a sudden drop in prices and buying too many stocks on margin prior to one are two of the most common ways investors can to lose money when the market crashes.



Well-known U.S. stock market crashes include the market crash of 1929, which resulted from economic decline and panic selling and sparked the Great Depression, and Black Monday (1987), which was also largely caused by investor panic.



Another major crash occurred in 2008 in the housing and real estate market and resulted in what we now refer to as the Great Recession. High-frequency trading was determined to be a cause of the flash crash that occurred in May 2010 and wiped off trillions of dollars from stock prices.



In March 2020, stock markets around the world declined into bear market territory because of the emergence of a pandemic of the COVID-19 coronavirus.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021


   Preventing a Stock Market Crash  
  Circuit Breakers  

Since the crashes of 1929 and 1987, safeguards have been put in place to prevent crashes due to panicked stockholders selling their assets. Such safeguards include trading curbs, or circuit breakers, which prevent any trade activity whatsoever for a certain period of time following a sharp decline in stock prices, in hopes of stabilizing the market and preventing it from falling further.



For example, the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) has a set of thresholds in place to guard against crashes. They provide for trading halts in all equities and options markets during a severe market decline as measured by a single-day decline in the S&P 500 Index. According to the NYSE:﻿﻿



A market-wide trading halt can be triggered if the S&P 500 Index declines in price as compared to the prior day’s closing price of that index.The triggers have been set by the markets at three circuit breaker thresholds—7% (Level 1), 13% (Level 2), and 20% (Level 3).A market decline that triggers a Level 1 or Level 2 circuit breaker after 9:30 a.m. ET and before 3:25 p.m. ET will halt market-wide trading for 15 minutes, while a similar market decline at or after 3:25 p.m. ET will not halt market-wide trading.A market decline that triggers a Level 3 circuit breaker, at any time during the trading day, will halt market-wide trading for the remainder of the trading day.






Stock market crashes wipe out equity-investment values and are most harmful to those who rely on investment returns for retirement. Although the collapse of equity prices can occur over a day or a year, crashes are often followed by a recession or depression.


  Plunge Protection  

Markets can also be stabilized by large entities purchasing massive quantities of stocks, essentially setting an example for individual traders and curbing panic selling. In one famous example, the Panic of 1907, a 50% drop in stocks in New York set off a financial panic that threatened to bring down the financial system. J. P. Morgan, the famous financier, and investor, convinced New York bankers to step in and use their personal and institutional capital to shore up markets. However, these methods are not always effective and are unproven.
What Is a Stock Option?  

A stock option (also known as an equity option), gives an investor the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell a stock at an agreed-upon price and date. There are two types of options: puts, which is a bet that a stock will fall, or calls, which is a bet that a stock will rise. 



Because it has shares of stock (or a stock index) as its underlying asset, stock options are a form of equity derivative and may be called equity options.



Employee stock options (ESOs) are a type of equity compensation given by companies to some employees or executives that effectively amount to call options. These differ from listed equity options on stocks that trade in the market, as they are restricted to a particular corporation issuing them to their own employees.





Key Takeaways

Stock options give a trader the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell shares of a certain stock at an agreed-upon price and date. Stock options are a common form of equity derivative.One equity options contract generally represents 100 shares of the underlying stock. There are two primary types of options contracts: calls and puts.Employee stock options (ESOs) are when a company effectively grants call options to certain employees as compensation.


   Understanding Stock Options  

Options are a type of financial instrument known as a derivative. This means their worth is based on, or derived from, the value of an underlying security or asset. In the case of stock options, that asset is shares of a company's stock. The option is a contract that creates an agreement between two parties to have the option to sell or buy the stock at some point in the future at a specified price. The price is known as the strike price or exercise price.Stock options come in two basic forms:



Call options afford the holder the right, but not the obligation, to buy the asset at a stated price within a specific timeframe.
Put options afford the holder the right, but not the obligation, to sell the asset at a stated price within a specific timeframe.



Therefore, if XYZ stock is trading at $100, a $120-strike call would become worthwhile to exercise (i.e., convert into shares at the strike price) only if the market price rises above $120. Or, an $80-strike put would be worthwhile if the shares drop below $80. At that point, both options would be said to be in-the-money (ITM), meaning that they have some intrinsic value (namely, the difference between the strike price and the market price). Otherwise, the options are out-of-the-money (OTM), and consist of extrinsic value (also known as time value). OTM options still have value since the underlying asset has some probability of moving into the money on or before the option expires. This probability is reflected in the option's price.



Equity options are derived from a single equity security. Investors and traders can use equity options to take a long or short position in a stock without actually buying or shorting the stock. This is advantageous because taking a position with options allows the investor/trader more leverage in that the amount of capital needed is much less than a similar outright long or short position on margin. Investors and traders can, therefore, profit more from a price movement in the underlying stock. 






Exercising an option means using the option holder's right to convert the contract into shares at the strike price.


   Stock Option Parameters  
  American vs. European Styles  

There are two different styles of options: American and European. American options can be exercised at any time between the purchase and expiration date. European options, which are less common, can only be exercised on the expiration date.


  Expiration Date  

Options contracts exist for only a certain period of time. This is known as the expiration date. Options listed with longer expiration dates will have more time value since there is a greater chance of an option becoming in-the-money the longer there is for the underlying stock to move around. Option expiration dates are set according to a fixed schedule (known as an options cycle) and typically range from daily or weekly expirations to monthly and up to one year or more.


  Strike Price  

The strike price determines whether an option should be exercised. It is the price that a trader expects the stock to be above or below by the expiration date.



As an example, if a trader is betting that International Business Machine Corp. (IBM) will rise in the future, they might buy a call for a specific month and a particular strike price. For example, a trader is betting that IBM's stock will rise above $150 by the middle of January. They may then buy a January $150 call.


  Contract Size  

Contracts represent a specific number of underlying shares that a trader may be looking to buy. One contract is equal to 100 shares of the underlying stock.



Using the previous example, a trader decides to buy five call contracts. Now the trader would own five January $150 calls. If the stock rises above $150 by the expiration date, the trader would have the option to exercise or buy 500 shares of IBM’s stock at $150, regardless of the current stock price. If the stock is worth less than $150, the options will expire worthless, and the trader will lose the entire amount spent to buy the options, also known as the premium.


  Premium  

The premium is the price paid for an option, It is determined by taking the price of the call and multiplying it by the number of contracts bought, then multiplying it by 100.



In our example, if a trader buys five January IBM $150 Calls for $1 per contract, the trader would spend $500. However, if a trader wanted to bet the stock would fall they would buy the puts.






The volatility of the underlying security is a key concept in options pricing theory. In general, the greater the volatility, the higher the premium required for all options listed on that security.


   Trading Stock Options  

Stock options are listed for trading on several exchanges, including the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE), the Philadelphia Stock Exchange (PHLX), and the International Securities Exchange (ISE), among several others.



Options can be bought or sold depending on the strategy a trader is using. Continuing with the example above, if a trader thinks IBM shares are poised to rise, they can buy the call, or they can also choose to sell or write the put. In this case, the seller of the put would not pay a premium but would receive the premium. A seller of five IBM January $150 puts would receive $500.



Should the stock trade above $150, the option would expire worthless allowing the seller of the put to keep all of the premium. However, should the stock close below the strike price, the seller would have to buy the underlying stock at the strike price of $150. If that happens, it would create a loss of the premium and additional capital, since the trader now owns the stock at $150 per share, despite it trading at lower levels.



Another popular equity options technique is trading option spreads. Traders take combinations of long and short option positions, with different strike prices and expiration dates, for the purpose of extracting profit from the option premiums with minimal risk.


   Example of Stock Options  

In the example below, a trader believes Nvidia Corp’s (NVDA) stock is going to rise in the future to over $170. They decide to buy 10 January $170 calls which trade at a price of $16.10 per contract. It would result in the trader spending $16,100 to purchase the calls. However, for the trader to earn a profit, the stock would need to rise above the strike price and the cost of the calls, or $186.10. Should the stock not rise above $170, the options would expire worthless, and the trader would lose the entire premium.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020 



Additionally, if the trader wants to bet that Nvidia will fall in the future, they could buy 10 January $120 Puts for $11.70 per contract. It would cost the trader a total of $11,700. For the trader to earn a profit the stock would need to fall below $108.30. Should the stock close above $120 the options would expire worthless, resulting in loss of the premium.


   Employee Stock Options  

Companies sometimes grant call options to certain employees as a form of equity compensation to incentivize good performance or reward seniority. Employee stock options (ESOs) effectively give an employee the right to buy the company’s stock at a specified price for a finite period of time. ESOs often have vesting schedules that limit the ability to exercise. If the stock's market price has risen once the vesting periods end, the employee can benefit greatly by exercising those options.



For example, if you begin to work at a startup, you might be given stock options for 12,000 shares of the startup's stock as part of your compensation. These options aren't given to you immediately; they vest over a designated period of time. Vesting means it becomes available to use. So after one year, you might be able to exercise 3,000 shares, then another 3,000 each year after that. By the end of four years, all 12,000 shares will be vested.



Employee stock options usually come with a "cliff" as well. This is the amount of time you must work with the company to receive your shares. If you get a new job before you reach the cliff, you lose all your stock options. After that cliff, even if you leave the company, your options will continue to vest on schedule.






Options often come with an expiration date, which is the last point at which you can exercise your option. This could be a set number of years after the option is granted or a set number of days after you leave the company. The details of the expiration date should be in your contract.



Employee stock options are not publicly-traded: they are granted exclusively by corporations to their employees. Upon ESO exercise, the company must grant new shares to that employee, which has a dilutive effect as it increases the overall number of shares. Investors should pay attention to the number of employee options that have been granted to understand their fully-dilutive potential.


   How to Calculate the Value of Your Stock Options  

If the company you hold options for is publicly traded, the value of your stock options depends on the current value of the stock. Calculate how much it would be worth if you were buying or selling the number of shares you have an option for at the public price. Then, calculate how much it would be worth to buy or sell the same number of share at the price of your option. The difference between them is the value of your stock option.



If the company isn't publicly traded, it becomes a little trickier. If the business has received a valuation that determines how much each share in it is worth, then can give you a starting point to value your options. But that's still a speculative number.



The number of shares (or options) out there also affects the value of yours. The more shares there are (for example, if most employees have been given stock options they can exercise), then the lower the value of each individual share in the business.



The value of your options also depends on the value of the stock itself. If you have an employee stock option to buy 20,000 shares at $2 a share, but the stock is currently trading at $1 a share, then your option currently has no value. If the price of the share rises to $3, however, then your stock options have a value of $20,000.


   How to Exercise Your Stock Options  

When you exercise your stock options, that is when you actually buy or sell them. An employee with stock options, for example, can only exercise those options after they have vested.



If you are buying stock from an option, you buy it at the option price, regardless of what the current price of the stock is. So if you are an employee with an option to buy 12,000 shares of stock at $1 a share, you will need to pay $12,000. At that point, you would own the shares outright. You would be able to sell them (if you think the price is going to go down) or keep them (if you think the price is going to go up).



If you don't have the cash available, there are a few ways you can still exercise your stock options:



Exercise-and-sell: Purchase your options through a brokerage and immediately sell them. The brokerage handling the sale will effectively let you use the money from the sale to cover the cost of buying the shares.Exercise-and-sell-to-cover: Purchase your shares through your brokerage, then sell just enough to cover the cost of the transaction. You keep the rest of the shares.


   Stock Options and Taxes  

If you exercise your stock options, you will need to pay taxes on any profit that you make. How your taxes are calculated depends on the type of option you have and how long you wait between exercising your option and selling your shares.


  Taxes for Statutory Stock Options  

Statutory stock options are granted through an employee stock purchase plan or an incentive stock option (ISO). For this type of option, you aren't taxed when you are granted the option. In most cases, you will be taxed when you exercise the option. If that happens, your employer will report the income on your annual W-2 form.



If you are taxed after your exercise your option, it will be on the bargain element, which is the difference between the market value and the price you paid. For example, if the public price was $2 per share, and you exercised an option to buy 10,000 shares at $1 a share, you would pay taxes on the $10,000 difference between the two prices.



You would also have to pay capital gains tax whenever you sell your shares. If you hold the shares for less than a year after you sell them, they count as a short-term capital gain (or loss) and are taxed at your ordinary income rate. If you hold them for more than a year, they are taxed at the long-term capital gains rate (0%, 15%, or 20% depending on your income and filing status).


  Taxes for Nonstatutory Stock Options  

Nonstatutory stock options aren't granted through either an employee stock purchase plan or an ISO plan. In this case, you may have taxable income when you receive the option itself. For nonstatutory stock options, the taxable income you are considered to have depends on how readily determined the fair market value of the option can be.



If the stock is publicly traded, the fair market value can be readily determined. In that case, the option is treated as taxable income at the time it is granted to you. The tax rate for that income will depend on your total income and tax bracket. When you later exercise the option, you do not have to pay tax on any amount of income from the option.



Most nonstatutory stock options, though, don't have a fair market value that can be readily determined. In that case, it is not treated as income until you exercise or transfer the option. Once you do that, you report the fair market value of the stock you receive (minus the amount you paid) as taxable income. This is usually taxed as a capital gain or loss.


   Types of Stock Option Plans  

There are different ways of structuring a stock option plan. These provide different levels of risk and incentive to both employers and employees.












 Fixed Value Plan
 Fixed Number Plan
Megagrant Plan 




Structure
Employees/executives receive options worth a fixed value every year
Employees/executives receive a fixed number of options every year
Employees/executives receive single, large grant of options


Benefits
Allow companies to keep compensation in line with competitors
Strongly links pay and performance
Strongly links pay and performance



Minimizes risk that employee will leave for better compensation elsewhere
Creates an incentive to grow the company and increase stock value
High compensation that attracts top employees


Drawbacks
Low link between pay and performance
Don't protect future pay from changes in stock value prices
Significant decrease in value can remove incentive to boost stock price or remain at the company



Minimal incentive to employees/executives
Lower pay during times of market turmoil
Risky for companies that are prone to market volatility







Why Would You Buy an Option?
Essentially, a stock option allows an investor to bet on the rise or fall of a given stock by a specific date in the future. Often, large corporations will purchase stock options to hedge risk exposure to a given security. On the other hand, options also allow investors to speculate on the price of a stock, typically elevating their risk.




What Are the Two Main Types of Stock Options?
When investors trade stock options, they can choose between a call option or a put option. In a call option, the investor speculates that the underlying stock’s price will rise. A put option takes a bearish position, where the investor bets that the underlying stock’s price will decline. Options are purchased as contracts, which are equal to 100 shares of the underlying stock.




How Do Stock Options Work?
Consider an investor who speculates that the price of stock A will rise in three months. Currently, stock A is valued at $10. The investor then buys a call option with a $50 strike price, which is the price that the stock must exceed in order for the investor to make a profit. Fast-forward to the expiration date, where now, stock A has risen to $70. This call option would be worth $20 as stock A’s price is $20 higher than the strike price of $50. By contrast, an investor would profit from a put option if the underlying stock were to fall below his strike price by the expiration date. 




What Is Exercising a Stock Option?
To exercise a stock option involves buying (in the case of a call) or selling (in the case of a put) the underlying at its strike price. This is most often done before expiration when an option is deeply in the money with a delta close to 100, or at expiration if it is in the money at any amount. When exercised, the option disappears and the underlying asset is delivered (long or short, respectively) at the strike price. The trader can then choose to close out the position in the underlying at prevailing market prices, at a profit.


   The Bottom Line  

Options contracts are derivatives that give the holder the right to buy (in the case of a call) or sell (in the case of a put) a quantity of the underlying security at a specified price (the strike price) before the contract expires. Options on stocks come in standard units of 100 shares per contract, and many are listed on exchanges where investors and traders can buy and sell them with relative ease. Options pricing is an important financial achievement, where volatility has been identified as a key component of options theory,



ESOs are a form of equity compensation granted by companies to their employees and executives. Like a regular call option, an ESO gives the holder the right to purchase the underlying asset—the company’s stock—at a specified price for a finite period of time. ESOs are not the only form of equity compensation, but they are among the most common.
What Is a Stock Quote?  

A stock quote is the price of a stock as quoted on an exchange. A basic quote for a specific stock provides information, such as its bid and ask price, last traded price, and volume traded.





Key Takeaways

A stock quote is the price of a stock as quoted in decimals on an exchange.A stock quote is generally displayed with supplemental information, such as high and low prices for a given security in a day or its change in value.Pricing displayed with a stock quote reflects the buying and selling activity that influences the value of a given security.


   Understanding Stock Quotes  

All stocks in the U.S. have been quoted in decimals, rather than fractions, since April 9, 2001. As a result, bid-ask spreads have contracted dramatically, with spreads for the most widely traded stocks now as small as a penny, compared with 1/16th of a dollar (or $0.0625) earlier. Decimal pricing has resulted in substantial savings on transaction costs to U.S. investors because of tighter bid-ask spreads.



Investors increasingly access stock quotes online or on mobile devices, such as smartphones, rather than through print media, such as newspapers and magazines. A large number of Internet portals and websites offer delayed stock quotes at no charge, with real-time stock quotes generally restricted to paying subscribers.



Stock quotes can be presented with supplemental information and data, such as the high and low prices for given security that have been recorded over the course of the trading day. It may also show the change in the value of the security compared against the prior day’s closing price or the opening price of the current trading day. This difference in price might be shown as a percentage, revealing how much security has increased or declined in value. Analyst recommendations for a given security might also be presented with a stock quote. Such recommendations could be shown for hourly, daily, weekly, and monthly intervals.



Consider the stock quote for the social media behemoth Meta (formerly Facebook). It is displayed along with supplemental information: the company's ticker symbol (META), change in price (expressed in terms of percentage), and last quoted price at closing time.



Depending on the service and platform providing stock quotes, the information might strictly revolve around the current, latest pricing, or there can be expanded details such as metrics on the daily, weekly, monthly, and annual performance of the security. A stock quote can also include performance metrics on share prices for a multi-year period.



The pricing displayed with a stock quote reflects the buying and selling activity that influences the value of a given security. As each trading day unfolds, news and industry trends related to a security can affect the way investors choose to handle the shares. When beneficial updates are revealed, such as strong revenue and earnings reported by the company or positive test results for a product, the value of the shares can increase as more investors buy into the company. These shifts are reflected in the stock quotes that shareholders and other watchers of the company will use to make investment decisions.
What Is a Stock Screener?  

A stock screener is a set of tools that allow investors to quickly sort through the myriad of available stocks and increasing exchange-traded funds according to the investor’s own criteria. Stock screeners are most typically available on brokerage trading platforms (usually free), but there are also some independent subscription-based stock screeners available. Stock screeners allow investors to employ their own methodology about what makes a stock or ETF valuable (longer-term traders) or spot a potential trading opportunity (shorter-term traders). 





Key Takeaways

Stock screeners are tools that allow investors and traders to sort through thousands of individual securities to find those that fit their own methodologies.These tools are typically free to use on most brokerage sites and are available on some subscription sites, too.Screening tools are useful to both fundamental and technical traders, professional and individual investors.Stock screeners can deliver alerts if certain user-defined parameters have been met, drawing investor attention to key buying or selling opportunities.Screeners are dependent on user inputs to narrow down the field of investment opportunities.


   How Stock Screeners Work  

Stock screeners allow investors to weed through the extensive field of potential financial investments using their own criteria. Users begin the process by selecting certain investing parameters, based on their personal requirements.



For example, a fundamental investor may be most interested in market capitalization, analyst recommendations, earning per share (EPS), operating cash flow, multi-year return on investment (ROI), dividend yield, and the like. A technical trader would be more interested in moving average levels/crossovers, relative strength index (RSI) levels to indicate momentum, average directional index (ADX) readings to indicate strength, and chart patterns, among others.



The more criteria the user adds, the smaller the pool of potential securities to invest in becomes. The bottom line is that stock screeners typically have something for every investor and should be used to see what type of information is available before entering a trade or investment.


   Example of a Stock Screener  

When you first encounter a stock screener, you’re likely to be overwhelmed. There will be dozens of categories to view, both on the technical side and the fundamental side. So before you dive in, decide which side of the valley you’re on—technical or fundamental. Consider what you're looking for, what your priorities are, and what types of financial instruments might be of interest. Then you can begin to explore what the screener has to offer.



If your focus is on the short-term, you are likely to be drawn to the multiple technical tools available: charting; alerts; momentum studies, RSI, and more technical studies. If you’re focused on a particular stock or ETF, you can set alerts for when that particular stock crosses a set price level, or for when its RSI hits overbought/sold, for example.



If you’re a longer-term investor, you’ll find plenty of fundamental data (sometimes referred to as technical data), such as EPS, average daily volume, market capitalization, and the like. Such data can help you construct a portfolio keeping in mind that you have a longer-term interest in the company, beyond just the latest headlines.
What Is a Stock Split?  

A stock split happens when a company increases the number of its shares to boost the stock's liquidity. Although the number of shares outstanding increases by a specific multiple, the total dollar value of all shares outstanding remains the same because a split does not fundamentally change the company's value.



The most common split ratios are 2-for-1 or 3-for-1 (sometimes denoted as 2:1 or 3:1). This means for every share held before the split, each stockholder will have two or three shares, respectively, after the split.





Key Takeaways

A stock split is when a company increases the number of its outstanding shares to boost the stock's liquidity.Although the number of shares outstanding increases, there is no change to the company's total market capitalization as the price of each share will split as well.The most common split ratios are 2-for-1 or 3-for-1, which means every single share before the split will turn into multiple shares after the split.A company elects to perform a stock split to intentionally lower the price of a single share, making the company's stock more affordable without losing value.Reverse stock splits are the opposite transaction, in which a company lowers, instead of increasing, the number of shares outstanding, raising the share price accordingly.


   How a Stock Split Works  

A stock split is a corporate action in which a company issues additional shares to shareholders, increasing the total by the specified ratio based on the shares they held previously. Companies often choose to split their stock to lower its trading price to a more comfortable range for most investors and to increase the liquidity of trading in its shares.



Most investors are more comfortable purchasing, say, 100 shares of a $10 stock as opposed to 1 share of a $1,000 stock. So when the share price has risen substantially, many public companies end up declaring a stock split to reduce it. Although the number of shares outstanding increases in a stock split, the total dollar value of the shares remains the same compared with pre-split amounts, because the split does not make the company more valuable.



A company's board of directors can choose to split the stock by any ratio. For example, a stock split may be 2-for-1, 3-for-1, 5-for-1, 10-for-1, 100-for-1, etc. A 3-for-1 stock split means that for every one share held by an investor, there will now be three. In other words, the number of outstanding shares in the market will triple.



On the other hand, the price per share after the 3-for-1 stock split will be reduced by dividing the old share price by 3. That's because a stock split does not alter the company's value as measured by market capitalization.






   Special Considerations  

Market capitalization is calculated by multiplying the total number of shares outstanding by the price per share. For example, assume XYZ Corp. has 20 million shares outstanding and the shares are trading at $100. Its market cap will be 20 million shares x $100 = $2 billion.



Let's say the company’s board of directors decides to split the stock 2-for-1. Right after the split takes effect, the number of shares outstanding would double to 40 million, while the share price would be halved to $50. Although both the number of shares outstanding and the market price have changed, the company's market cap remains unchanged at (40 million shares x $50) $2 billion.






In the U.K., a stock split is referred to as a scrip issue, bonus issue, capitalization issue, or free issue.


  Advantages of a Stock Split  

Why do companies go through the hassle and expense of a stock split? First, a company often decides on a split when the stock price is quite high, making it expensive for investors to acquire a standard board lot of 100 shares.



Second, the higher number of shares outstanding can result in greater liquidity for the stock, which facilitates trading and may narrow the bid-ask spread. Increasing the liquidity of a stock makes trading in the stock easier for buyers and sellers. This can help companies repurchase their shares at a lower cost since their orders will have less of an impact on a more liquid security.



While a split, in theory, should have no effect on a stock's price, it often results in renewed investor interest, which can have a positive effect on the stock price. While this effect may wane over time, stock splits by blue-chip companies are a bullish signal for investors. A stock split may be viewed by some as a company wanting a bigger future runway for growth; for this reason, a stock split generally indicates executive-level confidence in the prospect of a company.



Many of the best companies routinely see their share price return to levels at which they previously split the stock, leading to another stock split. Walmart, for instance, split its stock 11 times on a 2-for-1 basis between the retailer's stock-market debut in October 1970 and March 1999. An investor who bought 100 shares in Walmart’s initial public offering (IPO) would have seen that stake grow to 204,800 shares over the next 30 years without any additional purchases.


  Disadvantages of a Stock Split  

Not all facets of a stock split benefit a company. The process of a stock split is expensive, requires legal oversight, and must be performed in accordance with regulatory laws. The company wanting to split their stock must pay a great deal to have no movement in its over market capitalization value.



A stock split isn't worthless, but it doesn't impact the fundamental position of a company and therefore doesn't create additional value. Some compare a stock split to cutting a piece of cake. If the dessert tastes horrible, it doesn't matter whether it has been cut into 10 pieces or 20 pieces.



Some opponents of stock splits view the action as having the potential to attract the wrong crowd of investors. Consider Berkshire Hathaway's Class A shares trading for hundreds of thousands of dollars. Had Warren Buffet split the stock, many traders in the general public would be able to afford his company's shares. Instead, to maintain equity ownership as exclusive, a company may want to intentionally not split its shares.



Last, there are implications for intentionally reducing the company's share price. Public exchanges such as the NASDAQ require stock to trade at or above $1. Should a share price drop below $1 for thirty consecutive days, the company will be issued a compliance warning and will have 180 days to regain compliance. Should the company's stock price still not meet minimum pricing requirements, the company risks being delisted.


   Example of a Stock Split  

In August 2020, Apple (AAPL) split its shares 4-for-1. Right before the split, each share was trading at around $540. After the split, the price per share at the market open was $135 (approximately $540 ÷ 4).



An investor who owned 1,000 shares of the stock pre-split would have owned 4,000 shares post-split. Apple's outstanding shares increased from 3.4 billion to approximately 13.6 billion, while the market capitalization remained largely unchanged at $2 trillion.



A company may choose to split its stock as many times as it would like. For instance, Apple also split its stock 7-for-1 in 2014, 2-for 1 in 2005, 2-for-1 in 2000, and 2-for-1 in 1987.






To convert a quantity of pre-split shares to post-split shares across multiple splits, multiple the ratio value of each split together. For example, a single pre-split share in 1987 would have eventually been split into 224 shares after the 2020 split. This is determined by multiplying 4, 7, 2, 2, and 2.


   Stock Splits vs. Reverse Stock Splits  

A traditional stock split is also known as a forward stock split. A reverse stock split is the opposite of a forward stock split. A company carrying out a reverse stock split decreases the number of its outstanding shares and increases the share price proportionately. As with a forward stock split, the market value of the company after a reverse stock split remains the same.



A company that takes this corporate action might do so if its share price had decreased to a level at which it runs the risk of being delisted from an exchange for not meeting the minimum price required for a listing. Certain mutual funds may not invest in stocks priced below a preset minimum per share. A company might also opt for a reverse split to make its stock more appealing to investors who may perceive higher-priced shares as more valuable.



A reverse/forward stock split is a special stock split strategy used by companies to eliminate shareholders holding less than a certain number of shares. A reverse/forward stock split consists of a reverse stock split followed by a forward stock split. The reverse split reduces the overall number of shares a shareholder owns, causing some shareholders who hold less than the minimum required by the split to be cashed out. The forward stock split then increases the number of shares owned by the remaining shareholders.




What Happens if I Own Shares That Undergo a Stock Split?
When a stock splits, it credits shareholders of record with additional shares, which are reduced in price in a comparable manner. For instance, in a typical 2:1 stock split, if you owned 100 shares that were trading at $50 just before the split, you would then own 200 shares at $25 each. Your broker would handle this automatically, so there is nothing you need to do.




Will a Stock Split Affect My Taxes?
No. The receipt of the additional shares will not result in taxable income under existing U.S. law. The tax basis of each share owned after the stock split will be half of what it was before the split. 




Are Stock Splits Good or Bad?
Stock splits are generally done when the stock price of a company has risen so high that it might become an impediment to new investors. Therefore, a split is often the result of growth or the prospects of future growth, and it's a positive signal. Moreover, the price of a stock that has just split may see an uptick if the lower nominal share price attracts new investors.




Does the Stock Split Make the Company More or Less Valuable?
Stock splits neither add nor subtract fundamental value. The split increases the number of shares outstanding, but the company's overall value does not change. Immediately following the split the share price will proportionately adjust downward to reflect the company's market capitalization. If a company pays dividends, the dividend per share will be adjusted accordingly, keeping overall dividend payments the same. Splits are also non-dilutive, meaning that shareholders will retain the same voting rights they had beforehand.




Can a Stock Split Be Anything Other Than 2-for-1?
While a 2:1 stock split is the most common, any other ratio may be used so long as it is approved by the company's board of directors and, in some cases, by shareholders. Split ratios may be, for instance, 3:1, 10:1, 3:2, etc. In the last case, if you owned 100 shares you would receive 50 additional shares post-split.
What Is a Stock Ticker Symbol?  

A stock symbol or ticker is a unique series of letters assigned to a security for trading purposes. Stocks listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) can have four or fewer letters. Nasdaq-listed securities can have up to five characters.



Symbols are just a shorthand way of describing a company's stock, so there is no significant difference between those that have three letters and those that have four or five. Stock symbols are also known as ticker symbols.





Key Takeaways

A stock symbol is an arrangement of characters—usually letters—representing publicly-traded securities on an exchange.When a company issues securities to the public marketplace, it selects an available symbol for its shares, often related to the company name.Investors and traders use the symbol to place trade orders.Additional letters added to stock symbols denote additional characteristics such as share class or trading restrictions.


   Understanding Ticker Symbols  

In the 1800s, when modern stock exchanges came into being, floor traders had to communicate the stock price of a traded company by writing or shouting out the name of the company in full. As the number of publicly traded companies increased from the dozens to the hundreds, they soon realized that this process was time-consuming and held up the information queue, unable to keep up with frequently-changing prices—especially after the advent of the stock-quoting ticker tape machine in 1867.



To be more efficient in relaying price changes on company stock to investors, company names were shortened to one to five alpha symbols. Today, stock tickers still exist, but digital displays have replaced paper ticker tape.



In addition to saving time and capturing a specific stock price at the right time, stock symbols are useful when two or more companies have similar monikers. For example, Citigroup (C) and Citizens Financial Group (CFG) have similar names, although they are not affiliated with each other: Citigroup is a global bank and Citizens Financial Group is a bank holding company for Citizens Bank. Both firms trade on the NYSE, with Citigroup trading under the ticker C and Citizens Financial Group under CFG.



There are also companies that are spin-offs of the same company and have similar stock symbols. In November 2015, Hewlett-Packard split into two separate companies—Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) and HP Inc. (HPQ).



Hewlett Packard Enterprise serves as the business service and hardware division and focuses on servers, storage, networking, and security. HP Inc. is the consumer-facing computer and printer division and has a smaller market for its products than HPE.






Some companies that trade on the Nasdaq with fewer than four letters include Meta (META), formerly Facebook, and MoneyGram International (MGI). However, companies moving from the NYSE to Nasdaq can retain their stock symbols.


   Types of Ticker Symbols  
  Preferred Shares  

If the company has more than one class of shares trading in the market, then it will have the class added to its suffix. If it is a preferred stock, the letters "PR" and the letter denoting the class will typically be added. For example, a fictional preferred stock called Cory's Tequila Corporate Preferred A-shares would have a symbol such as CTC.PR.A. Different sources quote preferred shares in slightly different ways.


  Share Voting Class  

Some stock symbols indicate whether the shares of a company have voting rights, especially if the company has more than one class of shares trading in the market. For example, Alphabet Inc. (formerly Google) has two classes of shares trading on the Nasdaq with stock symbols GOOG and GOOGL. Common shareholders of GOOG have no voting rights since GOOG shares are Class C shares, while GOOGL shares are Class A shares and have one vote each. For example, Berkshire Hathaway has two classes of shares trading on the NYSE: Class A and Class B. Class A shares are listed with stock symbol BRK.A, and Class B shares, which have lower voting rights than Class A trade with the symbol BRK.B.



Other types of ticker sumbols include those designated for mutual funds or options listed on stocks.


  Stock Ticker Modifiers  

Stock symbols are also used to convey information to investors about the trading status of a company or its shares. This information is usually represented on the NYSE by one letter following a dot after the stock’s standard company symbol.



On the Nasdaq, a fifth letter is added to stocks that are delinquent in certain exchange requirements. For example, with ACERW, the first four letters comprised the stock symbol for Acer Therapeutics Inc. (ACER), and the last letter ‘W’ indicated that the shares had warrants attached. A company that is in bankruptcy proceedings will have the Q after its symbol, and a non-U.S. company trading in the U.S. financial markets will have the letter Y following its ticker symbol.



The meaning of the letters from A to Z are:



A: Class A shares (e.g., BRK.A)
B: Class B shares (e.g., BRK.B)
C: Issuer Qualification Exception—the company does not meet all the exchange’s listing requirements but can remain listed on the exchange for a short time period.
D: New issue of existing stock
E: Delinquent or missed one or more SEC required filings (may also be denoted by .LF)
F: Foreign issue
G: First convertible bond
H: Second convertible bond
I: Third convertible bond
J: Voting share
K: Non-voting share
L: Miscellaneous (e.g., foreign preferred, third-class of warrants, preferred when-issued, fifth class preferred shares, etc.)
M: Fourth-class preferred shares
N: Third-class preferred shares
O: Second-class preferred shares
P: First-class preferred shares
Q: In bankruptcy proceedings
R: Rights
S: Shares of beneficial interest
T: With warrants or with rights
U: Units
V: When-issued and when-distributed. These shares are about to go through a corporate action plan that has already been announced, such as a stock split.
W: Warrants
X: Mutual Funds
Y: American Depositary Receipt (ADR)
Z: Miscellaneous situations (same as the letter L)
OB: Over-the-counter bulletin board
PK: Pink sheets stock
SC: Nasdaq Small-cap
NM: Nasdaq National Market






Companies trading on the NYSE typically have three or fewer letters, although they can have four, representing their stock symbols. Nasdaq firms generally have four- or five-letter symbols (e.g., Adobe Inc. (ADBE), Apple Inc. (AAPL), and Groupon Inc. (GRPN)).


   History of Ticker Symbols  

The ticker symbol was invented by Edward Calahan, a telegraph operator who worked for the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). Calahan developed the ticker symbol in 1867 as a way to quickly and accurately transmit stock prices over telegraph lines. Calahan's ticker symbol consisted of two letters (representing the company's name) followed by a number representing the number of shares being traded. The ticker symbol was transmitted via telegraph and displayed on tickertape machines, which were used to keep track of stock prices in near real-time.



Calahan's invention revolutionized the way stock prices were reported and helped to make the stock market more efficient and transparent. Today, ticker symbols are used by most major stock exchanges around the world and are an important part of the financial industry.



The first ticker symbol was used by the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) on November 15, 1867, to identify the shares of the Union Pacific Railroad Company. The ticker symbol consisted of two letters (UP) followed by a number representing the number of shares being traded.



As the number of publicly traded companies and securities increased, the NYSE expanded the use of ticker symbols to include three letters in the 1920s and four letters in the 1950s. Today, ticker symbols are used by most major stock exchanges around the world and consist of up to five letters. In addition to identifying specific securities, ticker symbols have also become an important part of financial branding and marketing. Many companies choose ticker symbols that are easy to remember or have some connection to their business or brand.


   How to Use a Ticker Symbol  

Ticker symbols are used to identify specific publicly traded companies and the securities they issue. They are typically made up of one to five letters and are used to identify a specific stock or bond on a stock exchange or financial platform.



Here are some ways to use a ticker symbol:



Identify a specific security: Ticker symbols are used to identify a specific security, such as a stock or bond, on a financial platform or stock exchange. For example, the ticker symbol for Apple Inc. is "AAPL," while the ticker symbol for the S&P 500 index is "SPX."Track stock prices: Ticker symbols are often used to track stock prices in real-time on financial news websites and stock ticker boards.Place a trade: Ticker symbols are used in stock trading orders to identify the specific security being purchased or sold.Research a company: Ticker symbols can be used to find information about a specific company, such as its financial statements and news articles.



To use a ticker symbol, you will typically need to enter it into a financial platform or stock exchange's search function or use it in a trading order. Ticker symbols are typically displayed alongside a company's name and stock price on financial news websites, stock ticker boards, and other financial platforms.




How Do I Find a Company's Stock Ticker Symbol?
To find a company's ticker symbol, you can search online financial databases, check the company's website, check the stock exchange's website, or ask a financial advisor or broker.If you are having trouble finding a company's ticker symbol, it is possible that the company is not publicly traded or is listed on an exchange outside of the United States. In these cases, it may be more difficult to find the ticker symbol.




Why Is It Called a Ticker Symbol?
Stock symbols are called tickers because they first appeared as imprints on tickertape transmitted by telegraph from stock exchanges to investors around the country. This name persisted, even after physical tickertape was replaced by more modern technologies.




What Are Some Examples of Stock Tickers?
Here are some examples of popular ticker symbols:Apple Inc. (AAPL)Alphabet Inc. (GOOGL)Microsoft Corporation (MSFT)Amazon.com, Inc. (AMZN)Meta (formerly Facebook) Inc. (META)Tesla Motors (TSLA)The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (GS)The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA)The S&P 500 Index (SPX)The NASDAQ Composite Index (COMP)


   The Bottom Line  

Stock ticker symbols are unique, alphabetic codes that are used to identify publicly traded companies and the securities they issue. They are typically made up of one to five letters and are used to identify a specific stock or bond on a stock exchange or financial platform. For example, the stock ticker symbol for Apple Inc. is "AAPL," while the ticker symbol for the S&P 500 index is "SPX." Ticker symbols are typically displayed alongside a company's name and stock price on financial news websites, stock ticker boards, and other financial platforms. They are also used in stock trading orders to identify the specific security being purchased or sold.
What Is a Stockbroker?  

A stockbroker is a financial professional who executes orders in the market on behalf of clients. A stockbroker may also be known as a registered representative (RR) or an investment advisor.



Most stockbrokers work for a brokerage firm and handle transactions for a number of individual and institutional customers. Stockbrokers are often paid on a commission basis although compensation methods vary by employer.



Brokerage firms and broker-dealer companies are also sometimes referred to generically as stockbrokers. These include both full-service brokers and discount brokers, who execute trades but do not offer individualized investing advice.



Most online brokers are discount brokers, at least at their basic levels of service, in which trades are executed for free or for a small set-price commission. Many online brokers now offer premium-level services with higher fees. Investopedia maintains lists of the best online brokers and best robo-advisors to help you find a broker that fits your needs.





Key Takeaways

A stockbroker is a financial professional who buys and sells stocks at the direction of clients.Most buy and sell orders are now made through online discount brokers. This automated process reduces fees.Wealthy individuals and institutions continue to use full-service brokers, who offer advice and portfolio management services as well as completing transactions.


   Understanding the Role of a Stockbroker  

Buying or selling stocks requires access to one of the major exchanges such as the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) or the NASDAQ. To trade on these exchanges you must be a member of the exchange or belong to a member firm. Member firms and many of the individuals who work for them are licensed as brokers or broker-dealers by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA).



While it is possible for an individual investor to buy stock shares directly from the company that issues them, it is much simpler to work with a stockbroker.



Until recent years, it was prohibitively expensive to get access to the stock markets. It was cost-effective only for high net-worth investors or for large institutional investors, such as the managers of pension funds. They used full-service brokers and could pay hundreds of dollars for executing a trade.



However, the rise of the internet and related advances in technology paved the way for discount brokers to provide online services with cheap, fast, and automated access to the markets. More recently, apps like Robinhood and SoFi have catered to micro-investors, allowing even fractional share purchases. Most accounts in the markets today are managed by the account owners and held by discount brokers.


   Stockbrokers in the 21st Century  

Brokers who are employed by discount broker firms may work as over-the-phone agents (known as voice brokers) available to answer brief questions, or as branch officers in a physical location. They also may consult with clients subscribing to premium tiers of the online broker.



A comparatively smaller number of stockbrokers work for investment banks or specialized brokerage firms. These companies handle large and specialized orders for institutional clients and high-net-worth individuals (HNWI).



Another recent development in broker services is the introduction of roboadvisers, algorithmic investment management carried out via web or mobile app interface. There is minimal individual interaction, keeping fees low.






Mobile phone apps like Robinhood and SoFi cater to micro-investors, allowing even fractional share purchases.


   Educational Requirements for Stockbrokers  

A bachelor's degree in finance or business administration is typically required for stockbrokers. A strong understanding of financial laws and regulations, accounting methods, principles of economics and currency, financial planning, and financial forecasting all are useful for working in the field.



Global credentials are also becoming increasingly sought-after as signals of legitimacy and financial acumen. Examples include the certified financial planner (CFP) and chartered financial analyst (CFA) designations.






Most successful stockbrokers have exceptional interpersonal skills and are able to maintain strong sales relationships-in addition to market knowledge and investing skills.


   Licensing Requirements for Stockbrokers  

In the U.S., registered brokers must hold the FINRA Series 7 and Series 63 or 66 licenses, and be sponsored by a registered investment firm. Floor brokers in the U.S. must also be members of the stock exchange where they work.



In Canada, would-be stockbrokers should be currently employed by a brokerage firm and are required to complete the Canadian Securities Course (CSC), Conduct and Practices Handbook (CPH), and the 90-day Investment Advisor Training Program (IATP).



In Hong Kong, applicants must be working for a licensed brokerage firm and pass three exams from the Hong Kong Securities Institute (HKSI). Those who pass the exam must still be approved by the financial regulatory body to receive a license.



In Singapore, becoming a trading representative requires passing four exams, Modules 1A, 5, 6, and 6A, administered by the Institute of Banking and Finance. The Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) and the Singapore Exchange (SGX) have licensing authority.



In the United Kingdom, stockbroking is heavily regulated and brokers must achieve qualifications from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Precise qualifications depend on the specific duties required of the broker as well as the employer.






Every country has its own credentialing requirements for stockbrokers.




What do stockbrokers do?
Stockbrokers serve as intermediaries between markets (e.g. exchanges) and the investing public. Brokers take order from customers and try to fill them at the best price possible. In return, they earn a fee known as a commission. Today, many stockbrokers have transitioned to financial advisors or planners as online brokerage platforms allow users to enter their own orders via the web or mobile app.




What's the difference between a discount and full-service broker?
Traditionally, a discount broker would only engage in buying and selling on behalf of customers, while a full-service broker would provide a broader breadth of financial services such as research, advice, portfolio management, and so on. Today, as online brokerages have forced commissions down to zero, discount brokers have distinguished themselves by also providing research and other services in addition to pure execution.




How much does a stockbroker make?
The median salary for a stockbroker in 2020 was $60,644, with an average range of $40,000 up to $123,000.
What Is Stockholders' Equity?  

Stockholders' equity is the remaining assets available to shareholders after all liabilities are paid. It is calculated either as a firm's total assets less its total liabilities or alternatively as the sum of share capital and retained earnings less treasury shares. Stockholders' equity might include common stock, paid-in capital, retained earnings, and treasury stock.



Conceptually, stockholders' equity is useful as a means of judging the funds retained within a business. If this figure is negative, it may indicate an oncoming bankruptcy for that business, particularly if there exists a large debt liability as well.





Key Takeaways

Stockholders' equity refers to the assets remaining in a business once all liabilities have been settled.This figure is calculated by subtracting total liabilities from total assets; alternatively, it can be calculated by taking the sum of share capital and retained earnings, less treasury stock.This metric is frequently used by analysts and investors to determine a company's general financial health. If equity is positive, the company has enough assets to cover its liabilities.A negative stockholders' equity may indicate an impending bankruptcy.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   How to Calculate Stockholders' Equity  

You can determine shareholders' equity by calculating the total assets and liabilities using the following formula:





Stockholder’s Equity


=


Total Assets


−


Total Liabilities



\text{Stockholder's Equity} = \text{Total Assets} - \text{Total Liabilities}


Stockholder’s Equity=Total Assets−Total Liabilities
All the information required to compute shareholders' equity is available on a company's balance sheet, including total assets:

Current Assets: These are assets that can be converted to cash within a year. These include cash, accounts receivable, and inventory.
Non-Current Assets: This category includes long-term assets that cannot be converted to cash or consumed within a year, such as investments; property, plant, and equipment; and intangibles, such as patents.

Total liabilities consist of current and long-term liabilities. Current liabilities are debts typically due for repayment within one year, including accounts payable and taxes payable. Long-term liabilities are obligations that are due for repayment in periods longer than one year, such as bonds payable, leases, and pension obligations. 


   How Stockholders' Equity Works  

Stockholders' equity is often referred to as the book value of the company and it comes from two primary sources:



The first source is the money originally and subsequently invested in the company through share offerings.
The second source consists of the retained earnings (RE) the company accumulates over time through its operations.



In most cases, retained earnings are the largest component of stockholders' equity. This is especially true when dealing with companies that have been in business for many years.



Shareholder equity can be either negative or positive. If positive, the company has enough assets to cover its liabilities. If negative, the company's liabilities exceed its assets. If prolonged, this is considered balance sheet insolvency. 



For this reason, many investors view companies with negative shareholder equity as risky or unsafe investments. Shareholder equity alone is not a definitive indicator of a company's financial health. If used in conjunction with other tools and metrics, the investor can accurately analyze the health of an organization.






Stockholders' equity is also referred to as shareholders' or owners' equity.


   Stockholders' Equity and Retained Earnings (RE)  

Retained earnings are a company's net income from operations and other business activities retained by the company as additional equity capital. Retained earnings are thus a part of stockholders' equity. They represent returns on total stockholders' equity reinvested back into the company.



These earnings accumulate and grow larger over time. At some point, accumulated retained earnings may exceed the amount of contributed equity capital and can eventually grow to be the main source of stockholders' equity.


   Stockholders' Equity and Paid-In Capital  

Companies fund their capital purchases with equity and borrowed capital. The equity capital/stockholders' equity can also be viewed as a company's net assets. You can calculate this by subtracting the total assets from the total liabilities. 



Investors contribute their share of paid-in capital as stockholders, which is the basic source of total stockholders' equity. The amount of paid-in capital from an investor is a factor in determining his/her ownership percentage.


   Stockholders' Equity and the Impact of Treasury Shares  

Companies may return a portion of stockholders' equity back to stockholders when unable to adequately allocate equity capital in ways that produce desired profits. This reverse capital exchange between a company and its stockholders is known as share buybacks. Shares bought back by companies become treasury shares, and their dollar value is noted in the treasury stock contra account.



Treasury shares continue to count as issued shares, but they are not considered to be outstanding and are thus not included in dividends or the calculation of earnings per share (EPS). Treasury shares can always be reissued back to stockholders for purchase when companies need to raise more capital. If a company doesn't wish to hang on to the shares for future financing, it can choose to retire the shares.






Equity is the corporation's owners' residual claim on assets after debts have been paid.


   Example of Stockholders' Equity  

Below is the balance sheet for Apple (AAPL) as of September 2020. For that period:















Apple Balance Sheet.



Total assets (in green) were $323.89 billionTotal liabilities (in red) were $258.55 billion 



Stockholders' equity was, therefore, $65.34 billion ($323.89 - $258.55).



Looking at the same period one year earlier, we can see that the year-over-year (YOY) change in equity was a decrease of $25.15 billion. The balance sheet shows this decrease is due to both a reduction in assets and an increase in total liabilities.



The value of $65.34 billion in shareholders' equity represents the amount left for stockholders if Apple liquidated all of its assets and paid off all of its liabilities.



An alternative calculation of company equity is the value of share capital and retained earnings less the value of treasury shares.



Stockholders' equity is an effective metric for determining the net worth of a company, but it should be used in tandem with the analysis of all financial statements, including the balance sheet, income statement, and cash flow statement.




What Is Included in Stockholders' Equity?
Total equity effectively represents how much a company would have left over in assets if the company went out of business immediately




What Are Some Examples of Stockholders' Equity?
Every company has an equity position based on the difference between the value of its assets and its liabilities. Positive equity indicates the company has a positive worth. A company's share price is often considered to be a representation of a firm's equity position.




How Do You Calculate Equity?
Stockholders' equity is equal to a firm's total assets minus its total liabilities. These figures can all be found on a company's balance sheet.




Is Stockholders’ Equity Equal to Cash on Hand?
No. Since equity accounts for total assets and total liabilities, cash and cash equivalents would only represent a small piece of a company's financial picture.


   The Bottom Line  

Investors and analysts look to several different ratios to determine the financial company. One of these is a company's return on equity. This shows how well management uses the equity from company investors to earn a profit. Part of the ROE ratio is the stockholders' equity, which is the total amount of a company's total assets and liabilities that appear on its balance sheet.
What Is a Stop-Limit Order?  

A stop-limit order is a conditional trade over a set time frame that combines the features of stop with those of a limit order and is used to mitigate risk. It is related to other order types, including limit orders (an order to either buy or sell a specified number of shares at a given price or better) and stop-on-quote orders (an order to either buy or sell a security after its price has surpassed a specified point).





Key Takeaways

Stop-limit orders are a conditional trade that combine the features of a stop loss with those of a limit order to mitigate risk.Stop-limit orders enable traders to have precise control over when the order should be filled, but they are not guaranteed to be executed.The stop price dictates the price whether the order is triggered, then the limit price dictates the price at which the order is filled.Stop-limit orders offer risk management, automation, and flexibility in trading, though they do not protect against price gaps and are slightly more complex to set.Traders often use stop-limit orders to lock in profits or limit downside losses.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   How Stop-Limit Orders Work  

The primary benefit of a stop-limit order is that the trader has precise control over when the order should be filled. The downside, as with all limit orders, is that the trade is not guaranteed to be executed if the stock/commodity does not reach the stop price during the specified time period.



A stop-limit order requires the setting of two price points: the stop price and the limit price. First, set the stop price which is the price at which you want the trade to be triggered. If the price of the security reaches or falls below the stop price, the trade will be triggered. Once these have been set



Then, set the limit price. The limit price is the price at which you want to buy or sell the security. This price is used to limit the maximum price you will pay or the minimum price you will receive for the trade. A time frame must also be set, during which the stop-limit order is considered executable.



The stop-limit order will be executed at a specified price, or better, after a given stop price has been reached. Once the stop price is reached, the stop-limit order becomes a limit order to buy or sell at the limit price or better. This type of order is an available option with nearly every online broker.



It's important to note that stop-limit orders do not guarantee that your trade will be executed. If the price of the security drops quickly or there is a gap in trading, the order may not be filled at the desired limit price or at all. This may result in missed opportunities of profit should the appropriate prices not be targeted.






   Features of Stop and Limit Orders  

A stop order is an order that becomes executable once a set price has been reached and is then filled at the current market price. A traditional stop order will be filled in its entirety, regardless of any changes in the current market price as the trades are completed.



A limit order is one that is set at a certain price. It is only executable at times when the trade can be performed at the limit price or at a price that is considered more favorable than the limit price. If trading activity causes the price to become unfavorable regarding the limit price, then the activity related to the order will be ceased. By combining the two orders, the investor has much greater precision in executing the trade.



A stop order is filled at the market price after the stop price has been hit, regardless of whether the price changes to an unfavorable position. This can lead to trades being completed at less than desirable prices should the market adjust quickly. Combining the stop order with the features of a limit order ensures that the order will not get filled once the pricing becomes unfavorable, based on the investor’s limit. Thus, in a stop-limit order, after the stop price is triggered, the limit order takes effect to ensure that the order is not completed unless the price is at or better than the limit price that the investor has specified.






Stop-limit orders are commonly free to enter into; ensure you understand your broker's fee structure before setting orders and unexpectedly being assessed order fees.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Stop-Limit Orders  
  Pros of Stop-Limit Orders  

There are several reasons why traders may rely heavily on stop-limit orders, as there are a handful of strong benefits of the order.



Price Control: With a stop-limit order, you can control the price at which you enter or exit a trade. This means that you can set a limit price that is higher or lower than the stop price, depending on whether you are buying or selling. This gives investors greater control over the execution price and helps traders avoid getting filled at a price that is unfavorable.
Risk Management: Stop-limit orders are an effective way to manage risk. By setting a stop price, investors can limit their losses if the market moves against them. By setting a limit price, you can ensure that you don't get filled at a price that is too high or too low. This allows investors to control their risk and minimize their losses.
Automation: Once you place a stop-limit order, it will automatically be executed when the stop price is reached. This means that you don't have to monitor the market constantly and can let the order execute on its own. This can be especially useful for traders who cannot monitor the market or want a more passive style of trading.
Flexibility: Stop-limit orders can be used in a variety of trading strategies including day trading, swing trading, and position trading. They can be used to enter or exit a trade, and they can be used for both long and short positions. This flexibility makes stop-limit orders a versatile tool for traders regardless of the style of trading that investor wants to adopt.


  Cons of Stop-Limit Orders  

Though stop-limit orders have a suite of strong uses, there are also drawbacks to the product.



Uncertainty: While a stop-limit order can help you control the price at which you enter or exit a trade, there is no guarantee that the order will be filled. If the market moves quickly and the price never reaches your limit price, your order may not be executed at all. This can be especially problematic in fast-moving markets where prices can fluctuate rapidly.
Price Gaps: Another potential disadvantage of stop-limit orders is that they may not protect you against price gaps. A price gap occurs when the price of a security jumps from one level to another without any trades occurring in between. If this happens and your limit price is not met, you may end up getting filled at a price that is much worse than you anticipated.
Psychological Pressure: Stop-limit orders can also create psychological pressure on traders. When a stop-loss is triggered, it can be tempting to hold on to the position in the hope that the market will reverse and the price will come back up. This can lead to indecision and emotional trading, which can be harmful and detrimental to a broader trading strategy.
Complexity: Stop-limit orders can be more complex to set up and execute than other types of orders. Compared to market orders or limit orders, there are more factors, considerations, and inputs needed when setting the order. Traders need to be familiar with the process of setting a stop price and a limit price, and they need to understand how these prices interact with the market.





Pros

Allows investors to largely control the price in which they enter or exit a trade
Allows investors to ensure an order doesn't get filled at too high or low of a price, mitigating some trading risk
May allows for a more passive, automated style of trading
May be used in a variety of trading situations



Cons

May not execute if the price never meets the limit price
Does not offer protection against price gaps, potentially resulting in worse order fills than expected
May create pressure to hold onto positions
Are more complex to set up compared to other types of orders





   Stop-Limit Order vs. Stop-Loss Order  

Both a stop-limit order and a stop-loss order are useful for traders trying to manage risk. There are key difference between the two that change the situation where each may be best. First, a stop-loss order becomes a market order when the price of the security hits or falls below the stop price. This means that the order will be executed at the best available market price which may be different from the stop price. In contrast, a stop-limit order becomes a limit order when the stop price is reached, and will only be executed at the limit price or better. Therefore, the two have different execution points.



There is also pricing protection differences. A stop-loss order does not offer any price protection beyond the stop price. This means that if the market is experiencing rapid price movements or gaps, the trade may be executed at a price below the stop price. On the other hand, a stop-limit order offers price protection as it specifies a limit price at which the trader is willing to buy or sell. This allows a trader to have greater control over the execution price.



In addition, a stop-loss order is guaranteed to be executed once the stop price is triggered, but the execution price may not be guaranteed. In contrast, a stop-limit order is not guaranteed to be executed, as the order will only be filled if the limit price is met. Therefore, a stop-loss order is better should a trader want to ensure a trade is executed regardless of price.


   Example of a Stop-Limit Order  

For example, assume that Apple Inc. (AAPL) is trading at $155 and that an investor wants to buy the stock once it begins to show some serious upward momentum. The investor has put in a stop-limit order to buy with the stop price at $160 and the limit price at $165. If the price of AAPL moves above the $160 stop price, then the order is activated and turns into a limit order. As long as the order can be filled under $165, which is the limit price, the trade will be filled. If the stock gaps above $165, then the order will not be filled.



Buy stop-limit orders are placed above the market price at the time of the order, while sell stop-limit orders are placed below the market price.




What Is the Difference Between a Stop-Loss Order and A Stop-Limit Order?
A stop-loss order assures execution, while a stop-limit order ensures a fill at the desired price. The decision regarding which type of order to use depends on a number of factors.A stop-loss order will get triggered at the market price once the stop-loss level has been breached. An investor with a long position in a security whose price is plunging swiftly may find that the price at which the stop-loss order got filled is well below the level at which the stop-loss was set. This can be a major risk when a stock gaps down—say, after an earnings report—for a long position; conversely, a gap up can be a risk for a short position.A stop-limit order combines the features of a stop-loss order and a limit order. The investor specifies the limit price, thus ensuring that the stop-limit order will only be filled at the limit price or better. However, as with any limit order, the risk here is that the order may not get filled at all, leaving the investor stuck with a money-losing position.




Do Stop-Limit Orders Work After Hours?
Stop-loss orders will only be triggered during standard market hours, which is generally 9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. EST. They will not get executed during extended-hours sessions or when the market is closed for weekends and holidays.




What Is an Example of a Stop-Limit Order Used for a Short Position?
A short position would necessitate a buy-stop limit order to cap losses. For example, if a trader has a short position in stock ABC at $50 and would like to cap losses at 20% to 25%, they can enter a stop-limit order to buy at a price of $60 and a limit price of $62.50. If the stock trades at a price of $60 to $62.50, then the stop-limit order will be executed, capping the trader’s loss on the short position in the desired 20%–25% range. However, if the stock gaps up—say, to $65—then the stop-limit order will not be executed and the short position will remain open.




How Long Do Stop-Limit Orders Last?
Stop-limit orders can be set as either day orders—in which case they would expire at the end of the current market session—or good-’til-canceled (GTC) orders, which carry over to future trading sessions. Different trading platforms and brokerages have varying expiries for GTC orders, so check the time period when your GTC order will be valid.


   The Bottom Line  

A stop-limit order refers to a conditional order type used by investors and traders to mitigate risk. The order, which combines the features of both a stop and limit order, provides more precision over the desired execution price, helping to lock in profits and limit losses. Investors set a stop-limit order by placing the stop price where they want the order to trigger and a limit price where they would like a trade execution. If the security reaches the specified trigger price, the limit order activates and executes if the price is at or better than the price specified by the investor. Most online brokers offer stop-limit orders with a day-only or GTC expiry.
What Is a Stop-Loss Order?  

A stop-loss order is a type of order used by traders to limit their loss or lock in a profit on an existing position. Traders can control their exposure to risk by placing a stop-loss order.



Stop-loss orders are orders with instructions to close out a position by buying or selling a security at the market when it reaches a certain price known as the stop price.



They are different from stop-limit orders, which are orders to buy or sell at a specific price once the security's price reaches a certain stop price. Stop-limit orders may not get executed whereas a stop-loss order will always be executed (assuming there are buyers and sellers for the security).



For example, a trader may buy a stock and place a stop-loss order with a stop 10% below the stock's purchase price. Should the stock price drop to that 10% level, the stop-loss order is triggered and the stock would be sold at the best available price.



Although most investors associate a stop-loss order with a long position, it can also protect a short position. In such a case, the position gets closed out through an offsetting purchase if the security trades at or above a specific price.





Key Takeaways

A stop-loss order instructs that a stock be bought or sold when it reaches a specified price known as the stop price.Once the stop price is met, the stop order becomes a market order and is executed at the next available opportunity.Stop-loss orders are used to limit loss or lock in profit on existing positions. They can protect investors with either long or short positions.A stop-loss order is different from a stop-limit order, the latter of which must execute at a specific price rather than at the market.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   How Stop-Loss Orders Work  

Traders or investors may choose to use a stop-loss order to limit their losses and protect their profits. By placing a stop-loss order, they can manage risk by exiting a position if the price for their security starts moving in the direction opposite to the position that they've taken.



A stop-loss order to sell is a customer order that instructs a broker to sell a security if the market price for it drops to or below a specified stop price. A stop-loss order to buy sets the stop price above the current market price.


  Advantage Over a Stop-Limit Order  

A stop-loss order becomes a market order to be executed at the best available price if the price of a security reaches the stop price. A stop-limit order also triggers at the stop price. However, the limit order might not be executed because it is an order to execute at a specific (limit) price. Thus, the stop-loss order removes the risk that a position won't be closed out as the stock price continues to fall.


  Potential Disadvantages  

One disadvantage of the stop-loss order concerns price gaps. If a stock price suddenly gaps below (or above) the stop price, the order would trigger. The stock would be sold (or bought) at the next available price even if the stock is trading sharply away from your stop loss level.



Another disadvantage concerns getting stopped out in a choppy market that quickly reverses itself and resumes in the direction that was beneficial to your position.



Investors can create a more flexible stop-loss order by combining it with a trailing stop. A trailing stop is an order whose stop price, rather than being a fixed price, is instead set at a certain percentage or dollar amount below (or above) the current market price. So, for instance, as the price of a security that you own moves up, the stop price moves up with it, allowing you to lock in some profit as you continue to be protected from downside risk.


   Benefits of Stop-Loss Orders  

Stop-loss orders are a smart and easy way to manage the risk of loss on a trade.They can help traders lock in profit.Every investor can make them a part of their investment strategy.They add discipline to an investor's short-term trading efforts.They take emotions out of trading.They eliminate the need to monitor investments on a daily (or hourly) basis.


   Examples of Stop-Loss Orders  

A trader buys 100 shares of XYZ Company for $100 and sets a stop-loss order at $90. The stock declines over the next few weeks and falls below $90. The trader's stop-loss order gets triggered and the position is sold at $89.95 for a minor loss. The market continues trending downward.



A trader buys 500 shares of ABC Corporation for $100 and sets a stop-loss order for $90. After the market closes, the business reports unfavorable earnings results. When the market opens the next day, ABC's stock price gaps down. The trader's stop-loss order is triggered. The order gets executed at a price of $70.00 for a substantial loss. However, the market continues dropping and closes at 49.50. While the stop-loss order couldn't protect the trader as originally intended, it still limited the loss to much less than it could have been.




What's a Stop-Loss Order?
It's an order placed once you've taken a position in a security (on the buy side or sell side) with instructions to close out your position by selling (or buying) the security at the market if the price of the security reaches a specific level.




How Does a Stop-Loss Order Limit Loss?
A stop-loss order limits your exposure to less of a loss than you might otherwise experience by automatically closing out your position if your stock trades to an unfavorable market price level that you designate. If you use a trailing stop with your stop-loss order, that protection can move with your position even as it increases in value. So, a loss could translate to less profit rather than a complete loss.




Do Long-Term Investors Need Stop-Loss Orders?
Probably not. Long-term investors shouldn't be overly concerned with market fluctuations because they're in the market for the long haul and can wait for it to recover from downturns. However, they can and should evaluate market drops to determine if some action is called for. For example, a downturn could provide the opportunity to add to their positions, rather than to exit them.
What Is a Stop Order?  

A stop order is one of the three main order types you will encounter in the market: stop, market, and limit. A stop order is always executed in the direction that the price is moving. For instance, if the market is moving lower, the stop order is set to sell at a pre-set price below the current market price. Alternatively, if the price is moving higher, the stop order will be to buy once the security reaches a pre-set price above the current market price.



There are several types of stop orders that can be employed depending on your position and your overall market strategy. Here's a review of the various types of stop orders and how they function relative to your trading position in the market.





Key Takeaways


Stop-loss orders should be in place whenever you have an open position to limit your potential losses.
Stop-entry orders can be used to enter the market in the direction the market is moving, frequently referred to as breakout trading.
If the market is moving higher, a stop-entry order will make you long; if the market is moving lower, a stop-entry will make you short.
You can move your stop-loss order in the direction of the trade, using a trailing stop-loss to further limit your losses or protect your gains.
You can use a financial or technical price level to place your stop order.



   Types of Stop Orders  

There are three types of stop orders you can use when trading, stop-loss, stop-entry, and trailing stop-loss.


  Stop-Loss Order  

A regular stop-loss order is recommended for any live position. A stop-loss order is just what it means—it stops losses. The stop-loss order will remove you from your position at a pre-set level if the market moves against you. Stop-loss orders are critical when you can't actively keep an eye on the market, and it's recommended to always have a stop-loss order in place for any existing position for protection from sudden market news, data releases, and the like.



For example, let's say you're long (you own it) stock XYZ at $27 and believe that it has the potential to reach $35. However, at price levels below $25, your strategy is invalidated, and you want to get out. You would then place a stop order to sell XYZ at around $25, or slightly lower, to account for a margin of error.


  Stop-Entry Order  

A stop-entry order is used to get into the market in the direction that it's currently moving. For example, let's say you have no position, but you observe that stock XYZ has been moving in a sideways range between $27 and $32, and you believe it will ultimately move higher.



In this case, you could place a stop-entry order above the current range high of $32—say at $32.25 to allow for a margin of error—to get you into the market once the sideways range is broken to the upside. Now that you're long, and if you're a disciplined trader, you'll want to immediately establish a regular stop-loss sell order to limit your losses in case the break higher is a false one.


  Trailing Stop-Loss Order  

Continuing from the scenario above, XYZ has broken above the range top at $32, and your stop has been triggered at $32.28—stop orders use the best available market price—making you long in a rising market. The price keeps increasing and hits your first price objective at $35. You may now want to protect your profits in case the market reverses lower. You can accomplish this with a regular stop loss placed at, say, $34. That means you will lock in around $1.72 on the trade ($34.00 – $32.28 = $1.72) if the market turns around. In this case, you used a stop-loss order to protect your profit instead of limiting your loss.






Some online brokers offer a trailing stop-loss order functionality on their trading platforms. These orders follow the market and automatically change the stop price level according to market movements. You can set a particular price distance the market must reverse for you to be stopped out.



To preserve your profits, you can specify $0.50 for the stock trade, meaning that the market price, currently at $35, must touch $34.50 for your stop-loss order to be triggered. However, if the price continues to move higher, the trailing stop will rise with it, always remaining $0.50 from the highest high the price has reached. So, let's say the price continues to move higher from $35 and reaches $36.75. Your trailing stop will have followed the price increase and will now be $36.25 ($36.75 – $0.50 = $36.25). Trailing stops are a great way to protect profits and stay in a position until the market has shown that it has actually reversed.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Stop Orders  



Advantages

Execution guarantee
Additional control
Losses can be limited



Disadvantages

Short-term fluctuation risk
Slippage





  Advantages  

There are more advantages to using stop orders than disadvantages because they can help you avoid or minimize your losses if the market doesn't act in your favor. This is because you have an execution guarantee, where the order you placed will execute whether you're monitoring prices or not.



This gives you an additional measure of control over when you buy or sell a security—without it, one phone call could distract you for long enough that you could suffer a substantial loss, depending on the market you're trading in.



Because you've placed a stop order, you've taken a precautionary measure that can limit your losses or prevent them entirely.


  Disadvantages  

One of the most significant downfalls to stop orders is that short-term price fluctuations can cause you to lose a position. For instance, if you placed a stop expecting prices to continue rising, but they suddenly began trending down, your position is on the wrong side of the trend.



A stop-loss order's execution may not be at the exact price you specified. For example, say you had a stop-loss entry price of $32.25, but it was executed at $32.28, or $0.03 higher than you specified. That difference of $0.03 is called slippage, which is caused by many factors, such as lack of liquidity, volatility, and price gaps in news or data. Slippage can also occur when a regular stop-loss is executed. Therefore, some slippage should be expected.






Make sure your brokerage supports all of the stop orders you want to use. Not all brokerage firms allow all of them, and some have different policies about using them.


   Stop Order vs. Limit Order  

One of the key differences between a stop and limit order is that a stop order uses the best available market price rather than the specific price you might have placed in the order. Because the best available price is used, a stop order turns into a market order when the stop price is reached. A market order is an order to buy or sell at the best available price, like when you tell your broker to purchase a stock (not when you're trading, just if you're buying a stock)—they buy it at the best price as soon as they can.



A limit order is executed at the price you specified or better, which can slightly reduce the chances of the order executing compared to a stop order. If the stock price never hits your limit, your trade won't execute; a stop order would execute because it uses the best available price.


   Example of a Stop Order  

A common question that traders and investors pose is where they should place their stop-loss order. There are too many variables to give a one-size-fits-all answer, but a rational method falls into two categories: financial and technical.



A financial stop-loss is placed at a point where you are no longer willing to accept further financial loss. For example, let's say you're only willing to risk $5 on a stock that's currently trading at $75. That means you've chosen a financial stop of $5 per share (or $70 as the stop price), regardless of whatever else may be happening in the market.



A technical stop-loss is placed at a significant technical price point, such as the recent range high or low, a Fibonacci retracement level, or a specific moving average, just to name a few. The key factor here is that if you have a market position, you need to have a live stop-loss order to protect your investment/position.




Why Do I Always Need a Stop-Loss Order When I Have an Open Position?
Not every trade is a winner. Every position has the potential to move against you an lose money. A stop-loss order will limit your losses to about the specified level you define. It's important to note that you should create a complete strategy (entry, stop-loss, and take-profit) to manage your position before you enter that position. That way, you avoid the emotional uncertainty that comes with having an open position.




What Should I Do if My Stop-Entry Order Is Filled?
You now have a position in the market, and you need to establish, at the minimum, a stop-loss (S/L) order for that position. You can also add a take-profit (T/P) order. Coupled together, you now have orders bracketing your position. Such orders are typically linked and known as a one-cancels-the-other (OCO) order, meaning if the T/P order is filled, the S/L order will be automatically canceled, and vice versa.




Where Should I Place My Stop-Loss Order?
You can use a financial stop (how much money am I prepared to lose on this position?) or a technical S/L (what significant technical level will need to be breached for your trade scenario to be invalidated?). Not every trade is a winner, so you need to have a strategy in place before you enter a position, knowing where you'll limit your losses and take your profits.




Should I Ever Move My Stop-Loss Order?
You should move your stop-loss order only if it's in the direction of your position. For example, imagine you're long XYZ stock with a stop-loss order $2 below your entry price. If the market cooperates and moves higher, you can raise your S/L to further limit your loss potential or lock in profits.


   The Bottom Line  

Stop orders are a critical tool in a trader's toolbox. Traders and investors should always have a stop-loss in place if they have any open positions. Otherwise, they're trading without any protection, which could be dangerous and costly.



Stop orders can be adjusted in the direction of the trade if the market moves in your favor, but you should never move a stop away from the direction the market is moving. For example, if you're long and the market is moving lower, you should never lower your stop from where you originally placed it. Hopefully, you have compiled a complete trade strategy (entry, stop-loss, and take-profit) before entering the market. This way, your mind and emotions are not in play, just your strategy.
What Is a Stop Payment on a Check?  

A stop payment is a formal request made to a financial institution to cancel a check or payment that has not yet been processed. A stop payment order is issued by the account holder and can only be enacted if the check or payment has not already been processed by the recipient.



Issuing a stop payment order on a check often costs the bank account holder a fee (generally $30 although bank policies differ), which is levied by the institution. There are several reasons that a stop payment order on a check may be requested. For example, the account holder may have sent a check for the wrong amount or may have canceled a purchase after having put the check in the mail. Occasionally, if the stop payment is not requested in time and/or incorrectly, the financial institution will not be able to halt the process.





Key Takeaways

A stop payment is a request to cancel a payment before it has been processed, for example by cancelling a check before it has been deposited.There are many reasons why a stop payment might be requested, including cancellations of goods or services, or human error in writing the wrong amount on a check.Issuing a stop payment order often costs the bank account holder a fee for the service.A stop payment request can expire if the check or payment isn't found by the bank.





How Do I Stop Payment on a Check?

To stop payment on a check, go to a bank branch or contact the bank by phone and speak to a human being, not a recording. Request a Stop Payment Order. Make sure to report the check number, the amount, the recipient's name, and the date on the check. Follow up in writing.This will only work if the check has not yet been cleared by the bank. If it has cleared, you'll need to contact the recipient of the check to seek a resolution.


   How a Stop Payment on a Check Works  

To request a stop payment, an account holder generally provides specific information about a check that is in progress to the bank—e.g., check # 607 for $250 written to John’s Cleaning Agency. In an ideal scenario, the bank would then flag the check and prevent it from clearing the account.



If a bank is unable to locate the check, it will often continue to look for the check for six months, although policies differ among banks. Some banks offer the opportunity to extend or refresh the stop payment, via a verbal or written request.






If the check is never found, the request for stop payment usually expires, and the check could potentially be paid.


   Special Considerations  

In addition to issuing individual stop payments, additional measures for securing checks and personal finance information more generally are becoming mainstream. This protection is important if an account holder is concerned about error or fraud.



One method that has been updated over time is the addition of a padlock feature on personal checks. The Washington-D.C.-based Check Payment Systems Association (formerly Financial Stationers Association) created the padlock feature as check fraud grew pre-2000. The padlock feature completed a triumvirate of features, incorporated into a check, to add complexity and make it more challenging for fraudsters to reproduce it.



Online banking, which is now used by all major banks like Bank of America, TD Bank, Citibank, Chase Bank, is designed to improve the efficiency of depositing, transferring, and withdrawing funds, along with balance-checking and other, relatively simple personal finance tasks. With individual financial information now stored online—the potential for secure encryption is high—along with the ability of cyber-criminals to steal data. Despite such threats, many have chosen to bank fully online. In this way, issuing stop payments, among other tasks, become more efficient.
What Is a Store Of Value?  

A store of value is an asset, commodity, or currency that maintains its value without depreciating. 





Key Takeaways

A store of value is an asset that maintains its value, rather than depreciating. Gold and other precious metals are good stores of value because their shelf lives are essentially perpetual.A nation's currency must be a reasonable store of value for its economy to function smoothly.


   Understanding a Store Of Value  

A store of value is essentially an asset, commodity, or currency that can be saved, retrieved, and exchanged in the future without deteriorating in value. In other words, to enter this category, the item acquired should, over time, either be worth the same or more. 



Gold and other metals are stores of value, as their shelf lives are essentially perpetual. For investors, interest-bearing assets such as U.S. Treasury bonds (T-bonds) qualify, too, because they retain their value while generating income.



Milk, on the other hand, is a poor store of value because it will decay and become worthless.


   Store Of Value Examples  
  Currency  

A reasonably stable currency is essential to a healthy economy. A nation's money must be a credible store of value in order for its citizens to engage in labor and trade, save money, and spend it. A monetary unit that serves poorly as a store of value destroys all incentive to save or even earn, and reduces the ability to trade.


  Precious Metals  

Many economies throughout history have used gold, silver, and other precious metals as currencies because of their ability to store value, their relative ease of transport, and the ease of exchanging them for different denominations. In fact, the United States was on a gold standard, meaning that dollars were redeemable for a specific weight of gold, up until 1971.



President Richard Nixon ended dollar convertibility to give the Federal Reserve (Fed) greater power to influence the rates of employment and inflation, among other factors. Since then, the U.S. has used a fiat currency, which a government declares as legal tender but is not tied to a commodity of value.






Any physical asset may be considered a store of value under the right circumstances or when a base level of demand is believed to exist.


   Special Considerations  

What comprises a store of value can be markedly different among countries and cultures. In most of the world's advanced economies, the local currency can be counted on as a store of value in all but the worst-case scenarios.



Stable currencies, such as the U.S. dollar, the Japanese yen, the Swiss franc, and the Singaporean dollar enhance their home economies greatly. They are resistant, although not immune, to hyperinflation.



In those instances, other stores of value, such as gold, silver, real estate, and fine art, have proved their worth over time. The price of gold, in particular, will often skyrocket during times of national peril or when a financial shock hits the broad markets, earning it a reputation as the ultimate safe haven.



While the relative value of such stores of value will fluctuate over time, they can be counted on to retain some value in almost any scenario. This is especially true if there is a finite supply of the store of value.
What Is a Straddle?  

A straddle is a neutral options strategy that involves simultaneously buying both a put option and a call option for the underlying security with the same strike price and the same expiration date.



A trader will profit from a long straddle when the price of the security rises or falls from the strike price by an amount more than the total cost of the premium paid. The profit potential is virtually unlimited, so long as the price of the underlying security moves very sharply.





Key Takeaways

A straddle is an options strategy involving the purchase of both a put and call option.Both options are purchased for the same expiration date and strike price on the same underlying securities.The strategy is profitable only when the stock either rises or falls from the strike price by more than the total premium paid.A straddle implies what the expected volatility and trading range of a security may be by the expiration date.This strategy is most effective when considering heavily volatile investments; without strong price movement, the premiums paid on multiple options may easily outweigh any potential profit.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   Understanding Straddles  

More broadly, straddle strategies in finance refer to two separate transactions which both involve the same underlying security, with the two corresponding transactions offsetting one another. Investors tend to employ a straddle when they anticipate a significant move in a stock's price but are unsure about whether the price will move up or down.












Investopedia / Julie Bang



A straddle can give a trader two significant clues about what the options market thinks about a stock. First is the volatility the market is expecting from the security. Second is the expected trading range of the stock by the expiration date.






   How to Create a Straddle  

To determine the cost of creating a straddle, one must add the price of the put and the call together. For example, if a trader believes that a stock may rise or fall from its current price of $55 following the release of its latest earnings report on March 1, they could create a straddle. The trader would look to purchase one put and one call at the $55 strike with an expiration date of March 15. To determine the cost of creating the straddle, the trader would add the price of one March 15 $55 call and one March 15 $55 put. If both the calls and the puts trade for $2.50 each, the total outlay or premium paid would be $5.00 for the two contracts.



The premium paid suggests that the stock would need to rise or fall by 9% from the $55 strike price to earn a profit by March 15. The amount the stock is expected to rise or fall is a measure of the future expected volatility of the stock. To determine how much the stock needs to rise or fall, divide the premium paid by the strike price, which is $5 divided by $55, or 9%.


  Discovering the Predicted Trading Range  

Option prices imply a predicted trading range. To determine the expected trading range of a stock, one could add or subtract the price of the straddle to or from the price of the stock. In this case, the $5 premium could be added to $55 to predict a trading range of $50 to $60. 



If the stock traded within the zone of $50 to $60, the trader would lose some of their money but not necessarily all of it. At the time of expiration, it is only possible to earn a profit if the stock rises or falls outside of the $50 to $60 zone.


  Earning a Profit  

If the stock fell to $48, the calls would be worth $0, while the puts would be worth $7 at expiration. That would deliver a profit of $2 to the trader. However, if the stock went to $57, the calls would be worth $2, and the puts would be worth zero, giving the trader a loss of $3. The worst-case scenario is when the stock price stays at or near the strike price.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Straddle Positions  
  Pros of Straddle Positions  

Straddle options are entered into for the potential income to both the upside or downside. Consider a stock trading at $300. You pay $10 premiums for call and put options at a strike price of $300. If the equity swings to the upside, you may capitalize on the call. If the equity swings to the downside, you may capitalize on the put. In either case, the straddle option may yield a profit whether the stock price rises or falls.



Straddle strategies are often used leading up to major company events such as quarterly reports. When investors aren’t sure how news may break, they may elect to opt into offsetting positions to mitigate risk. This allows traders to set up positions in advance of major swings to the upside or downside. 


  Cons of Straddle Positions  

For a straddle position to be profitable, the movement of the equity’s price is greater than the premium(s) paid. In the example above, you paid $20 in premiums ($10 for the call, $10 for the put). If the stock’s price only moves from $300 to $315, your net position yields you at a loss. Straddle positions often only result in profit when there are material, large swings in equity prices. 



Another downside is the guaranteed loss regarding premiums. Depending on which way the stock price breaks, one option is guaranteed to not be used. This may be especially true for equities that have little to no price movement, yielding both options as unusable or unprofitable. This “loss” is incurred in addition to potentially higher transacting costs due to opening more positions compared to a one-sided trade.



Because straddle positions are most suitable for periods of heavy volatility, they can’t be used during all market conditions. Straddle positions are not successful during stable market periods. In addition, straddle positions work better for certain investments. Not all investment opportunities (especially those with a low beta) may benefit from this position. 




Straddle Strategy Positions

Pros

The strategy has potential to earn income regardless of whether the underlying security increases or decreases in price.
The strategy may be useful when major news are anticipated but it is uncertain the direction markets will take events.
Investors may mitigate potential losses or downside by hedging their investment (as opposed to entering just a single direction trade).



Cons

The underlying security must be volatile; without substantial price movement, straddle positions are often unprofitable.
The investor is certain to purchase an option and pay a premium for a contract it will never execute.
The strategy is not suitable in all market conditions or for all types of securities (i.e. it relies on volatility).





   Real-World Example of a Straddle  

On Oct. 18, 2018, activity in the options market was implying that the stock price for AMD, an American computer chip manufacturer, could rise or fall 20% from the $26 strike price for expiration on Nov. 16, because it cost $5.10 to buy one put and call. It placed the stock in a trading range of $20.90 to $31.15. A week later, the company reported results and shares plunged from $22.70 to $19.27 on Oct. 25. In this case, the trader would have earned a profit because the stock fell outside of the range, exceeding the premium cost of buying the puts and calls.




What Is a Long Straddle?
A long straddle is an options strategy that an investor makes when they anticipate a particular stock will soon be undergoing volatility. The investor believes the stock will make a significant move outside the trading range but is uncertain whether the stock price will head higher or lower.To execute a long straddle, the investor simultaneously buys an at-the-money call and an at-the-money put with the same expiration date and the same strike price. In many long straddle scenarios, the investor believes that an upcoming news event (such as an earnings report or acquisition announcement) will push the underlying stock from low volatility to high volatility. The objective of the investor is to profit from a large move in price. A small price movement will generally not be enough for an investor to make a profit from a long straddle. 




How Do You Earn a Profit in a Straddle?
To determine how much an underlying security must rise or fall in order to earn a profit on a straddle, divide the total premium cost by the strike price. For example, if the total premium cost was $10 and the strike price was $100, it would be calculated as $10 divided by $100, or 10%. In order to make a profit, the security must rise or fall more than 10% from the $100 strike price. 




What Is an Example of a Straddle?
Consider a trader who expects a company’s shares to experience sharp price fluctuations following an interest rate announcement on Jan. 15. Currently, the stock’s price is $100. The investor creates a straddle by purchasing both a $5 put option and a $5 call option at a $100 strike price which expires on Jan. 30. The net option premium for this straddle is $10. The trader would realize a profit if the price of the underlying security was above $110 (which is the strike price plus the net option premium) or below $90 (which is the strike price minus the net option premium) at the time of expiration.




Can You Lose Money on a Straddle?
Yes. If an equity's price does not move larger than the comparative premiums paid on the options, a trader faces the risk of losing money. For this reason, straddle strategies are often entered into in consideration of more volatile investments.


   The Bottom Line  

If an investor buys both a call and a put for the same strike price on the same expiration date, they've entered into a straddle position. This strategy allows an investor to profit on large price changes, regardless of the direction of the change. Should the underlying security's price remain fairly stable, an investor will likely lose money regarding the premiums paid on the worthless options. However, an investor can reap profit on large increases or decreases to the equity price.
What Is Straight Line Basis?  

Straight line basis is a method of calculating depreciation and amortization. Also known as straight line depreciation, it is the simplest way to work out the loss of value of an asset over time.



Straight line basis is calculated by dividing the difference between an asset's cost and its expected salvage value by the number of years it is expected to be used.





Key Takeaways

Straight line basis is a method of calculating depreciation and amortization, the process of expensing an asset over a longer period of time than when it was purchased.It is calculated by dividing the difference between an asset's cost and its expected salvage value by the number of years it is expected to be used.Straight line basis is popular because it is easy to calculate and understand, although it also has several drawbacks.Alternatives often involve accelerating depreciation schedules.


   Understanding Straight Line Basis  

In accounting, there are many different conventions that are designed to match sales and expenses to the period in which they are incurred. One convention that companies embrace is referred to as depreciation and amortization.



Companies use depreciation for physical assets, and amortization for intangible assets such as patents and software. Both conventions are used to expense an asset over a longer period of time, not just in the period it was purchased. In other words, companies can stretch the cost of assets over many different time frames, which lets them benefit from the asset without deducting the full cost from net income (NI).


   Calculating Straight Line Basis  

The challenge is determining how much to expense. One method accountants use to determine this amount is the straight line basis method.



To calculate straight line basis, take the purchase price of an asset and then subtract the salvage value, its estimated sell-on value when it is no longer expected to be needed. Then divide the resulting figure by the total number of years the asset is expected to be useful, referred to as the useful life in accounting jargon.



Straight Line Basis = (Purchase Price of Asset - Salvage Value) / Estimated Useful Life of Asset


   Example of Straight Line Basis  

Assume that Company A buys a piece of equipment for $10,500. The equipment has an expected life of 10 years and a salvage value of $500. To calculate straight line depreciation, the accountant divides the difference between the salvage value and the cost of the equipment—also referred to as the depreciable base or asset cost—by the expected life of the equipment.



The straight line depreciation for this piece of equipment is ($10,500 - $500) / 10 = $1,000. This means that instead of writing off the full cost of the equipment in the current period, the company only needs to expense $1,000. The company will continue to expense $1,000 to a contra account, referred to as accumulated depreciation, until $500 is left on the books as the value of the equipment.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Straight Line Basis  

Accountants like the straight line method because it is easy to use, renders fewer errors over the life of the asset, and expenses the same amount every accounting period. Unlike more complex methodologies, such as double declining balance, straight line is simple and uses just three different variables to calculate the amount of depreciation each accounting period.



However, the simplicity of straight line basis is also one of its biggest drawbacks. One of the most obvious pitfalls of using this method is that the useful life calculation is based on guesswork. For example, there is always a risk that technological advancements could potentially render the asset obsolete earlier than expected. Moreover, the straight line basis does not factor in the accelerated loss of an asset’s value in the short-term, nor the likelihood that it will cost more to maintain as it gets older.




How Do You Calculate Straight Line Depreciation?
To calculate depreciation using a straight line basis, simply divide net price (purchase price less the salvage price) by the number of useful years of life the asset has.




When Should One Use Straight Line Deprecation?
Straight line is the most straightforward and easiest method for calculating depreciation. It is most useful when an asset's value decreases steadily over time at around the same rate.




What Are Realistic Assumptions in the Straight-Line Method of Depreciation?
While the purchase price of an asset is known, one must make assumptions regarding the salvage value and useful life. These numbers can be arrived at in several ways, but getting them wrong could be costly. Also, a straight line basis assumes that an asset's value declines at a steady and unchanging rate. This may not be true for all assets, in which case a different method should be used.




What Is Straight Line Amortization?
Straight line amortization works just like its depreciation counterpart, but instead of having the value of a physical asset decline, amortization deals with intangible assets such as intellectual property or financial assets.
What Is Straight-Through Processing (STP)?  

Straight-through processing is an automated process done purely through electronic transfers with no manual intervention involved. Its popular uses are in payment processing as well as the processing of securities trades. Any company involved with straight-through processing will need to have the necessary systems and technical networking in place to facilitate STP efficiency.





Key Takeaways

Straight-through processing is an automated process done purely through electronic transfers with no manual intervention involved.Generally, straight-through processing is most well-known in the areas of payments and securities trading, though it can be implemented in a variety of technical scenarios.Computers, mainframes, electronic exchanges, and the internet are all improving the opportunities for STP processing.


   Understanding STP  

Generally, straight-through processing is most well-known in the areas of payments and securities trading. However, in general it is a methodology that could be implemented in a variety of technical scenarios. In all areas of STP, the technology for STP is constantly evolving. In payments, cryptocurrencies and fintech providers have introduced much faster types of straight-through processing, particularly as alternatives to banks.


   Payments  

Straight-through processing is an innovation that has developed alongside the integration of computers and computer programming. In the early 1970s, Automated Clearing Houses (ACH networks) began development.﻿﻿ The Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT) was also founded around this time.﻿﻿ SWIFT and ACH significantly upgraded banking payment transfers from a previous telegraphic system, which involved a single operator typing telegraphic transfer orders through Morse code. ACH was first introduced in the United States by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, mostly as a solution for payroll direct deposits.﻿﻿






The 1970s brought about the first efforts for STP in bank payments.



Since the 1970s ACH and SWIFT networking has grown, though these two systems form the main framework for most all domestic and global payment transfers. Any financial service provider who wants to be in the payment processing business will need to link up with a payment processing network for facilitating electronic STP.



In general, most all electronic payment processing is considered STP. However, advanced coding within payment networks can be added to flag or stop suspicious transactions for the alerting of security specialists.



ACH and SWIFT were groundbreaking introductions that changed the capabilities for banks and also created a vast array of opportunities for financial technology platforms. STP itself has increased the efficiency and speed of payments domestically and globally. STP streamlines the use of payment and routing information so that the instructions don't need to be manually entered.



How Straight-Through Processing Differs from Traditional Payments



The traditional method of sending money involved multiple departments both on the initiation and receiving end of the transfer that could take days to complete. Payment would first be initiated via the phone or a software program. The payment settlement details would have to be confirmed by a person at both companies via the phone, email, or fax. The settlement details were then manually input into a payment system and later confirmed either by a supervisor to ensure accuracy before releasing the payment. Before ACH and SWIFT, payment transactions were then sent via telegraphic message using a special code. The process could take anywhere between several hours to a few days to even initiate, depending on the details involved.



International payments to emerging economies, for example, must often meet stringent criteria with supporting documents that meet local regulatory requirements and laws before a transfer can be completed. As a result, several people may have been involved both on the initiating and receiving end of the payment as well as employees from any intermediary banks involved. Telegraphic transfers had a higher propensity for errors, delays, and increased costs. Also, the lack of automation caused instability as well as lack of exact processing expectations, which created problems for suppliers and customers trying to make timely business payments.



As you can imagine, STP was a big help for businesses. It could streamline the accounting process for companies, particularly in accounts payable and accounts receivable. It helped in the tracking and collection efficiency of money to and from business partners and customers. It reduced the number of errors involved with accounting functions and improved working capital, cash flow efficiency. It also aided in improved business analytics, since companies can track client behaviors and spending patterns as well as costly delays or errors by the customers or the system.



E-Commerce



STP allows businesses to authenticate their customers on the web, sell them a product, initiate a payment, and set delivery of the product, all with just a few clicks. E-commerce sellers must have a transaction solution, which may be multi-faceted. E-commerce platforms can partner with brand providers like Visa, Mastercard, American Express, or Discover. They may also partner with a fintech like PayPal. The offering of payment plans and installment credit is also becoming more popular through fintechs like Affirm. Sales efforts can be enhanced since online systems have the potential to offer products and services to a customer automatically through a single point of sale with a multitude of payment choices all done online.



One example of a leading company that has implemented straight-through processing is Amazon.com. The online retailer has remained focused throughout its existence on removing any obstacles to customers purchasing products on its website. Amazon has excelled in making use of automation technology and sophisticated algorithms to serve its customers and drive revenue.



Cryptocurrencies



Cryptocurrencies are also an up and coming form of STP for transactions. Cryptocurrencies are electronic transfers that don’t require manual intervention. The greatest benefit of cryptocurrencies is that they remove the need for a holding company intermediary. Crypto funds can be transferred from one person to another directly on a unique network.



Example of How Straight-Through Processing Saves Money



Let's say Bank ABC processes around 200 funds transfers per day and currently does not have a straight-through processing system in place. Through analysis, the bank has calculated that for every 200 payments processed, 20 payments are processed incorrectly or 10% of the payments. The bank is charged $20 for each payment that is not processed properly. The fee is assessed by the receiving bank or correspondent bank since they have to correct the payment instructions or perform manual entries to fix the error.



Here are the numbers:



200 payments are processed per day or 4,000 payments per monthA 10% error rate equates to 20 payments per day or 400 errors per monthAt a $20 fee per error, Bank ABC is charged $400 per day or $8,000 per month



After implementing a STP system, the payment errors decreased to 1% per 200 payments



At a 1% error rate, only two payments per day or forty payments per month were processed incorrectlyAt a $20 fee per error, Bank ABC reduced the cost of errors to $40 per day or $800 per month



With a STP system, accurate settlement and routing information can be saved in the system avoiding manual entry of payment details and costly errors for the bank and customers.


   STP in Securities Trading  

In the modern day, nearly all secondary market securities trading involves electronic processing. There can be some human intervention on the front end in placing trades but for the most part electronic systems do all the work. This is where STP comes in. Any transaction in the secondary market requires a trade settlement process, which is associated with STP. This means millions of STP transactions per day for stocks, bonds, mutual funds, exchange-traded funds, pink sheet trades, etc. All financial service companies have some form of back office staffing responsible for the management of trade settlements done through STP.





1971

The Nasdaq was launched as the first electronic stock exchange.



Like at a bank, electronic trade transactions are monitored by back office employees. Trades may be flagged or stopped due to coded security measures, which then may require the intervention of a human. For the most part, securities trades are completed, including the exchange of an actual certificate, within two days. In 2017, the Securities and Exchange Commission mandated a T+2 settlement for securities trades.﻿﻿



In securities trading, the STP process refers to the full T+2 cycle. With STP the entire process from start to finish can be done electronically without human intervention. STP for securities trading requires the need for securities codes as well as the use of brokerage accounting codes, similar to the coding needed for bank and routing numbers. Electronic systems operate through code identifiers, which facilitate a full electronic processing cycle.


   Other Innovations  

Computers, mainframes, electronic exchanges, and the internet are all improving the opportunities for STP processing and innovation. Technology is also helping to improve the actual processing time of a full STP cycle. Some areas that are benefiting from improved technological advances for STP include underwriting and payrolls.



Creditors have the opportunity to fully automate underwriting using STP. To do this, coding is used to set lending parameters, authentications, and approvals. This can make credit extension nearly instantaneous upon submission of an online application.



Payroll systems also benefit from STP. Electronic time tracking logs allow for an easy flow through of authorization and approval, which can then be followed by direct deposit. In the payrolls business, many fintechs are partnering with businesses to provide workers with options for daily direct deposit payments, which helps solve cash flow challenges.
What Is a Strangle?  

A strangle is an options strategy in which the investor holds a position in both a call and a put option with different strike prices, but with the same expiration date and underlying asset. A strangle is a good strategy if you think the underlying security will experience a large price movement in the near future but are unsure of the direction. However, it is profitable mainly if the asset does swing sharply in price.



A strangle is similar to a straddle but uses options at different strike prices, while a straddle uses a call and put at the same strike price.





Key Takeaways

A strangle is a popular options strategy that involves holding both a call and a put on the same underlying asset.A strangle covers investors who think an asset will move dramatically but are unsure of the direction.A strangle is profitable only if the underlying asset does swing sharply in price.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   How Does a Strangle Work?  

Strangles come in two directions:



In a long strangle—the more common strategy—the investor simultaneously buys an out-of-the-money call and an out-of-the-money put option. The call option's strike price is higher than the underlying asset's current market price, while the put has a strike price that is lower than the asset's market price. This strategy has large profit potential since the call option has theoretically unlimited upside if the underlying asset rises in price, while the put option can profit if the underlying asset falls. The risk on the trade is limited to the premium paid for the two options.
An investor doing a short strangle simultaneously sells an out-of-the-money put and an out-of-the-money call. This approach is a neutral strategy with limited profit potential. A short strangle profits when the price of the underlying stock trades in a narrow range between the breakeven points. The maximum profit is equivalent to the net premium received for writing the two options, less trading costs.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019


   Strangle vs. Straddle  

Strangles and straddles are similar options strategies that allow investors to profit from large moves to the upside or downside. However, a long straddle involves simultaneously buying at the money call and put options—where the strike price is identical to the underlying asset's market price—rather than out-of-the-money options.



A short straddle is similar to a short strangle, with limited profit potential that is equivalent to the premium collected from writing the at the money call and put options.



With the straddle, the investor profits when the price of the security rises or falls from the strike price just by an amount more than the total cost of the premium. So it doesn't require as large a price jump. Buying a strangle is generally less expensive than a straddle—but it carries greater risk because the underlying asset needs to make a bigger move to generate a profit.





Pros

Benefits from asset's price move in either direction
Cheaper than other options strategies, like straddles
Unlimited profit potential



Cons

Requires big change in asset's price
May carry more risk than other strategies





   Real-World Example of a Strangle  

To illustrate, let's say that Starbucks (SBUX) is currently trading at US$50 per share. To employ the strangle option strategy, a trader enters into two long option positions, one call and one put. The call has a strike of $52, and the premium is $3, for a total cost of $300 ($3 x 100 shares). The put option has a strike price of $48, and the premium is $2.85, for a total cost of $285 ($2.85 x 100 shares). Both options have the same expiration date.



If the price of the stock stays between $48 and $52 over the life of the option, the loss to the trader will be $585, which is the total cost of the two option contracts ($300 + $285).



However, let's say Starbucks' stock experiences some volatility. If the price of the shares ends up at $38, the call option will expire worthlessly, with the $300 premium paid for that option lost. However, the put option has gained value, expiring at $1,000 and producing a net profit of $715 ($1,000 less the initial option cost of $285) for that option. Therefore, the total gain to the trader is $415 ($715 profit - $300 loss).



If the price rises to $57, the put option expires worthless and loses the premium paid for it of $285. The call option brings in a profit of $200 ($500 value - $300 cost). When the loss from the put option is factored in, the trade incurs a loss of $85 ($200 profit - $285) because the price move wasn't large enough to compensate for the cost of the options.



The operative concept is the move being big enough. If Starbucks had risen $12 in price, to $62 per share, the total gain would have again been $415 ($1000 value - $300 for call option premium - $285 for an expired put option).




How Do You Calculate the Breakeven of a Strangle?
A long strangle can profit from the underlying moving either up or down. There are, therefore, two breakeven points. These are calculated as the cost of the strangle plus the call strike and the cost of the strangle minus the put strike.




How Can You Lose Money on a Long Strangle?
If you are long a strangle and the underlying does not move past the strikes involved, both options will expire worthless and you will lose what you paid for the strategy.




Which Is Riskier: A Straddle or a Strangle?
Straddles and strangles are similar, except that a straddle involves a call and put at the same strike price and strangle at different strike prices. Because of this, there is greater risk/reward associated with a straddle, while a strangle is a less-risky strategy. The risk/reward for a strangle decreases as the distance between the two strikes grows larger.
What Is a Strategic Alliance?  

A strategic alliance is an arrangement between two companies to undertake a mutually beneficial project while each retains its independence. The agreement is less complex and less binding than a joint venture, in which two businesses pool resources to create a separate business entity.



A company may enter into a strategic alliance to expand into a new market, improve its product line, or develop an edge over a competitor. The arrangement allows two businesses to work toward a common goal that will benefit both. The relationship may be short-term or long-term.





Key Takeaways

A strategic alliance is an arrangement between two companies that have decided to share resources to undertake a specific, mutually beneficial project.A strategic alliance agreement could help a company develop a more effective process.Strategic alliances allow two organizations, individuals or other entities to work toward common or correlating goals.Strategic alliances diversify revenue streams, grant access to potentially difficult-to-obtain resources, and may improve a company's public image.Strategic alliances may also cause companies to expend resources resolving conflict, not yield results as expected, or negatively impact a company's public image.












Investopedia / Crea Taylor


   Understanding Strategic Alliances  

At the heart of strategic alliances lies companies striving to be better but may not have the resources to embark on certain endeavors. Instead of single-handedly attempting to build out market opportunities, companies can seek out existing resources to leverage personal growth.



Consider the massive clientele base of Uber. While Uber may have an interest in making the ridership experience as strong as possible, it may not be feasible for the company to single-handedly build out their own repository of music with technological capabilities to be played on demand. For this reason, Uber turned to Spotify to enter into a strategic alliance.



On the other hand, Spotify can boast of a strong technological product. However, it may seek opportunities to get in front of a wider consumer audience (exactly what Uber has to offer). By forming a strategic alliance in where Uber provides the consumers and Spotify offers the technology, the two companies came together to create a market opportunity that neither entity could have achieved on their own.






Though less formal than other types of agreements, a strategic alliance is often still bound with a contractual obligation that legally binds the actions of each alliance member.


   Types of Strategic Alliances  

There are three primary forms of strategic alliances. These three types of strategic alliances vary in the degree of financial investment each company makes into the agreed-upon joint effort.


  Joint Venture  

A joint venture occurs when two companies agree to come together to create an entirely new, separate company that each of the existing companies become a parent to.



In 2012, Microsoft and General Electric Healthcare signed a joint agreement to create a new third company called Caradigm. Caradigm was created to develop and market an open healthcare intelligence platform. The idea behind the joint venture was Microsoft had the technical capability of making such a platform work, while GE's healthcare IT division had the expertise on the healthcare side.


  Equity Strategic Alliance  

An equity strategic alliance may have similar outcome goals as a joint venture; however, it is funded differently in that one company makes an equity investment into another.



In 2010, Panasonic invested $30 million into Tesla. The investment was intended to help build a stronger alliance between the two companies and to more rapidly advance the electric vehicle market expansion. As one of the world's leading battery cell manufacturers, Panasonic's skillset blended strongly with Tesla's ambition of incorporating proprietary packing using cells from multiple battery suppliers.


  Non-Equity Strategic Alliance  

A non-equity strategic alliance forms when two entities realize mutual benefit exists and no equity transfusion is necessary. As discussed below regarding Barnes & Noble and Starbucks, each member of the alliance simply brings their resources to the alliance for the other party to capitalize upon. A more simple contractual obligation is agreed upon for the two entities to pool resources and capabilities together.


   How Do Strategic Alliances Create Value?  

There's many reasons why a company may choose to enter into a strategic alliance. These reasons may include but are not limited to:



Improving short-term finances. Companies wanting to make immediate financial impacts may find it easiest to leverage another company's resources to improve its short-term position in the market.
Eliminating barriers to entry. Companies may not have the capital on hand to enter certain markets. Instead, they can use companies that have already made those investments to gain access cheaper and faster.
Gaining better business insights. Companies may have no idea how a certain business model may perform. Instead of having to build out an entire model and self-fund an experiment, companies can leverage strategic alliances to "test run" how certain situations may go and use that information for future decision-making.
Sharing financial risk. Should a business venture fail, both parties in a strategic alliance are likely to contribute to paying for those losses. Instead of single-handedly being responsible for the failure, both parties may receive assistance from the other as part of the alliance agreement.
Innovating beyond current capabilities. In the Panasonic/Tesla alliance mentioned above, that partnership created a cutting-edge, innovative agreement that put some of the smartest experts for electric vehicles batteries on the same team.






Strategic alliances often form between companies with varying business or product cycles. For example, companies with short cycles may seek companies that have made long-term investments to aid in the rapid development of a product that would otherwise require more time.


   How to Find a Strategic Alliance  

Forming a strategic alliance requires creativity, forward-thinking, and savvy business sense. Though many strategic alliances are not the same, each is rooting in common steps outlined below.



Brainstorm Potential Partners. Often, strategic alliances exist between companies in different industries. Consider other companies that may have a need for your services or have a weakness where your company has a strength. On the other hand, consider the weaknesses of your own company and what types of entities can bring you resources to help fill your gap.
Outline Alliance Proposals. Strategic alliances must make sense for both parties; otherwise, one party may not agree to the alliance if they feel it does not benefit them. Therefore, you can find a strategic alliance by devising financial budgets and strategies. Then, propose these plans to companies to gauge their interest. Companies are more likely to find a strategic alliance when the other company is receptive to an idea that has a demonstrated plan of benefitting both sides.
Determine Goals. All sides of a strategic partnership should provide input on what the revenue, profit, and operational strategy will be for the alliance. These goals should be well-documented and include language around what should happen if one party fails to comply with the alliance agreement.
Devise the Plan. Once all parties are onboard to form a strategic alliance, the formal plan is presented. This often results in a series of legal documents outlining the contract between the two entities. This plan also acts as the roadmap for decision-making in the future as the newly formed alliance moved forwards.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Strategic Alliance  
  Pros of a Strategic Alliance  

A strategic alliance allows a company to embark on opportunities it may otherwise not have been able to embark upon. This includes earning new clients, engaging in different markets, or selling different products. Each of these avenues has the potential to increase a company's revenue and profitability.



Strategic alliances are also a way to diversify a company's revenue stream and generate different opportunities to mitigate company-wide financial risk. Risk is also mitigated with the help of the alliance members as each entity may have resources that can be used to solve unique challenges or navigate unfamiliar business scenarios.



Last, strategic alliances allow a company to operate differently than it normally would. This means using resources it doesn't have. This might be physical goods, access to markets, or labor with specific expertise. This may also mean the company can leverage the market presence of another firm to more positively gain public perception about their own company. Entering into an alliance with a company with a strong public reputation helps create brand trust and recognition of your own entity.


  Cons of a Strategic Alliance  

A strategic alliance is most likely to succeed if there is strong communication. This means both parties must continually expend resources to manage the alliance to ensure both sides are in agreement. Should the transmission of information or strategy fail, it will be more difficult for the alliance to succeed.



Though strategic alliances may seem fair and romantic, they are often not equally balanced. One company will almost always naturally benefit more than the other, and there may not be a simple solution to balance the trade. There may also develop an unnatural reliance on one side or the other in terms of resources consumed or expertise relied upon.



Just like how a strategic alliance can help boost a company's public image, the wrongdoing of an alliance company may do harm. One company's reputation may rely on the other, though they have no control over how the other company handles itself in public. Similar difficulty may exist if there are conflicts between the alliance members; should there be strategic disagreements, resources may be wasted on resolving interpersonal conflicts that would not have existed without the alliance.




Strategic Alliances

Pros

May result in gaining customers, especially ones in unfamiliar markets
May generate additional revenue and increase profitability
May diversify a company's revenue stream
May reduce operational risk of a company due to the addition of unique assets
May positively influence the brand and perception of the company



Cons

May require more work in collaborating and communicating with larger teams
May result in one side getting a better deal than the other (even if this wasn't what was planned)
May result in conflict should the alliance members disagree on longer-term strategy
May negatively influence the brand and perception of the company





   Examples of Strategic Alliances  

The deal between Starbucks and Barnes & Noble is a classic example of a strategic alliance. Starbucks brews the coffee. Barnes & Noble stocks the books. Both companies do what they do best while sharing the costs of space to the benefit of both companies.



Strategic alliances can come in many sizes and forms:



An oil and natural gas company might form a strategic alliance with a research laboratory to develop more commercially viable recovery processes.A clothing retailer might form a strategic alliance with a single manufacturer to ensure consistent quality and sizing.A website could form a strategic alliance with an analytics company to improve its marketing efforts.




Why Are Strategic Alliances Important?
Strategic alliances are important because it enables a company to further benefit in areas it would not because of its personal lack of resources. Whether it is forming an alliance to gain entry into a market, labor from skilled workers, or resources from limited sources, successful companies work with other companies. This is important as it allows a company to personally benefit by leveraging the assets of another company.




What Is the Difference Between a Partnership and a Strategic Alliance?
An alliance is a collaboration between two companies in which each individual company is expected to profit or benefit from the agreement. A partnership is a more formal type of agreement in which partners merge to create a single, shared economic interest.




What Is the Most Important Factor in a Strategic Alliance?
A strategic alliance is a relationship between two entities. For this reason, the most important factor in the alliance is the trust and collaboration between the two teams. There must be a mutual commitment to joint success for strategic alliances to be successful, and the alliance must be guided by clear objectives, strategic, and conversations to make sure both sides are continually on the same page.


   The Bottom Line  

A strategic alliance is an agreement between two parties for the mutual benefit of both. Each side often provides some sort of resource it allows the other party to use; by collaborating with another entity, both parties are poised to benefit in some way.
What Is Strategic Financial Management?  

Strategic financial management means not only managing a company's finances but managing them with the intention to succeed—that is, to attain the company's long-term goals and objectives and maximize shareholder value over time.





Key Takeaways

Strategic financial management is about creating profits for the business over the long run.It seeks to maximize return on investment for stakeholders.This differs from tactical management, which looks to seize near-term opportunities.A financial plan is strategic and focuses on long-term gain. Strategic financial planning varies by company, industry, and sector.


   Understanding Strategic Financial Management  

Strategic financial management is about creating profit for the business and ensuring an acceptable return on investment (ROI). Financial management is accomplished through business financial plans, setting up financial controls, and financial decision-making.



Before a company can manage itself strategically, it first needs to define its objectives precisely, identify and quantify its available and potential resources, and devise a specific plan to use its finances and other capital resources toward achieving its goals.



Strategic management also involves understanding and properly controlling, allocating, and obtaining a company's assets and liabilities, including monitoring operational financing items like expenditures, revenues, accounts receivable and payable, cash flow, and profitability.



Strategic financial management encompasses furthermore involves continuous evaluating, planning, and adjusting to keep the company focused and on track toward long-term goals. When a company is managing strategically, it deals with short-term issues on an ad hoc basis in ways that do not derail its long-term vision.






Strategic financial management includes assessing and managing a company's capital structure, the mix of debt and equity finance employed, to ensure a company's long-term solvency.


   Strategic Versus Tactical Financial Management  

The term "strategic" refers to financial management practices that are focused on long-term success, as opposed to "tactical" management decisions, which relate to short-term positioning. If a company is being strategic instead of tactical, it makes financial decisions based on what it thinks would achieve results ultimately—that is, in the future—which implies that to realize those results, a firm sometimes must tolerate losses in the present.






"Strategic" management focuses on long-term success and "tactical" management relates to short-term positioning.



Part of effective strategic financial management thus may involve sacrificing or readjusting short-term goals in order to attain the company's long-term objectives more efficiently. For example, if a company suffered a net loss for the previous year, then it may choose to reduce its asset base through closing facilities or reducing staff, thereby decreasing its operating expenses. Taking such steps may result in restructuring costs or other one-time items that negatively affect the company's finances further in the short term, but which position the company better to succeed in the long term.



These short-term versus long-term tradeoffs often need to be made with various stakeholders in mind. For instance, shareholders of public companies may discipline management for decisions that negatively affect a company's share price in the short term, even though the long-term health of the company becomes more solid by the same decisions.


   The Elements of Strategic Financial Management  

A company will apply strategic financial management throughout its organizational operations, which involves designing elements that will maximize the firm's financial resources and use them efficiently. Here a firm needs to be creative, as there is no one-size-fits-all approach to strategic management, and each company will devise elements that reflect its own particular needs and goals. However, some of the more common elements of strategic financial management could include the following.


  Planning  

Define objectives precisely.Identify and quantify available and potential resources.Write a specific business financial plan.


  Budgeting  

Help the company function with financial efficiency, and reduce waste.Identify areas that incur the most operating costs, or exceed the budgeted cost.Ensure sufficient liquidity to cover operating expenses without tapping external resources.Uncover areas where a firm may invest earnings to achieve goals more effectively.


  Managing and Assessing Risk  

Identify, analyze, and mitigate uncertainty in investment decisions.Evaluate the potential for financial exposure; examine capital expenditures (CapEx) and workplace policies.Employ risk metrics such as degree of operating leverage calculations, standard deviation, and value-at-risk (VaR) strategies.


  Establishing Ongoing Procedures  

Collect and analyze data.Make financial decisions that are consistent.Track and analyze variance—that is, differences between budgeted and actual results.Identify problems and take appropriate corrective actions.


   Strategies Based on Industry  

Just as financial management strategies will vary from company to company, they also can differ according to industry and sector.



Firms that operate in fast-growing industries—like information technology or technical services—would want to choose strategies that cite their goals for growth and specify movement in a positive direction. Their objectives, for example, might include launching a new product or increasing gross revenue within the next 12 months.



On the other hand, companies in slow-growing industries—like sugar manufacturing or coal-power production—could choose objectives that focus on protecting their assets and managing expenses, such as reducing administrative costs by a certain percentage.




What Are the Benefits of Strategic Management?
Having a long-term focus helps a company maintain its goals, even as short-term rough patches or opportunities come and go. As a result, strategic management helps keep a firm profitable and stable by sticking to its long-run plan. Strategic management not only sets company targets but sets guidelines for achieving those objectives even as challenges appear along the way.




What Is the Scope of Strategic Financial Management?
Strategic management can encompass all aspects of a firm's long-term objectives. Financial management often plays a key role in this, which involves cost reduction, risk management, and budgeting.




What Is the Ultimate Objective of Strategic Financial Management?
The goal of strategic financial management is to ensure that long-term goals are properly planned for and ultimately met.
What Is Strategic Management?  

Strategic management is the management of an organization’s resources to achieve its goals and objectives.



Strategic management involves setting objectives, analyzing the competitive environment, analyzing the internal organization, evaluating strategies, and ensuring that management rolls out the strategies across the organization.





Key Takeaways

Companies, universities, nonprofits, and other organizations can use strategic management as a way to make goals and meet objectives.Flexible companies may find it easier to make changes to their structure and plans, while inflexible companies may chafe at a changing environment.A strategic manager may oversee strategic management plans and devise ways for organizations to meet their benchmark goals. 


   Understanding Strategic Management  

Strategic management is divided into several schools of thought. A prescriptive approach to strategic management outlines how strategies should be developed, while a descriptive approach focuses on how strategies should be put into practice. These schools differ on whether strategies are developed through an analytic process, in which all threats and opportunities are accounted for, or are more like general guiding principles to be applied.



Business culture, the skills and competencies of employees, and organizational structure are all important factors that influence how an organization can achieve its stated objectives. Inflexible companies may find it difficult to succeed in a changing business environment. Creating a barrier between the development of strategies and their implementation can make it difficult for managers to determine whether objectives have been efficiently met.



While an organization’s upper management is ultimately responsible for its strategy, the strategies are often sparked by actions and ideas from lower-level managers and employees. An organization may have several employees devoted to strategy, rather than relying solely on the chief executive officer (CEO) for guidance.



Because of this reality, organizational leaders focus on learning from past strategies and examining the environment at large. The collective knowledge is then used to develop future strategies and to guide the behavior of employees to ensure that the entire organization is moving forward. For these reasons, effective strategic management requires both an inward and outward perspective.






Strategic management extends to internal and external communication practices as well as to tracking, which ensures that the company meets goals as defined in its strategic management plan.


   The 5 Phases of Strategic Management  

Strategic management involves managing an organization's resources, analyzing internal and external forces, and developing strategies to realize goals and objectives. There are five key phases that can help businesses execute their strategies.



An organization must first establish clear, realistic goals. Its goals should answer what the company wants to achieve and why. Once set, the company can then identify the objectives, or how the goals will be reached. During this phase, the company can articulate its vision and long and short-term goals.Organizations must then be able to examine, understand, and codify what internal and external forces affect their business and goals, as well as what it needs to remain competitive. Analytical tools, such as SWOT analysis, are helpful during this phase.Based on the results of the analysis, the company can then develop its strategy, outlining how the company will achieve its goals and how. In this phase, the company will identify the needed people, technology, and other resources; how these resources will be allocated to fulfill tasks, and what performance metrics are needed to measure success. It is also critical to gain buy-in from stakeholders and business leaders.Once the strategies are defined, it is time for execution. The strategy is taken from planning to implementation. During this phase, the allocated resources are placed into action based on their roles and responsibilities.The final stage of strategic management is to evaluate the effectiveness of implemented strategies using defined metrics. The company will also visit whether ineffective strategies should be replaced with more viable ones. The company should continue to monitor the business landscape and internal operations, as well as maintain strategies that have proven effective. 


   Example of Strategic Management  

For example, a for-profit technical college wishes to increase new student enrollment and enrolled student graduation rates over the next three years. The purpose is to make the college known as the best buy for a student's money among five for-profit technical colleges in the region, with a goal of increasing revenue.



In that case, strategic management means ensuring the school has funds to create high-tech classrooms and hire the most qualified instructors. The college also invests in marketing and recruitment and implements student retention strategies. The college’s leadership assesses whether its goals have been achieved on a periodic basis.


   Why Is Strategic Management Important?  

Helping their company find ways to be more competitive is the purpose of strategic management. To that end, putting strategic management plans into practice is the most important aspect of the planning itself. Plans in practice involve identifying benchmarks, realigning resources—financial and human—and putting leadership resources in place to oversee the creation, sale, and deployment of products and services.



In business, strategic management is important because it allows a company to analyze areas for operational improvement. In many cases, they can follow either an analytical process, which identifies potential threats and opportunities, or simply follow general guidelines. Given the structure of the organization, a company may choose to follow either a prescriptive or descriptive approach to strategic management. Under a prescriptive model, strategies are outlined for development and execution. By contrast, a descriptive approach describes how a company can develop these strategies. 




What Is Strategic Management?
Strategic management is the process of setting goals, procedures, and objectives in order to make a company or organization more competitive. Typically, strategic management looks at effectively deploying staff and resources to achieve these goals. Often, strategic management includes strategy evaluation, internal organization analysis, and strategy execution throughout the company.




What Is an Example of Strategic Management?
Consider a large company that wants to achieve more ambitious online sales rates. To meet these goals, the company will develop a strategy, communicate this strategy, apply it across various units and departments in the organization, integrate this with employee goals, and execute accordingly. If an effective strategy is applied, ideally, it will help the company achieve its targets through a single, coordinated process. 




What Are the Key Elements of Strategic Management?
Strategic management is not a one-size-fits-all strategy. However, there are key elements that are found to be critical. These include goal setting, industry and organizational analyses, strategy formation, strategy implementation; and the measurement, monitoring, and controlling of strategies.


   The Bottom Line  

Strategic management is the assembling and management of resources to achieve a company's goals and objectives. Although it is often segmented into either prescriptive or descriptive schools of thought, many businesses subscribe to a combined philosophy, defining how a strategy should be developed and how the strategies will be employed. Strategic management helps companies set goals, gain a competitive edge, better manage their resources, and more. There is not one prescription for all. Companies must create and adapt a strategic management process that works best for their company and those they serve. Strategic management does not end with the successful implementation of strategies; it continues for the life of the business.
What Is Stratified Random Sampling?  

Stratified random sampling is a method of sampling that involves the division of a population into smaller subgroups known as strata. In stratified random sampling, or stratification, the strata are formed based on members’ shared attributes or characteristics, such as income or educational attainment. Stratified random sampling has numerous applications and benefits, such as studying population demographics and life expectancy.



Stratified random sampling is also called proportional random sampling or quota random sampling.





Key Takeaways

Stratified random sampling allows researchers to obtain a sample population that best represents the entire population being studied.Sampling involves statistical inference made using a subset of a population.Stratified random sampling is done by dividing the entire population into homogeneous groups called strata.Proportional stratified random sampling involves taking random samples from stratified groups, in proportion to the population. In disproportionate sampling, the strata are not proportional to the occurrence of the population. Stratified random sampling differs from simple random sampling, which involves the random selection of data from an entire population, so each possible sample is equally likely to occur.












Investopedia / Xiaojie Liu


   How Stratified Random Sampling Works  

When completing analysis or research on a group of entities with similar characteristics, a researcher may find that the population size is too large to complete research on it. To save time and money, an analyst may take on a more feasible approach by selecting a small group from the population. The small group is referred to as a sample size, which is a subset of the population used to represent the entire population. A sample may be selected from a population through a number of ways, one of which is the stratified random sampling method.



Stratified random sampling involves dividing the entire population into homogeneous groups called strata (plural for stratum). Random samples are then selected from each stratum. For example, consider an academic researcher who would like to know the number of MBA students in 2021 who received a job offer within three months of graduation.



The researcher will soon find that there were almost 200,000 MBA graduates for the year. They might decide just to take a simple random sample of 50,000 graduates and run a survey. Better still, they could divide the population into strata and take a random sample from the strata. To do this, they would create population groups based on gender, age range, race, country of nationality, and career background. A random sample from each stratum is taken in a number proportional to the stratum’s size compared with the population. These subsets of the strata are then pooled to form a random sample.






Stratified sampling is used to highlight differences among groups in a population, as opposed to simple random sampling, which treats all members of a population as equal, with an equal likelihood of being sampled.


   Example of Stratified Random Sampling  

Suppose a research team wants to determine the grade point average (GPA) of college students across the United States. The research team has difficulty collecting data from all 21 million college students; it decides to take a random sample of the population by using 4,000 students.



Now assume that the team looks at the different attributes of the sample participants and wonders if there are any differences in GPAs and students’ majors. Suppose it finds that 560 students are English majors, 1,135 are science majors, 800 are computer science majors, 1,090 are engineering majors, and 415 are math majors. The team wants to use a proportional stratified random sample where the stratum of the sample is proportional to the random sample in the population.



Assume the team researches the demographics of college students in the U.S. and finds the percentage of what students major in: 12% major in English, 28% major in science, 24% major in computer science, 21% major in engineering, and 15% major in mathematics. Thus, five strata are created from the stratified random sampling process.



The team then needs to confirm that the stratum of the population is in proportion to the stratum in the sample; however, they find the proportions are not equal. The team then needs to resample 4,000 students from the population and randomly select 480 English, 1,120 science, 960 computer science, 840 engineering, and 600 mathematics students.



With those groups, it has a proportionate stratified random sample of college students, which provides a better representation of students’ college majors in the U.S. The researchers can then highlight specific stratum, observe the varying types of studies of U.S. college students and observe the various GPAs.


   Simple vs. Stratified Random Samples  

Simple random samples and stratified random samples are both statistical measurement tools. A simple random sample is used to represent the entire data population. A stratified random sample divides the population into smaller groups, or strata, based on shared characteristics. However, stratified sampling is more complicated, time consuming, and potentially more expensive to carry out than simplified random sampling.



The simple random sample is often used when there is very little information available about the data population, when the data population has far too many differences to divide into various subsets, or when there is only one distinct characteristic among the data population.



For instance, a candy company may want to study the buying habits of its customers to determine the future of its product line. If there are 10,000 customers, it may use choose 100 of those customers as a random sample. It can then apply what it finds from those 100 customers to the rest of its base. Unlike stratification, it will sample 100 members purely at random without any regard for their individual characteristics.


   Proportionate and Disproportionate Stratification  

Stratified random sampling ensures that each subgroup of a given population is adequately represented within the whole sample population of a research study. Stratification can be proportionate or disproportionate. In a proportionate stratified method, the sample size of each stratum is proportionate to the population size of the stratum. This type of stratified random sampling is often a more precise metric because it’s a better representation of the overall population.



For example, if the researcher wanted a sample of 50,000 graduates using age range, the proportionate stratified random sample will be obtained using this formula: (sample size/population size) × stratum size. The table below assumes a population size of 180,000 MBA graduates per year.












Age group
24–28
29–33
34–37
Total




Number of people in stratum
90,000
60,000
30,000
180,000


Strata sample size
25,000
16,667
8,333
50,000






The strata sample size for MBA graduates in the age range of 24 to 28 years old is calculated as (50,000/180,000) × 90,000 = 25,000. The same method is used for the other age-range groups. Now that the strata sample size is known, the researcher can perform simple random sampling in each stratum to select his survey participants. In other words, 25,000 graduates from the 24–28 age group will be selected randomly from the entire population, 16,667 graduates from the 29–33 age range will be selected from the population randomly, and so on.



In a disproportional stratified sample, the size of each stratum is not proportional to its size in the population. The researcher may decide to sample half of the graduates within the 34–37 age group and one-third of the graduates within the 29–33 age group.



It is important to note that one person cannot fit into multiple strata. Each entity must only fit in one stratum. Having overlapping subgroups means that some individuals will have higher chances of being selected for the survey, which completely negates the concept of stratified sampling as a type of probability sampling.






Portfolio managers can use stratified random sampling to create portfolios by replicating an index such as a bond index.


   Advantages of Stratified Random Sampling  

The main advantage of stratified random sampling is that it captures key population characteristics in the sample. Similar to a weighted average, this method of sampling produces characteristics in the sample that are proportional to the overall population. Stratified random sampling works well for populations with a variety of attributes but is otherwise ineffective if subgroups cannot be formed.



Stratification gives a smaller error in estimation and greater precision than the simple random sampling method. The greater the differences among the strata, the greater the gain in precision.


   Disadvantages of Stratified Random Sampling  

Unfortunately, this method of research cannot be used in every study. The method’s disadvantage is that several conditions must be met for it to be used properly. Researchers must identify every member of a population being studied and classify each of them into one, and only one, subpopulation. As a result, stratified random sampling is disadvantageous when researchers can’t confidently classify every member of the population into a subgroup. Also, finding an exhaustive and definitive list of an entire population can be challenging.



Overlapping can be an issue if there are subjects that fall into multiple subgroups. When simple random sampling is performed, those who are in multiple subgroups are more likely to be chosen. The result could be a misrepresentation or inaccurate reflection of the population.



The above examples make it easy: Undergraduate, graduate, male, and female are clearly defined groups. In other situations, however, it might be far more difficult. Imagine incorporating characteristics such as race, ethnicity, or religion. The sorting process becomes more difficult, rendering stratified random sampling an ineffective and less-than-ideal method.




When would you use stratified random sampling?
Stratified random sampling is often when researchers want to know about different subgroups or strata based on the entire population being studied—for instance, if one is interested in differences among groups based on race, gender, or education.




Which sampling method is best?
The method of sampling best to use will depend on the nature of the analysis and the data being used. In general, simple random sampling is often the easiest and cheapest, but stratified sampling can produce a more accurate sample relative to the population under study.




What are the two types of stratified random sampling?
Proportionate sampling takes each stratum in the sample as proportionate to the population size of the stratum. In disproportionate sampling, the analyst will over- or under-sample certain strata based on the research question or study design that they are employing. For example, those interested in childhood education outcomes may over-sample school-age children and those in their early work lives while under-sampling younger and older strata.




How are strata chosen for stratified random sampling?
The strata will depend on the subgroups in which you are interested that appear in your population. These subgroups are based on shared differences among participant characteristics such as gender, race, educational attainment, geographic location, or age group.
What Is SWOT Analysis?  

SWOT (strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats) analysis is a framework used to evaluate a company's competitive position and to develop strategic planning. SWOT analysis assesses internal and external factors, as well as current and future potential.



A SWOT analysis is designed to facilitate a realistic, fact-based, data-driven look at the strengths and weaknesses of an organization, initiatives, or within its industry. The organization needs to keep the analysis accurate by avoiding pre-conceived beliefs or gray areas and instead focusing on real-life contexts. Companies should use it as a guide and not necessarily as a prescription.






Subscribe to 'Term of the Day' and learn a new financial term every day. Stay informed and make smart financial decisions. Sign up now.





Key Takeaways

SWOT analysis is a strategic planning technique that provides assessment tools.Identifying core strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats leads to fact-based analysis, fresh perspectives, and new ideas.A SWOT analysis pulls information internal sources (strengths of weaknesses of the specific company) as well as external forces that may have uncontrollable impacts to decisions (opportunities and threats).SWOT analysis works best when diverse groups or voices within an organization are free to provide realistic data points rather than prescribed messaging.Findings of a SWOT analysis are often synthesized to support a single objective or decision that a company is facing. 












Investopedia / Xiaojie Liu


   Understanding SWOT Analysis  

SWOT analysis is a technique for assessing the performance, competition, risk, and potential of a business, as well as part of a business such as a product line or division, an industry, or other entity.



Using internal and external data, the technique can guide businesses toward strategies more likely to be successful, and away from those in which they have been, or are likely to be, less successful. Independent SWOT analysts, investors, or competitors can also guide them on whether a company, product line, or industry might be strong or weak and why.






SWOT analysis was first used to analyze businesses. Now, it's often used by governments, nonprofits, and individuals, including investors and entrepreneurs. There is seemingly limitless applications to the SWOT analysis.


   Components of SWOT Analysis  

Every SWOT analysis will include the following four categories. Though the elements and discoveries within these categories will vary from company to company, a SWOT analysis is not complete without each of these elements:


  Strengths  

Strengths describe what an organization excels at and what separates it from the competition: a strong brand, loyal customer base, a strong balance sheet, unique technology, and so on. For example, a hedge fund may have developed a proprietary trading strategy that returns market-beating results. It must then decide how to use those results to attract new investors.


  Weaknesses  

Weaknesses stop an organization from performing at its optimum level. They are areas where the business needs to improve to remain competitive: a weak brand, higher-than-average turnover, high levels of debt, an inadequate supply chain, or lack of capital.


  Opportunities  

Opportunities refer to favorable external factors that could give an organization a competitive advantage. For example, if a country cuts tariffs, a car manufacturer can export its cars into a new market, increasing sales and market share.


  Threats  

Threats refer to factors that have the potential to harm an organization. For example, a drought is a threat to a wheat-producing company, as it may destroy or reduce the crop yield. Other common threats include things like rising costs for materials, increasing competition, tight labor supply. and so on.


   SWOT Table  

Analysts present a SWOT analysis as a square segmented into four quadrants, each dedicated to an element of SWOT. This visual arrangement provides a quick overview of the company’s position. Although all the points under a particular heading may not be of equal importance, they all should represent key insights into the balance of opportunities and threats, advantages and disadvantages, and so forth.



The SWOT table is often laid out with the internal factors on the top row and the external factors on the bottom row. In addition, the items on the left side of the table are more positive/favorable aspects, while the items on the right are more concerning/negative elements.


   How to Do a SWOT Analysis  

A SWOT analysis can be broken into several steps with actionable items before and after analyzing the four components. In general, a SWOT analysis will involve the following steps.


  Step 1: Determine Your Objective  

A SWOT analysis can be broad, though more value will likely be generated if the analysis is pointed directly at an objective. For example, the objective of a SWOT analysis may focused only on whether or not to perform a new product rollout. With an objective in mind, a company will have guidance on what they hope to achieve at the end of the process. In this example, the SWOT analysis should help determine whether or not the product should be introduced.


  Step 2: Gather Resources  

Every SWOT analysis will vary, and a company may need different data sets to support pulling together different SWOT analysis tables. A company should begin by understanding what information it has access to, what data limitations it faces, and how reliable its external data sources are.



In addition to data, a company should understand the right combination of personnel to have involved in the analysis. Some staff may be more connected with external forces, while various staff within the manufacturing or sales departments may have a better grasp of what is going on internally. Having a broad set of perspectives is also more likely to yield diverse, value-adding contributions.


  Step 3: Compile Ideas  

For each of the four components of the SWOT analysis, the group of people assigned to performing the analysis should begin listing ideas within each category. Examples of questions to ask or consider for each group are in the table below.



Internal Factors



What occurs within the company serves as a great source of information for the strengths and weaknesses categories of the SWOT analysis. Examples of internal factors include financial and human resources, tangible and intangible (brand name) assets, and operational efficiencies.



Potential questions to list internal factors are:



(Strength) What are we doing well?(Strength) What is our strongest asset?(Weakness) What are our detractors?(Weakness) What are our lowest-performing product lines?



External Factors



What happens outside of the company is equally as important to the success of a company as internal factors. External influences, such as monetary policies, market changes, and access to suppliers, are categories to pull from to create a list of opportunities and weaknesses.



Potential questions to list external factors are:



(Opportunity) What trends are evident in the marketplace?(Opportunity) What demographics are we not targeting?(Threat) How many competitors exist, and what is their market share?(Threat) Are there new regulations that potentially could harm our operations or products?









Strengths1. What is our competitive advantage?2. What resources do we have?3. What products are performing well?
Weaknesses1. Where can we improve?2. What products are underperforming?3. Where are we lacking resources?


Opportunities 1. What new technology can we use?2. Can we expand our operations?3. What new segments can we test?
Threats1. What regulations are changing?2. What are competitors doing?3. How are consumer trends changing?






Companies may consider performing this step as a "white-boarding" or "sticky note" session. The idea is there is no right or wrong answer; all participants should be encouraged to share whatever thoughts they have. These ideas can later be discarded; in the meantime, the goal should be to come up with as many items as possible to invoke creativity and inspiration in others.


  Step 4: Refine Findings  

With the list of ideas within each category, it is now time to clean-up the ideas. By refining the thoughts that everyone had, a company can focus on only the best ideas or largest risks to the company. This stage may require substantial debate among analysis participants, including bringing in upper management to help rank priorities.


  Step 5: Develop the Strategy  

Armed with the ranked list of strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats, it is time to convert the SWOT analysis into a strategic plan. Members of the analysis team take the bulleted list of items within each category and create a synthesized plan that provides guidance on the original objective.



For example, the company debating whether to release a new product may have identified that it is the market leader for its existing product and there is the opportunity to expand to new markets. However, increased material costs, strained distribution lines, the need for additional staff, and unpredictable product demand may outweigh the strengths and opportunities. The analysis team develops the strategy to revisit the decision in six months in hopes of costs declining and market demand becoming more transparent.






Use a SWOT analysis to identify challenges affecting your business and opportunities that can enhance it. However, note that it is one of many techniques, not a prescription.


   Benefits of SWOT Analysis  

A SWOT analysis won't solve every major question a company has. However, there's a number of benefits to a SWOT analysis that make strategic decision-making easier.



A SWOT analysis makes complex problems more manageable. There may be an overwhelming amount of data to analyze and relevant points to consider when making a complex decision. In general, a SWOT analysis that has been prepared by paring down all ideas and ranking bullets by importance will aggregate a large, potentially overwhelming problem into a more digestible report.
A SWOT analysis requires external consider. Too often, a company may be tempted to only consider internal factors when making decisions. However, there are often items out of the company's control that may influence the outcome of a business decision. A SWOT analysis covers both the internal factors a company can manage and the external factors that may be more difficult to control.
A SWOT analysis can be applied to almost every business question. The analysis can relate to an organization, team, or individual. It can also analyze a full product line, changes to brand, geographical expansion, or an acquisition. The SWOT analysis is a versatile tool that has many applications.
A SWOT analysis leverages different data sources. A company will likely use internal information for strengths and weaknesses. The company will also need to gather external information relating to broad markets, competitors, or macroeconomic forces for opportunities and threats. Instead of relying on a single, potentially biased source, a good SWOT analysis compiles various angles.
A SWOT analysis may not be overly costly to prepare. Some SWOT reports do not need to be overly technical; therefore, many different staff members can contribute to its preparation without training or external consulting.


   SWOT Analysis Example  

In 2015, a Value Line SWOT analysis of The Coca-Cola Company noted strengths such as its globally famous brand name, vast distribution network, and opportunities in emerging markets. However, it also noted weaknesses and threats such as foreign currency fluctuations, growing public interest in "healthy" beverages, and competition from healthy beverage providers.



Its SWOT analysis prompted Value Line to pose some tough questions about Coca-Cola's strategy, but also to note that the company "will probably remain a top-tier beverage provider" that offered conservative investors "a reliable source of income and a bit of capital gains exposure."



Five years later, the Value Line SWOT analysis proved effective as Coca-Cola remains the 6th strongest brand in the world (as it was then). Coca-Cola's shares (traded under ticker symbol KO) have increased in value by over 60% during the five years after the analysis was completed.



To get a better picture of a SWOT analysis, consider the example of a fictitious organic smoothie company. To better understand how it competes within the smoothie market and what it can do better, it conducted a SWOT analysis. Through this analysis, it identified that its strengths were good sourcing of ingredients, personalized customer service, and a strong relationship with suppliers. Peering within its operations, it identified a few areas of weakness: little product diversification, high turnover rates, and outdated equipment.



Examining how the external environment affects its business, it identified opportunities in emerging technology, untapped demographics, and a culture shift towards healthy living. It also found threats, such as a winter freeze damaging crops, a global pandemic, and kinks in the supply chain. In conjunction with other planning techniques, the company used the SWOT analysis to leverage its strengths and external opportunities to eliminate threats and strengthen areas where it is weak.




What Is SWOT Analysis?
SWOT (strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats) analysis is a method for identifying and analyzing internal strengths and weaknesses and external opportunities and threats that shape current and future operations and help develop strategic goals. SWOT analyses are not limited to companies. Individuals can also use SWOT analysis to engage in constructive introspection and form personal improvement goals.




What Is an Example of SWOT Analysis?
Home Depot conducted a SWOT analysis, creating a balanced list of its internal advantages and disadvantages and external factors threatening its market position and growth strategy. High-quality customer service, strong brand recognition, and positive relationships with suppliers were some of its notable strengths; whereas, a constricted supply chain, interdependence on the U.S. market, and a replicable business model were listed as its weaknesses.Closely related to its weaknesses, Home Depot's threats were the presence of close rivals, available substitutes, and the condition of the U.S. market. It found from this study and other analysis that expanding its supply chain and global footprint would be key to its growth.




What Are the 4 Steps of SWOT Analysis?
The four steps of SWOT analysis comprise the acronym SWOT: strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats. These four aspects can be broken into two analytical steps. First, a company assesses its internal capabilities and determines its strengths and weaknesses. Then, a company looks outward and evaluates external factors that impact its business. These external factors may create opportunities or threaten existing operations.




How Do You Write a Good SWOT Analysis?
Creating a SWOT analysis involves identifying and analyzing the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats of a company. It is recommended to first create a list of questions to answer for each element. The questions serve as a guide for completing the SWOT analysis and creating a balanced list. The SWOT framework can be constructed in list format, as free text, or, most commonly, as a 4-cell table, with quadrants dedicated to each element. Strengths and weaknesses are listed first, followed by opportunities and threats.




Why Is SWOT Analysis Used?
A SWOT analysis is used to strategically identify areas of improvement or competitive advantages for a company. In addition to analyzing thing that a company does well, SWOT analysis takes a look at more detrimental, negative elements of a business. Using this information, a company can make smarter decisions to preserve what it does well, capitalize on its strengths, mitigate risk regarding weaknesses, and plan for events that may adversely affect the company in the future.


   The Bottom Line  

A SWOT analysis is a great way to guide business-strategy meetings. It's powerful to have everyone in the room discuss the company's core strengths and weaknesses, define the opportunities and threats, and brainstorm ideas. Oftentimes, the SWOT analysis you envision before the session changes throughout to reflect factors you were unaware of and would never have captured if not for the group’s input.



A company can use a SWOT for overall business strategy sessions or for a specific segment such as marketing, production, or sales. This way, you can see how the overall strategy developed from the SWOT analysis will filter down to the segments below before committing to it. You can also work in reverse with a segment-specific SWOT analysis that feeds into an overall SWOT analysis.



Although a useful planning tool, SWOT has limitations. It is one of several business planning techniques to consider and should not be used alone. Also, each point listed within the categories is not prioritized the same. SWOT does not account for the differences in weight. Therefore, a deeper analysis is needed, using another planning technique.
What Is Stress Testing?  

Stress testing is a computer simulation technique used to test the resilience of institutions and investment portfolios against possible future financial situations. Such testing is customarily used by the financial industry to help gauge investment risk and the adequacy of assets and help evaluate internal processes and controls. In recent years, regulators have also required financial institutions to carry out stress tests to ensure their capital holdings and other assets are adequate.





Key Takeaways

Stress testing is a computer-simulated technique to analyze how banks and investment portfolios fare in drastic economic scenarios.Stress testing helps gauge investment risk and the adequacy of assets, as well as to help evaluate internal processes and controls.Stress tests can use historical, hypothetical, or simulated scenarios.Regulations require banks to carry out various stress-test scenarios and report on their internal procedures for managing capital and risk.The Federal Reserve requires banks with $100 billion in assets or more to perform a stress test.


   Understanding Stress Testing  

Companies that manage assets and investments commonly use stress testing to determine portfolio risk, then set in place any hedging strategies necessary to mitigate against possible losses. Specifically, their portfolio managers use internal proprietary stress-testing programs to evaluate how well the assets they manage might weather certain market occurrences and external events.



Asset and liability matching stress tests are widely used, too, by companies that want to ensure they have the proper internal controls and procedures in place. Retirement and insurance portfolios are also frequently stress-tested to ensure that cash flow, payout levels, and other measures are well aligned.


   Regulatory Stress Testing  

Following the 2008 financial crisis, regulatory reporting for the financial industry—specifically for banks—was significantly expanded, focusing on stress testing and capital adequacy, mainly due to the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act.



Beginning in 2011, new regulations in the United States required the submission of Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) documentation by the banking industry. These regulations require banks to report on their internal procedures for managing capital and carry out various stress-test scenarios.



In addition to CCAR reporting, banks in the United States deemed too big to fail by the Financial Stability Board—typically those with more than $50 billion in assets—must provide stress-test reporting on planning for a bankruptcy scenario. In the government’s most recent reporting review of these banks in 2018, 22 international banks and eight based in the United States were designated as too-big-to-fail.



Currently, BASEL III is also in effect for global banks. Much like the U.S. requirements, this international regulation requires documentation of banks’ capital levels and the administration of stress tests for various crisis scenarios.






Stress testing involves running computer simulations to identify hidden vulnerabilities in institutions and investment portfolios to evaluate how well they might weather adverse events and market conditions.


   Types of Stress Testing  

Stress testing involves running simulations to identify hidden vulnerabilities. The literature about business strategy and corporate governance identifies several approaches to these exercises. Among the most popular are stylized scenarios, hypotheticals, and historical scenarios.


  Historical Stress Testing  

In a historical scenario, the business—or asset class, portfolio, or individual investment—is run through a simulation based on a previous crisis. Examples of historical crises include the stock market crash of October 1987, the Asian crisis of 1997, and the tech bubble that burst in 1999-2000.


  Hypothetical Stress Testing  

A hypothetical stress test is generally more specific, often focusing on how a particular company might weather a particular crisis. For example, a firm in California might stress-test against a hypothetical earthquake or an oil company might do so against the outbreak of war in the Middle East.



Stylized scenarios are a little more scientific in the sense that only one or a few test variables are adjusted at once. For example, the stress test might involve the Dow Jones index losing 10% of its value in a week.


  Simulated Stress Testing  

As for the methodology for stress tests, Monte Carlo simulation is one of the most widely known. This type of stress testing can be used for modeling probabilities of various outcomes given specific variables. Factors considered in the Monte Carlo simulation, for example, often include various economic variables.



Companies can also turn to professionally managed risk management and software providers for various types of stress tests. Moody’s Analytics is one example of an outsourced stress-testing program that can be used to evaluate risk in asset portfolios.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Stress Testing  

Stress tests are forward-looking analytical tools that help financial institutions and banks better understand their financial position and risks. They help managers identify what measures to take if certain events arise and what they should do to mitigate risks. As a result, they are better able to form action plans to thwart threats and prevent failure. For investment managers, they are better able to assess how well managed assets might perform during economic downturns.



To perform stress tests, financial institutions need to create the framework and processes for which the tests can be performed. This restructuring is complex and is often associated with costly mistakes. For example, it's possible that the test scenario does not represent the types of risks a bank may face. This may be due to insufficient data or the test designer's inability to create a relevant test. In the end, the results of the test may lead to the creation of plans for events not likely to occur. This misrepresentation can cause institutions to ignore the risks that are possible.



Lastly, banks with unfavorable results may be barred from paying dividends to their customers and shareholders, as well as may be penalized.





Pros

Helps mitigate risks
Enables better financial planning
Highlights banks' or assets' strengths and weaknesses



Cons

May produce unfavorable consequences
Is complex and costly to administer
May result in inadequate planning





   Example of Stress Testing  

Banks and financial institutions often use the Federal Reserve's Dodd-Franklin Act Stress Test (DFAST) and Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) stress test.﻿﻿



The Federal Reserve administers the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review stress test annually for banks with at least $100 billion in assets. This test identifies whether banks have sufficient capital to operate during economic downturns and plans in place to address such events and other associated risks. Specifically, the Federal Reserve looks at the bank's capital, its plans for its capital (e.g., dividends), and how it assesses capital needs.



The Dodd-Franklin Act Stress Test (DFAST), required for banks with at least $250 billion in assets, is often used in conjunction with the CCAR.﻿﻿ This test can be conducted directly by the Federal Reserve or by financial institutions under the direction of the Fed. This, like the CCAR, reviews whether a bank or financial institution has enough capital to account for losses and continue operations in the event of economic turmoil.






As of March 2020, Federal Home Loan Banks are no longer required to conduct Dodd-Frank Act stress tests.﻿﻿



Although both tests have similar goals, they are administered differently to address as many possible events and risks.


   Stress Testing FAQs  
  What Is Stress Testing?  

Stress testing is an analytical technique to show how a financial services company or bank will be affected by certain financial events or situations. In other words, it shows what can happen and how well prepared institutions are when certain stressors are introduced.


  What Is Stress Testing With an Example?  

The Federal Reserve requires banks of a certain size to perform stress tests, such as the Dodd-Frank Act Stress Test (DFAST) or the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR). These tests review the bank's capital and how well it can meet obligations and operate during trying economic times.


  How Is Stress Testing Performed?  

Stress testing is often performed using computer simulations, running different scenarios. Companies might use historical events, hypothetical situations, or simulations to test how well a company would operate under specific conditions.


  What Happens if You Fail a Stress Test?  

If a company fails a stress test, it may be required to increase its capital reserves or form contingency plans to address threats. In the banking and financial services industry, some failures result in fines or the prohibition of certain activities, such as paying dividends.


    The Bottom Line  

Stress tests can be effective analytical tools in identifying whether a company has sufficient capital, strong assets, and effective plans to weather an economic storm. Companies can use historical, hypothetical, or simulated events to create test scenarios, or they may be required by a regulatory body to perform certain tests. The results can help companies better understand their strengths, weaknesses, and areas of opportunity.
What Is a Strike Price?  

Options contracts are derivatives that give the holders the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell some underlying security at some point in the future at a pre-specified price. This price is known as the option's strike price (or exercise price). For call options, the strike price is where the security can be bought by the option holder; for put options, the strike price is the price at which the security can be sold.



An option's value is informed by the difference between the fixed strike price and the market price of the underlying security, known as the option's "moneyness."



For call options, strikes lower than the market price are said to be in-the-money (ITM), since you can exercise the option to buy the stock for less than the market and immediately sell it at the higher market price. Likewise, in-the-money puts are those with strikes higher than the market price, giving the holder the right to sell the option above the current market price. This feature grants ITM options intrinsic value.



Calls with strikes that are higher than the market, or puts with strikes lower than the market, are instead out-of-the-money (OTM), and only have extrinsic value (also known as time value).





Key Takeaways

The strike price on an options contract is the price at which the underlying security can be either bought or sold once exercised.Also known as the exercise price, the strike price is a key feature of an options contract.The difference between the exercise price and the underlying security’s price determines if an option is “in-the-money” or “out-of-the-money."In-the-money (ITM) options have intrinsic value since their strike prices are lower than the market price for a call, or higher than the market price for a put.At-the-money (ATM) options have a strike price that is equal to the current market price of the underlying.












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   Understanding Strike Prices  

The strike price is a key variable of call and put options, which defines at which price the option holder can buy or sell the underlying security, respectively.



Options are listed with several strike prices both above and below the current market value. Say that a stock is trading at $100 per share. The $110-strike call option would give the holder the right to buy the stock at $110 on or before the date when the contract expires. This means that the option would lose value if the stock falls and gain in value as the underlying stock increases in price. But if it never reaches $110 before the expiration date, the call will expire worthless. This is because you could buy the stock for less. If the stock did rise above $110, you could still exercise the option to pay $110 even though the market price is higher. (Put options would work similarly but give you the right to sell rather than buy the underlying).



The strike prices listed are also standardized, meaning they are at fixed dollar amounts, such as $31, $32, $33, $100, $105, and so on. They may also have $2.50 intervals, such as $12.50, $15.00, and $17.50. The distance between strikes is known as the strike width. Strike prices and widths are set by the options exchanges.






Generally, strikes $1.00 apart are the tightest available on most stocks. Due to stock splits or other events, you may have strikes that result in $0.50 or tighter.


   The Relationship Between Strike Price and the Underlying Security  

The price of an options contract is known as its premium, which is the amount of money that the buyer of an option pays to the seller for the right, but not the obligation, to exercise the option. The price difference between the underlying's market price and the strike price determines an option's value in what is known as the moneyness of the option.



The more "in-the-money" an option is, the higher its premium-as the difference between the strike and the underlying gets smaller, options become more valuable, and when the strike becomes greater they are in-the-money. Similarly, an option will lose value as the difference between the strike and underlying price become larger and as the option falls out-of-the-money.


   "Moneyness:" The Three Types of Strike Prices  

Options can thus be either in-the-money (ITM), out-of-the-money (OTM), or at-the-money (ATM).



For buyers of the call option (such as in the example above), if the strike price is higher than the underlying stock price, the option is out-of-the-money (OTM). In this case, the option doesn't have intrinsic value, but it is likely to still have extrinsic value based on volatility and time until expiration, as either of these two factors could put the option in-the-money in the future. Conversely, If the underlying stock price is above the strike price, the option will have intrinsic value and be in-the-money.



Puts with strike prices higher than the current price will be in-the-money since you can sell the stock higher than the market price and then buy it back for a guaranteed profit. A put option will instead be in-the-money when the underlying stock price is below the strike price and be out-of-the-money when the underlying stock price is above the strike price. Again, an OTM option won't have intrinsic value, but it may still have value based on the volatility of the underlying asset and the time left until option expiration.



Finally, an option with a strike price at or very near to the current market price is known as at-the-money (ATM). ATM options are often the most liquid and active options traded in a name.















Example of call options at different strike prices.
Investopedia / Sabrina Jiang


   Strike Price and Option Delta  

An option's delta is how much its premium will change given a $1 move in the underlying. So, a call with a +0.40 delta will rise by 40 cents if the underlying rises by a dollar.



At-the-money calls have a delta of +0.50; at-the-money puts have a delta of -0.50. Options that are in-the-money will have deltas greater than 0.50 (positively for calls, negatively for puts), and out-of-the-money options will have deltas less than 0.50.



An option with a delta of 1.00 is so deep in-the-money that it essentially behaves like the stock itself. Examples would be call options very far below the current price and puts with strikes very high above it. Conversely, deep out-of-the-money options have deltas very close to zero and are essentially worthless because they are calls that have strikes so high above the market, or puts with strikes so far below it, that it is extremely unlikely they will ever be in the money before expiry.


   What Determines an Options Value  

Pricing models were developed in the 1970s and '80s to help understand the fair value of an options contract, such as the Black-Scholes Model and the Binomial Tree Model. Theoretically, an options' premium should be related to the probability that it finishes in-the-money. The higher that probability, the greater the value of the right that the option grants.



Regardless of what model is used, options prices always depend on the following five inputs



market pricestrike pricetime to expirationinterest ratesvolatilitydividends (if applicable)



We've already seen how the difference between the market price and strike price fit into the equation. The time to expiration and volatility inputs indicate how likely it is for an option to finish in-the-money before it expires. The more time there is to go, and/or the more volatile the underlying's prices moves are, the more likely that the market price will reach the strike price. Therefore, options with longer times until expiration and those with greater volatility will have higher premiums.


   Strike Price Example  

Assume there are two option contracts. One is a call option with a $100 strike price. The other is a call option with a $150 strike price. The current price of the underlying stock is $145. Assume both call options are the same; the only difference is the strike price.



At expiration, the first contract is worth $45. That is, it is in-the-money by $45. This is because the stock is trading $45 higher than the strike price.The second contract is out-of-the-money by $5. If the price of the underlying asset is below the call's strike price at expiration, the option expires worthless.



If we have two put options, both about to expire, and one has a strike price of $40 and the other has a strike price of $50, we can look to the current stock price to see which option has value. If the underlying stock is trading at $45, the $50 put option has a $5 value. This is because the underlying stock is below the strike price of the put.



The $40 put option has no value because the underlying stock is above the strike price. Recall that put options allow the option buyer to sell at the strike price. There is no point using the option to sell at $40 when they can sell at $45 in the stock market. Therefore, the $40 strike price put is worthless at expiration.




Are Some Strike Prices More Desirable Than Others?
The question of what strike price is most desirable will depend on factors such as the risk tolerance of the investor and the options premiums available from the market. For example, many investors will look for options whose strike prices are relatively close to the current market price of the security, based on the logic that those options have a higher probability of being exercised at a profit. At the same time, some investors will deliberately seek out options that are far out-of-the-money—that is, options whose strike prices are very far from the market price—in the hopes of realizing very large returns if the options do become profitable. 




Are Strike Prices and Exercise Prices the Same?
Yes, the terms strike price and exercise price are synonymous. Some traders will use one term over the other and may use the terms interchangeably, but their meanings are the same. Both terms are widely used in derivatives trading.




What Determines How Far Apart Strike Prices Are?
For listed options, strike prices are set by criteria established by the OCC or an exchange, typically with $2.50 distance for strikes below $25, $5 increments for those trading from $25 through $200, and $10 increments for strikes above $200. In general, the strikes will be wider for stocks with higher prices and with less liquidity or trading activity. New strikes may also be requested to be added by contacting the OCC or an exchange.




What Is the Difference Between Strike Price and Spot Price?
The strike price of an option tells you at what price you can buy or sell the underlying security. when the option is exercised.The spot price is another word for the current market price of the underlying security.The difference between the strike price and the spot price determines an option's moneyness and greatly informs its value.


   The Bottom Line  

An option's strike price tells you at what price you can buy (in the case of a call) or sell (for a put) the underlying security before the contract expires. The difference between the strike price and the current market price is called the option's "moneyness," a measure of its intrinsic value. In-the-money options have intrinsic value since they can be exercised at a strike price that is more favorable than the current market price, for a guaranteed profit. Out-of-the-money options do not have intrinsic value, but still contain extrinsic, or time value since the underlying may move to the strike before expiration. At-the-money options have strikes at or very close to the current market price and are often the most liquid and active contracts in a name.
What Is Structural Unemployment?  

Structural unemployment is a longer-lasting form of unemployment caused by fundamental shifts in an economy and exacerbated by extraneous factors such as technology, competition, and government policy. Structural unemployment occurs because workers lack the requisite job skills or live too far from regions where jobs are available and cannot move closer. Jobs are available, but there is a serious mismatch between what companies need and what workers can offer.





Key Takeaways

Structural unemployment is long-lasting unemployment that comes about due to shifts in an economy.This type of unemployment happens because though jobs are available, there’s a mismatch between what companies need and what available workers offer.Structural unemployment can last for decades and usually requires a radical change to reverse.Technology tends to exacerbate structural unemployment, marginalizing certain workers and rendering particular jobs, such as manufacturing, obsolete.Structural unemployment is a more severe form of unemployment compared to cyclical unemployment, frictional unemployment, or seasonal unemployment.


   How Structural Unemployment Works  

Structural unemployment is caused by forces other than the business cycle. This means that structural unemployment can last for decades and may need radical change to redress the situation. If structural unemployment is not addressed, it can increase the unemployment rate long after a recession is over and increase the natural rate of unemployment, which is also known as “frictional unemployment.”



Hundreds of thousands of well-paying manufacturing jobs were lost in the United States over the past three decades as production jobs migrated to lower-cost areas in China and elsewhere. This decline in the number of jobs is responsible for a higher natural rate of unemployment. Growing technology in all areas of life increases future structural unemployment, because workers without adequate skills will get marginalized. Even those with skills may face redundancy, given the high rate of technological obsolescence and the growing use of artificial intelligence (AI).






Structural unemployment is influenced by more than just the business cycle, impacted by major mismatches in the employment system.


   Causes of Structural Unemployment  

There are several common triggers that cause structural unemployment. One of the primary causes of structural unemployment is technological changes. As industries move from one process to another and harness technological capabilities, many jobs and roles become obsolete. Companies may also seek ways to leverage technology as cost-cutting measures, putting their workforce at risk as the business seeks more efficient ways to operate.



By extension, structural unemployment may be caused by poor training or a lack of education programs. As workers get replaced by more efficient processes, workers must adapt by learning new business practices. Should they fail to do so, they may perpetuate structural unemployment by not having an appropriate skillset.



Structural unemployment may also be caused by competition and globalization. Consider how different wage rates around the world may entice companies to see offshore manufacturing processes. Companies may choose to forgo hiring more skilled domestic workers that demand higher compensation in favor of workers willing to be employed for less.


   How to Overcome Structural Unemployment  

As a society, there are several ways an economy can prioritize overcoming structural unemployment as a result of industry shifts or technological advancements.



Continually develop professional skillset. For many workers, structural unemployment may occur as their job is no longer needed. Workers who do not continually learn or professionally develop are more at-risk of not having the skillset needed in an advancing, evolving economy.
Build professional network. As structural unemployment occurs, it may be appropriate for workers to evaluate their skill set and interests. Once workers have identified what they want to do for employment, there's a tremendous benefit to having a large professional network that may be able to refer others to open positions. This is especially true in situations where a worker may not have the technical skill set of a more experienced worker and must rely on the reference's positive recommendation to the hiring company.
Research market trends. Instead of being stagnant in their current role, workers can better understand industry trends, sales projections, and innovation in their market. As people learn more about their line of work, they can get a better sense of what that industry will look like in the future. In some cases, workers may find their job is on a direct path to obsolescence and can proactively attempt to move into a more secure role.
Relocate. Though some governments may subsidize the move to a different area for work, workers may consider whether their skill set is appropriate for their geographical region. As demographics change and companies change locations, it may make more sense for a worker to live somewhere else for greater job security.
Incentivize Work. If a government wants to minimize structural unemployment, it may want to consider minimizing unemployment benefits. For as long as workers have compensation without working, workers may be less incentivized to develop new skills or seek better opportunities.






In 1933, the United States experienced its highest rate of unemployment. During the Great Depression, unemployment peaked at 24.7%.


   Structural Unemployment vs. Other Types of Unemployment  
  Structural Unemployment vs. Cyclical Unemployment  

Structural unemployment and cyclical unemployment are both referred to as involuntary forms of unemployment. This means individuals are unwillingly without a job; though they may be looking for employment, they simply haven't found a role.



The difference between the two often resides in the depth, length, and severity of unemployment. Cyclical unemployment occurs in large part due to spending habits, recessions, and government monetary or fiscal policy. As many industries ebb and flow with success, so does the labor market. Cyclical unemployment is often marked by shorter-term unemployment that rises and falls with economic cycles.



Certain industries may be more exposed to cyclical unemployment rather than structural unemployment. For example, consider long-standing industries such as real estate. While the real estate sector does undergo innovation, it is more prone to cyclical unemployment as a result of economic recessions or contractionary monetary policy.


  Structural Unemployment vs. Frictional Unemployment  

Frictional unemployment is defined as a voluntary form of unemployment. Individuals often leave their jobs to develop other skillsets, return to school, or prioritize work-life balance by taking on less demanding roles. Individuals who are frictionally unemployed are usually actively seeking roles or simply between jobs. These individuals can often return to their old form of work but choose not to.



This is in strong contrast to structural employment in which people do not have a say in being unemployed. In addition, frictional unemployment is often marked by the election to learn something new as opposed to being forced out of a market via structural changes. Frictional unemployment is often on a case-by-case basis (though the pandemic might have prioritized work-life balance for many), whereas structural unemployment is more heavily rooted in entire industries or markets.


  Structural Unemployment vs. Seasonal Unemployment  

While structural unemployment is deeply rooted in the economy, seasonal unemployment is caused by temporary fluctuations in the market. Often spurred by the holidays or the seasons, some jobs simply come and go each year. Snow plow operators or tax return preparers may not work the entire year in their roles due to changing demand throughout the year.



Like frictional unemployment, seasonal unemployment is usually considered voluntary as it is implied that a role will not be for the full year when it is awarded. It is also different from structural unemployment in that it usually lasts a short period of time (often less than a full calendar year).


   Disadvantages of Structural Unemployment  

While the 2007-2009 global recession caused cyclical unemployment, it also increased structural unemployment in the United States. As the jobless rate peaked over 10% in October 2009, the average unemployment period for millions of workers rose significantly. These workers’ skills deteriorated during this time of prolonged unemployment, causing structural unemployment. This has the severe downside of making it even harder for workers to find and retain jobs.



The depressed housing market also affected the job prospects of the unemployed and, therefore, increased structural unemployment. Relocating to a new job in another city would have meant selling a home at a substantial loss, which not many people were willing to do, creating a mismatch of skills and job availability. Therefore, structural has the distinct disadvantage of being solved by potentially incurring major personal financial losses.



The same can be said about education or training. If a company is unable or unwilling to invest in either for their employee, it may be the employee's burden to seek opportunities on their own. Not only does this mean the employee will have to pay for the learning opportunities, the employee will likely be burdened with developing their skillset while working at their potentially full-time job.






The Bureau of Labor Statistics releases unemployment numbers each month on the first Friday at 8:30AM EST.


   Structural Unemployment and COVID-19  

During the COVID-19 pandemic, the United States economy underwent unprecedented changes in structural unemployment and cyclical unemployment.



At its peak, the United States unemployment rate more than quadrupled at the start of the pandemic, reaching 14.0% in April 2020. It's important to note that many of these job losses were temporary. However, consider the following examples of roles that were structurally impacted by COVID-19:



Receptionists: As more companies shifted to full-time remote roles, there has been a systematic decline in front-desk workers, even for companies only commuting to the office several days per week.Product Demonstrator: As malls closed and shopping preferences shifted to online ordering, department store workers specialized in working with customers experienced a shift in what skillsets they needed.Event Coordinators: As events went remote, event planners experienced tremendous pressures to change skillsets and become more technologically savvy.



Also as a result of COVID-19, many individuals voluntarily left the workforce. Though total unemployment has dropped to 3.5% as of the end of 2022, Jerome Powell suggested this number may be understated due to those who are not looking for work. As a result, it is implied that "true" unemployment may be higher as a result of deeper, more structural changes to the economy stemming from the pandemic.


   Real-World Example  

Over the past decade, France has also been hit hard by structural unemployment. Thise often arises from the fact that a large portion of France’s workforce is participating in temporary second-level jobs with little chance of being promoted to long-term contracts, forcing them to strike. This results in a lack of job flexibility and little job mobility, sidelining many French workers who have not adapted to new tasks and skills.



President Emmanuel Macron came into office in May 2017, when the unemployment rate stood at 9.5%. He vowed to address the country’s strict labor laws and make it more “business friendly.” Labor unions and the Macron government began negotiating to help reduce the ranks of the structurally unemployed, and the trends have been encouraging. As of the end of 2019, France’s unemployment stood at 8.1%, down from 8.7% at the start of the year and the lowest since 2009.



Macron’s stated goal was to get to 7% by the year 2022. For most of the year, unemployment remained stable fairly close to this level, reaching 7.3% in Q3 2022. In the Q3 2022 unemployment report, France's long-term unemployment rate (those without work for at least one year) stood at 2%, 0.4% less than its lowest level hit in Q2 2009.




What Is the Best Example of Structural Unemployment?
As cell phone became more popular, the industry shifted away from landline telephones and technology. As a result, those that gained technical knowledge in the mobile phone industry likely found new jobs, while those that fell behind didn't. Due to the structural change of the world, some people who did not adapt from the world moving towards cell phones may have experienced structural unemployment.




What Tends to Cause Structural Unemployment?
Structural unemployment is caused when there are major changes to how the world operates. Consider the implications of COVID-19. As consumer trends change and the world adapts to new preferences, workers must adapt or they risk losing their jobs due to obsolescence.




Is Cyclical Unemployment Better Than Structural Unemployment?
In many ways, cyclical unemployment is often more preferential than structural unemployment. Cyclical unemployment usually lasts for a shorter amount of time. Cyclical unemployment also usually follows the ebb and flow of the economy and market cycles. Structural unemployment is more deeply rooted in markets and skillsets, making it harder to overcome.




Why Is Structural Unemployment Bad?
Structural unemployment is tough to overcome because of how engrained some jobs used to be in the economy, yet these jobs are no longer needed. To overcome structural unemployment, workers usually need to be willing to learn new skills, adapt to using new products, change industries, or physically move to new locations. As opposed to cyclical unemployment that is resolved through market cycles or seasonal unemployment that changes with time, structural unemployment requires deliberate action to overcome.


   The Bottom Line  

Structural unemployment occurs when there are fundamental changes to the economy that change the demand of services. In these cases, people lose their jobs because they are simply no longer needed, mainly because of consumer preferences. Structural unemployment is a more severe type of unemployment compared to cyclical, frictional, or seasonal unemployment.
What Is Structured Finance?  

Structured finance is a heavily involved financial instrument presented to large financial institutions or companies with complicated financing needs who are unsatisfied with conventional financial products. Since the mid-1980s, structured finance has become popular in the finance industry. Collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), synthetic financial instruments, collateralized bond obligations (CBOs), and syndicated loans are examples of structured finance instruments.





Key Takeaways

Structured finance is a financial instrument available to companies with complex financing needs, which cannot be ordinarily solved with conventional financing.Traditional lenders do not generally offer structured financing.Structured financial products, such as collateralized debt obligations, are non-transferable.Structured finance is being used to manage risk and develop financial markets for complex emerging markets.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Understanding Structured Finance  

Structured finance is typically indicated for borrowers—mostly extensive corporations—who have highly specified needs that a simple loan or another conventional financial instrument will not satisfy. In most cases, structured finance involves one or several discretionary transactions to be completed; as a result, evolved and often risky instruments must be implemented.


   Benefits of Structured Finance  

Structured financial products are typically not offered by traditional lenders. Generally, because structured finance is required for major capital injection into a business or organization, investors are required to provide such financing. Structured financial products are almost always non-transferable, meaning that they cannot be shifted between various types of debt in the same way that a standard loan can.



Increasingly, structured financing and securitization are used by corporations, governments, and financial intermediaries to manage risk, develop financial markets, expand business reach, and design new funding instruments for advancing, evolving, and complex emerging markets. For these entities, using structured financing transforms cash flows and reshapes the liquidity of financial portfolios, in part by transferring risk from sellers to buyers of the structured products. Structured finance mechanisms have also been used to help financial institutions remove specific assets from their balance sheets.


   Examples of Structured Finance Products  

When a standard loan is not enough to cover unique transactions dictated by a corporation's operational needs, a number of structured finance products may be implemented. Along with CDOs and CBOs, collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs), credit default swaps (CDSs), and hybrid securities, combining elements of debt and equity securities, are often used.



Securitization is the process through which a financial instrument is created by combining financial assets, commonly resulting in such instruments as CDOs, asset-backed securities, and credit-linked notes. Various tiers of these repackaged instruments are then sold to investors. Securitization, much like structured finance, promotes liquidity and is used to develop the structured financial products used by qualified businesses and other customers. There are many benefits of securitization, including being a less expensive source of funding and better use of capital.



Mortgage-backed securities (MBS) a model example of securitization and its risk-transferring utility. Mortgages may be grouped into one large pool, leaving the issuer the opportunity to divide the pool into pieces that are based on the risk of default inherent to each mortgage. The smaller pieces may then be sold to investors.
What Is a Structured Note?  

A structured note is a debt obligation that also contains an embedded derivative component that adjusts the security's risk-return profile. The return performance of a structured note will track both the underlying debt obligation and the derivative embedded within it. This type of note is a hybrid security that attempts to change its profile by including additional modifying structures, thus increasing the bond's potential return.





Key Takeaways

A structured note is a debt obligation that also contains an embedded derivative component that adjusts the security's risk-return profile.The return on a structured note is linked to the performance of an underlying asset, group of assets, or index.The flexibility of structured notes allows them to offer a wide variety of potential payoffs that are difficult to find elsewhere.Structured notes are complicated financial products that suffer from market risk, low liquidity, and default risk.


   Understanding Structured Notes  

A structured note is a debt security issued by financial institutions. Its return is based on equity indexes, single equity, a basket of equities, interest rates, commodities, or foreign currencies. The performance of a structured note is linked to the return on an underlying asset, group of assets, or index.



All structured notes have two underlying pieces: a bond component and a derivative component. The bond portion of the note takes up most of the investment and provides principal protection. The rest of the investment not allocated to the bond is used to purchase a derivative product and provides upside potential to investors. The derivative portion is used to provide exposure to any asset class.



An example of a structured note would be a five-year bond coupled with a futures contract on almonds. Common structured notes include principal-protected notes, reverse convertible notes, and leveraged notes.






Structured notes are often too risky and complicated for individual investors.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Structured Notes  
  Advantages  

The flexibility of structured notes allows them to provide a wide variety of potential payoffs that are difficult to find elsewhere. They may offer increased or decreased upside potential, downside risk, and overall volatility. For instance, they may consist of a fairly stable bond coupled with out-of-the-money call options on risky stocks. This combination limits losses while creating the potential for large gains. But it may lead to repeated small losses if the call options are too far out of the money.



A structured note offers limited losses in exchange for limited gains compared to other assets. For instance, the structured note might be linked to the S&P 500 with gains capped at 10% and maximum losses set at 15%.



Structured notes can also be used to make unconventional bets on specific outcomes. A structured note might depend on stock market volatility, as measured by the VIX. A different structured note based on bull put spreads might offer significant gains even in flat markets. However, such a note would have high downside risk when the stock market has small losses.


  Disadvantages  

Derivatives are complicated even when they are not combined with other financial products. For instance, commodities futures contracts require specific knowledge on the part of the investor to understand their full implications. That makes a structured note a very complex product, as it is both a debt instrument and a derivative instrument. It is vital to know how to calculate a structured note's expected payoffs.



Market risk is prevalent in all investments. And structured notes have pitfalls. Some structured notes have principal protection. For the ones that don't, it is possible to lose some or all of the principal. This risk arises when the underlying derivative becomes volatile. That can happen with equity prices, interest rates, commodity prices, and foreign exchange rates.



Low liquidity is often a problem for holders of structured notes. The flexibility of structured notes makes it difficult for large markets to develop particular notes. That makes it very hard to buy or sell a structured note on a secondary market. Investors who want a structured note should expect to hold the instrument to its maturity date. Thus, great care must be taken when investing in a structured note.



Structured notes also suffer from higher default risk than their underlying debt obligations and derivatives. If the issuer of the note defaults, the entire value of the investment could be lost. Investors can reduce this default risk by buying debt and derivatives directly. For example, it is possible to buy U.S. Treasury bonds from the government and buy options separately. That would protect most of the funds from default risk.





Pros

Flexible
Offer variety of potential payoffs
Limited losses for limited gains
Can be used for unconventional bets on certain outcomes



Cons

Complicated assets on their own
Potential to lose part or all of the principal
Low liquidity
Hard to trade on the secondary market
Higher default risk than underlying debt obligations and derivatives





   Types of Structured Notes  

The following are several common types of structured notes:



Absolute Notes: These types of structured notes give investors the opportunity to benefit from the upside of an underlying asset while limiting the exposure to any downside risk.Digital Notes: These notes provide investors with a single coupon payment once the note matures. Digital note terms are shorter than income notes.Growth Notes: Investors can reap the benefits of any upside associated with the underlying asset of a growth note, such as any appreciation in the price of a stock or ETF.Income Notes: These structured notes are just like traditional bonds because of the income they pay from coupon payments. They offer fixed terms of at least three months. Any downside risk associated with income notes comes from the way they are structured.






Buffer exchange-traded funds (ETFs) are a more liquid alternative to structured notes for investors who are looking to limit losses in exchange for smaller potential gains.




How Do Structured Notes Work?
A structured note is a complicated investment. It is a derivative that brings together the features of different investments into one vehicle. As such, they track the performance of an underlying asset. Put simply, it is a debt obligation with a derivative embedded into it. There is some degree of flexibility that provides limited losses with limited gains. But they provide investors with low levels of liquidity and can be hard to trade on the secondary market.




Who Invests in Structured Notes?
Structured notes are considered complicated investments because of the intricacies involved. Since they involved both a debt obligation and a derivative, it's important for investors to understand how these two elements work. Having said that, investment banks typically create structured notes for more sophisticated investors like hedge funds and institutional investors.




Can You Lose Money in a Structured Note?
That depends on the type of structured note. Certain notes offer some sort of principal protection. If you invest in a note that doesn't have this protection, you could lose some or all of your principal investment balance.


   The Bottom Line  

The investment world is full of different investments. Each of these comes with its own complexities, risks, and rewards. Structured notes may not be on the minds of average investors, but it's still a good idea to understand how they work. Combining the features of two different types of investments into one, structured notes allow traders to limit their losses, albeit while they limit their gains. But before diving in, it's always a good idea to understand how they work and what risks may come with investing in them.
What Is Student Loan Forgiveness?  

Student loan forgiveness releases borrowers from their obligation to repay part or all of their federal student loan debt. These borrowers have taken out loans to pay for their post-secondary education.



Forgiveness is available for some types of loans, but eligibility is limited to borrowers in certain public service, educational, or military professions.



Please note: President Biden announced a new income-driven repayment (IDR) plan on June 30, 2023 in response to the same-day Supreme Court decision that halted his previous student loan forgiveness plan.



Called SAVE, it offers enhanced financial benefits to student loan borrowers. Three important features will launch during the summer of 2023, while the full regulations take effect on July 1, 2024. Read on to learn more.





Key Takeaways

Student loan forgiveness eliminates part or all of a borrower's federal student loan debt.Only federal direct loans qualify for loan forgiveness, which means private loans aren't covered.You can earn student loan forgiveness by working in public service.Federal loans may also be discharged under circumstances beyond the borrower’s control.Students who feel that their educational institution defrauded them can apply for loan forgiveness under the category of borrower defense.


   How Student Loan Forgiveness Works  
  General Background  

Loan forgiveness means a debt (or part of a debt) is eliminated or forgiven in finance parlance—relieving the borrower of the obligation to repay it. Although any student loan can theoretically be forgiven, student loan forgiveness generally applies to U.S. government-issued or government-backed loans.



In other words, the widely publicized forgiveness programs do not apply to any privately issued loans, like those from a commercial bank or lenders like Sallie Mae—even if those loans are earmarked for students.



For borrowers with eligible loans, forgiveness may be an option. Individuals who want their loans forgiven must apply and may have to continue making payments until their application is approved.



The highly publicized collapse of several for-profit colleges and the pandemic-induced 2020 economic crisis intensified longstanding concerns about the mounting burden of student debt. Broad loan forgiveness for all borrowers, not just those who work in public service, participate in a repayment plan, or have been defrauded by their college, has become a widely debated political issue.






In August 2022, the Biden administration announced student loan forgiveness for qualifying borrowers. To qualify, individuals had to have an income of less than $125,000 ($250,000 for married couples). If your income qualified and you are a Pell Grant recipient, you were eligible for debt cancellation up to $20,000. If you are not a Pell Grant recipient and your income qualified, you were eligible for up to $10,000.Federal courts issued orders to block the plan on Nov. 11, 2022. The Department of Education stopped taking new applications while working to overturn the decision, and any applications that were already submitted were put on hold. On June 30, 2023, the Supreme Court ruled that the Biden administration lacked the authority to cancel up to $20,000 federal student debt per borrower.The three-year forbearance on student loan payments and interest is also set to end. Student loan interest will resume on Sept. 1, while required payments will be due starting in October.


  Eligible Loans  

While many borrowers would love to shed their student debt, few actually get the chance to do so given the current strict eligibility rules. Requirements vary with the type of loan, but most offer forgiveness only for those employed in certain public service occupations. These include teachers, government employees, some nonprofit employees, and members of the military and AmeriCorps.



And not all federal loans are eligible. Student loans eligible for forgiveness are primarily direct loans (also sometimes called Stafford loans), Perkins loans, and, for certain special groups like teachers, Federal Family Education Loans (FFELs). There are also repayment plans offered to student loan borrowers that include the discharge or forgiveness of some of their debt.





$1.77 trillion

The size of U.S. student loan debt as of March 2023.


   Types of Student Loan Forgiveness  

Only direct loans made by the federal government (currently known as the William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Program) are eligible for student loan forgiveness. Non-federal loans (those issued by private lenders and loan companies) aren’t part of this program.



If you do not have a William D. Ford direct loan and, instead, borrowed through the FFEL Program or the now-defunct Perkins Loan Program, you are allowed to consolidate those debts into a direct consolidation loan. The new consolidated loan is then eligible for the PSLF mentioned earlier.



Bear in mind that your student loan servicer handles the repayment of your federal student loans, so work with the servicer to enroll in a repayment plan or change your current plan. You can usually do this online at the servicer’s website.



In addition, if you work for a federal agency, your employer may repay a portion of your loans (up to $10,000 of your loans per year, with a maximum of $60,000) through the federal student loan repayment program.


  1. Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF)  

The Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program (PSLF) is designed specifically for people who work in public service jobs for either the government or a nonprofit organization. You may also be able to get all or part of your loan forgiven due to specified volunteer work, military service, or medical practice.



When You Qualify



To have debt forgiven under the public service program, you must first make 120 qualifying payments (which means paying the minimum amount due on time). These payments must be made while you are working for a qualified employer—generally, a federal, state, or local government or a nonprofit organization with tax-exempt status.



In effect, you qualify after 10 years on the job and 10 years of monthly payments (120 payments overall).



Potentially eligible positions include those in nursing, government, police and fire departments, and social work. Only payments made after Oct. 1, 2007, qualify for the purposes of determining eligibility.






As of May 8, 2023, under the Biden administration, the United States Department of Education approved $66 billion in student loan debt relief for over 2.2 million borrowers, a significant number of whom were victims of for-profit college fraud.


  Applying for PSLF   

To apply for PSLF, both you and your employer need to complete and file the program’s Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) & Temporary Expanded PSLF (TEPSLF) Certification & Application (PSLF form). First, consolidate your FFEL Program loans and Perkins loans into a direct consolidation loan, if applicable. After the consolidation is complete, you must then submit a PSLF form to your loan servicer.


  2. Repayment Plans With Loan Forgiveness  

If you aren’t working in a public service position, you may still be able to get a portion of your student debt forgiven—but it will take longer. Federal income-driven repayment plans, designed to help graduates who would have trouble making payments within the standard 10-year time frame, also allow for some debt forgiveness after a certain period.



These plans include:



Income-Based Repayment (IBR): Maximum monthly payments will be 10% to 15% of discretionary income. Forgiveness eligibility requires 20 or 25 years of qualifying payments.
Income-Contingent Repayment (ICR): Payments are recalculated each year based on gross income, family size, and outstanding federal loan balance; generally, they’re 20% of discretionary income. Forgiveness eligibility requires 25 years of qualifying payments.
Pay As You Earn (PAYE) and Revised Pay As You Earn (REPAYE): Maximum monthly payments will be 10% of discretionary income. Forgiveness eligibility requires 20 years of qualifying payments. The government may even pay part of the interest on the loan.





The New SAVE Program

On June 30, 2023, after the Supreme Court announced its decision that invalidated the administration's original student loan forgiveness plan, President Biden announced a new income-driven repayment (IDR) plan called Saving on a Valuable Eduction (SAVE). It offers student loan borrowers new and improved benefits, such as forgiving a student loan with an original principal amount of $12,000 or less after 10 years of payment (rather than the previous 20 to 25 years).
SAVE will replace the existing REPAYE plan. Those already enrolled in REPAYE will be enrolled in SAVE automatically. The full slate of SAVE regulations goes into effect on July 1, 2024. However, during the summer of 2023, three significant features will go live:

The amount of a borrower’s income protected from payments will rise to 225% of the Federal poverty guidelines from 150%. So, a single borrower earning less than $32,805 annually ($67,500 for family of four) will have no payments. Those loan holders who don’t meet this threshold will save at least $1,000 per year.
Interest charges not covered by a borrower’s monthly payments will be halted so that no unpaid interest can increase the amount a borrower owes.
Married borrowers who file taxes separately won’t have to include a spouse’s income in the calculation of their payment amounts.

For more information about SAVE, see the Department of Education’s fact sheet.


  3. Borrower Defense  

If your school misled you or engaged in other misconduct in violation of certain state laws, you may be eligible for a loan discharge, officially known as “borrower defense to loan repayment” forgiveness.



Applicable to any William D. Ford Direct Loan Program loan, borrower defense originally involved the cancellation of all of your current federal student loan debt if you could demonstrate that you had been defrauded or substantially deceived by the college you attended. Implemented during the Obama administration, borrower defense applies mainly to private, for-profit schools that engage in dubious practices.






In June 2015, for example, the U.S. Department of Education promised debt relief to students of the Corinthian Colleges chain, which abruptly closed campuses and declared bankruptcy in the wake of federal and state investigations into its operations.



Changes to the Relief Formula



During the Trump administration, however, then-Education Secretary Betsy DeVos allegedly attempted to dismantle the program by delaying claims processing, denying claims without due process, increasing the burdens of proof, or offering only partial forgiveness, calculating relief via a complex methodology that awarded applicants $0.



Under the Biden administration, the Department of Education announced in March 2021 that it would rescind “the formula for calculating partial relief” and instead forgive the student loans in borrower defense applications entirely and promptly.



To have your loans discharged under the borrower defense program, you must file a claim by submitting an application on the Department of Education’s website, along with evidence that the school broke the law, significantly misled you, or misrepresented itself.





72,000

The approximate number of borrowers that the Department of Education expected to benefit from borrower defense program revisions, resulting in an additional $1 billion of loan cancellations in the aggregate.


  4. Specialized Loan Forgiveness Programs  

If you work or volunteer for certain organizations, you may be eligible for additional programs that will forgive or reduce your student debt. Here are some examples:



AmeriCorps VISTA, AmeriCorps NCCC, or AmeriCorps State and National programs: Volunteers for these programs can receive up to the maximum Pell Grant award toward repaying qualified student loans (loans backed by the federal government) through the Segal AmeriCorps Education Award. For the 2022–2023 school year, this amounts to $6,895.
Army National Guard: The Army National Guard’s Student Loan Repayment Program can help you earn up to $50,000 toward loans.
Full-time teachers in low-income schools or educational service agencies: Through the Teacher Loan Forgiveness Program, teachers may be eligible for forgiveness of up to either $5,000 or $17,500 on their Federal Direct and FFEL Program loans after five consecutive years of service. The higher amount is for certain math, science, and special education teachers. The Education Department has further details on its website.


   Student Loan Forgiveness vs. Student Loan Discharge  
  Loan Forgiveness  

Although their end results are similar, student loan forgiveness is not quite the same as student loan discharge. Loan forgiveness (also known as cancellation) usually occurs when you're no longer required to make payments because you're in a certain government or nonprofit job.


  Loan Discharge  

Loan discharge often occurs when the borrower declares bankruptcy, dies, or becomes permanently disabled. A discharge can also happen in cases of borrower defense where the educational institution is guilty of fraud or misleading a student in a meaningful way.


   Drawbacks of Student Loan Forgiveness and Repayment Plans  

Student loan forgiveness terms are subject to change with the shifting political winds. So, Mark Kantrowitz, publisher and vice president of research at SavingForCollege.com, warns borrowers against betting their financial future on the hope of debt forgiveness, especially the kind that’s tied to public service.


  10-Year Minimum Work Requirement  

For one thing, there’s a rigid time limit. “Public service loan forgiveness occurs after 10 years of full-time service. It is an all-or-nothing benefit, so borrowers who stop working before reaching the 10-year mark will get no forgiveness,” Kantrowitz says.



Income-based repayment can also have a downside. More interest will accrue on your loan because the repayment is stretched over a longer period of time.


  Larger Payments As Income Grows  

“Loan payments under IBR and PAYE can be negatively amortized, digging the borrower into a deeper hole,” Kantrowitz says. “Borrowers who expect to have a significant increase in their income a few years into repayment should perhaps prefer a repayment plan like extended repayment or graduated repayment, where the monthly payment will be at least as much as the new interest that accrues, and the loan balance will not increase.”



“Remember, payments change annually based on income. When your income rises, your payment can, too,” says Reyna Gobel, author of Graduation Debt: How to Manage Student Loans and Live Your Life.  Even if you succeed in lowering monthly payments, don’t go on a spending spree with the newly available funds, Gobel adds.



“If you’re currently racking up more debt because you expect these plans in the future: Stop! You never know what will or won’t exist for graduates if the law changes in the future. Ask yourself, ‘Could I afford to repay this on a regular Extended Repayment Plan?’ If not, you could be getting yourself into very high debt and a difficult situation.” 


  Student Loan Forgiveness Pros & Cons  



Pros

Relieves burdensome debt
Encourages public service
Increases disposable income/spending



Cons

Takes years to qualify
May increase taxable income
Can accelerate accrual of interest (income-driven repayment plans)







How Do I Get Loans Forgiven?
Getting student loans forgiven has two basic parts. First, you consolidate all your loans into one debt (if you have any federal student loans that aren't direct loans). Then, you apply for forgiveness by filing a special application: Federal Student Aid’s Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) & Temporary Expanded PSLF (TEPSLF) Certification & Application.




Who Pays for Student Loan Forgiveness?
The U.S. government (and ultimately the nation's taxpayers). Most student loan lenders are huge institutions, such as commercial banks or the government (specifically, the Department of Education). Until 2010, student loans were usually originated by a private lender but guaranteed by the government. The Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 ended the practice, replacing such guarantees with direct lending from the federal government.




Can Student Loan Interest Be Forgiven?
Yes, student loan interest can be forgiven—if the loan itself is forgiven. Generally, though, you can’t get loan interest forgiven by itself. If you want to pay less in student loan interest, consider refinancing the debt. In addition, some lenders will knock a bit off your loan’s current rate if you make automatic payments each month, in what’s known as an Automated Clearing House (ACH) discount.


   The Bottom Line  

All is not perfect with forgiveness plans. The kinds of jobs that may make you eligible for student loan forgiveness often pay significantly less than private-sector positions. You might be able to repay your loans more quickly by getting a job with a higher earning potential, even if it doesn’t qualify you for loan forgiveness.



If you do have all or part of your student loans forgiven, be aware that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) may consider the forgiven debt to be income, so you may have to pay tax on that amount. Fortunately, this won’t be a problem for the next few years: Under the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021, any forgiven student loan debt won’t be considered taxable income for the 2021–2025 tax years.



If you choose to participate in any loan forgiveness program, be sure to obtain written verification of the amount and terms of the loan forgiveness.
What Is Subjective Probability?  

Subjective probability is a type of probability derived from an individual's personal judgment or own experience about whether a specific outcome is likely to occur. It contains no formal calculations and only reflects the subject's opinions and past experience. An example of subjective probability is a "gut instinct" when making a trade.





Key Takeaways

Subjective probability is a type of probability derived from an individual's personal judgment or own experience about whether a specific outcome is likely to occur. It contains no formal calculations and only reflects the subject's opinions and past experience rather than on data or computation.Subjective probabilities differ from person to person and contain a high degree of personal bias.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   How Subjective Probability Works  

Subjective probabilities differ from person to person and contain a high degree of personal bias. Subjective probability can be contrasted with objective probability, which is the computed probability that an event will occur based on an analysis in which each measure is based on a recorded observation or a long history of collected data.






Subjective probabilities are the foundation for common errors and biases observed in the market that stem from "old wives' tales" or "rules of thumb."



The probability of an event is based on the likelihood of that event occurring. In most forms of probability, quantitative information is gathered and interpreted to help determine this likelihood through a mathematical mechanism, normally relating to the mathematical field of statistics. The percentage chance of a flipped coin landing on heads or tails can be interpreted as a probability, expressed as a 50% chance that it will land heads up, and a 50% chance it will land tails up.



Subjective probability, on the other hand, is highly flexible, even in terms of one individual’s belief. While an individual may believe the chance of a specified event occurring is 25%, they could have a different belief when given a specific range from which to choose, such as 25% to 30%. This can occur even if no additional hard data is behind the change.



Subjective probability can be affected by a variety of personal beliefs held by an individual. These could relate back to upbringing as well as other events the person has witnessed throughout his life. Even if the individual’s belief can be rationally explained, it does not make the prediction an actual fact. It is often based on how each individual interprets the information presented to him.


   Example of Subjective Probability  

An example of subjective probability is asking New York Yankees fans, before the baseball season starts, about the chances of New York winning the World Series. While there is no absolute mathematical proof behind the answer to the example, fans might still reply in actual percentage terms, such as the Yankees having a 25% chance of winning the World Series.



In another scenario, consider a person who is asked to predict the percentage chance of whether a flipped coin will land with heads or tails up, his initial response may be the mathematically true 50%. If 10 coin flips occur, all resulting in the coin landing tails up, the person may change his percentage chance to a number other than 50%, such as saying the chance of it landing tails up is 75%. Even knowing that the new prediction is mathematically inaccurate, the individual’s personal experience of the previous 10 coin flips has created a situation in which he chooses to use subjective probability.
What Is a Sublease?  

A sublease is the re-renting of property by an existing tenant to a new third party for a portion of the tenant’s existing lease contract. The sublease agreement may also be called a sublet.



Subleasing may or may not be permitted in the terms of the original lease, and may be subject to additional restrictions by jurisdiction. Even if a sublease is permitted, the original tenant is still liable for the obligations stated in the lease agreement, such as the payment of rent each month.





Key Takeaways

A sublease is the legal transfer of tenancy from an existing tenant to a third party for a specified period.The owner of the real estate must typically approve any subletting arrangement offered by the first tenant, subject to local laws and regulations.If a tenant decides to sublease, they remain responsible for rent payments and other contractual obligations.


   How a Sublease Works  

A lease is a contract between a property owner and a tenant that transfers the owner’s rights to the exclusive possession and use of the real estate property to the tenant for an agreed-upon period. The lease states the length of time the contract is to run and the amount of the tenant’s rent. In legal terms, the tenant’s legal right to possess the property is deemed tenancy. Subleasing occurs when the tenant transfers a part of their legal tenancy to a third party as a new tenant.



Subleasing can be established unless the original lease forbids it. However, in most cases, the owner must be notified and must approve any subletting arrangement created by the tenant. Control over the subletting process could be written into the original lease so that the owner has some control over who uses and/or occupies their property.



A tenant who sublets property must understand that subleasing does not release them from their obligations on the original contracted lease. The tenant is responsible for paying rent and for repairs or damage to the property. That means that if a new subtenant does not pay rent for three months, the original tenant that subleased the property is liable to the landlord for the overdue rent amount and any late fees. In turn, the subtenant is liable to the original tenant for the unpaid rent.


   Subleasing and State Laws  

The laws of many states and local municipalities affect a tenant’s right to sublease. These laws may allow an individual to sublease under certain conditions even if their contract with the landlord forbids it. For example, in New York City, a tenant who lives in a building with four or more units has the right to sublease, as long as the landlord consents—or if they deny the sublet on unreasonable grounds, Any lease provision restricting a tenant’s right to sublease is void as a matter of public policy.



In San Francisco, a tenant can replace a roommate with another, even when prohibited by a written lease, as long as the replacement meets the landlord's application screening standards. For example, a landlord might demand a certain credit score where a tenant is concerned. Subleases can apply to both residential and commercial properties.






When subleasing, it's standard for only the original tenant's name to be on the lease—even if the sublessee pays the landlord directly.


   Example of a Sublease  

Because a lease is generally for a predefined term, situations can arise that make it difficult or impossible for the original tenant to complete the lease term. For example, if a tenant is renting an apartment in Chicago with a 12-month lease and, during month four, that tenant receives a job offer in Boston, the tenant may decide to sublease the apartment to another tenant for the remaining eight months. The sublease means that the original tenant can accept the job and move and does not have to pay expensive fees to get out of the lease or pay rent on two apartments.



The landlord also benefits because they receive all 12 rent payments and are saved the expense and effort of finding a replacement tenant. The sublease arrangement also means that the original tenant retains an interest in the apartment. Thus, if the original tenant decides to move back to Chicago, they may be able to renew their lease on their old apartment.
What Is Subordinated Debt?  

Subordinated debt (also known as a subordinated debenture) is an unsecured loan or bond that ranks below other, more senior loans or securities with respect to claims on assets or earnings. Subordinated debentures are thus also known as junior securities. In the case of borrower default, creditors who own subordinated debt will not be paid out until after senior bondholders are paid in full.












Investopedia / Candra Huff





Key Takeaways

Subordinated debt is debt that is repaid after senior debtors are repaid in full.It is riskier as compared to unsubordinated debt and is listed as a long-term liability after unsubordinated debt on the balance sheet.


   Understanding Subordinated Debt  

Subordinated debt is riskier than unsubordinated debt. Subordinated debt is any type of loan that's paid after all other corporate debts and loans are repaid, in the case of borrower default. Borrowers of subordinated debt are usually larger corporations or other business entities. Subordinated debt is the exact opposite of unsubordinated debt in that senior debt is prioritized higher in bankruptcy or default situations.


   Subordinated Debt: Repayment Mechanics  

When a corporation takes out debt, it normally issues two or more bond types that are either unsubordinated debt or subordinated debt. If the company defaults and files for bankruptcy, a bankruptcy court will prioritize loan repayments and require that a company repay its outstanding loans with its assets. The debt that is considered lesser in priority is the subordinated debt. The higher priority debt is considered unsubordinated debt.



The bankrupt company's liquidated assets will first be used to pay the unsubordinated debt. Any cash in excess of the unsubordinated debt will then be allocated to the subordinated debt. Holders of subordinated debt will be fully repaid if there is enough cash on hand for repayment. It's also possible that subordinated debt holders will receive either a partial payment or no payment at all.



Since subordinated debt is risky, it's important for potential lenders to be mindful of a company's solvency, other debt obligations, and total assets when reviewing an issued bond. Although subordinated debt is riskier for lenders, it's still paid out prior to any equity holders. Bondholders of subordinated debt are also able to realize a higher rate of interest to compensate for the potential risk of default.



While subordinated debt is issued by a variety of organizations, its use in the banking industry has received special attention. Such debt is attractive for banks because interest payments are tax-deductible. A 1999 study by the Federal Reserve recommended that banks issue subordinated debt to self-discipline their risk levels. The study's authors argued that issuance of debt by banks would require profiling of risk levels which, in turn, would provide a window into a bank's finances and operations during a time of significant change after a repeal of the Glass-Steagall Act. In some instances, subordinated debt is being used by mutual savings banks to buffer up their balance to meet regulatory requirements for Tier 2 capital.


   Subordinated Debt: Reporting for Corporations  

Subordinated debt, like all other debt obligations, is considered a liability on a company's balance sheet. Current liabilities are listed first on the balance sheet. Senior debt, or unsubordinated debt, is then listed as a long-term liability. Finally, subordinated debt is listed on the balance sheet as a long-term liability in order of payment priority, beneath any unsubordinated debt. When a company issues subordinated debt and receives cash from a lender, its cash account, or its property, plant, and equipment (PPE) account, increases, and a liability is recorded for the same amount.


   Subordinated Debt vs. Senior Debt: An Overview  

The difference between subordinated debt and senior debt is the priority in which the debt claims are paid by a firm in bankruptcy or liquidation. If a company has both subordinated debt and senior debt and has to file for bankruptcy or face liquidation, the senior debt is paid back before the subordinated debt. Once the senior debt is completely paid back, the company then repays the subordinated debt.



Senior debt has the highest priority, and therefore the lowest risk. Thus, this type of debt typically carries or offers lower interest rates. Meanwhile, subordinated debt carries higher interest rates given its lower priority during payback.



Senior debt is generally funded by banks. The banks take the lower risk senior status in the repayment order because they can generally afford to accept a lower rate given their low-cost source of funding from deposit and savings accounts. In addition, regulators advocate for banks to maintain a lower risk loan portfolio.



Subordinated debt is any debt that falls under, or behind, senior debt. However, subordinated debt does have priority over preferred and common equity. Examples of subordinated debt include mezzanine debt, which is debt that also includes an investment. Additionally, asset-backed securities generally have a subordinated feature, where some tranches are considered subordinate to senior tranches. Asset-backed securities are financial securities collateralized by a pool of assets including loans, leases, credit card debt, royalties, or receivables. Tranches are portions of debt or securities that have been designed to divide risk or group characteristics so that they can be marketable to different investors.
What Is a Subordination Agreement?  

A subordination agreement is a legal document that establishes one debt as ranking behind another in priority for collecting repayment from a debtor. The priority of debts can become extremely important when a debtor defaults on their payments or declares bankruptcy. The higher a debt's priority, the more likely it is to be repaid, at least in part.





Key Takeaways

A subordination agreement prioritizes debts, ranking one behind another for purposes of collecting repayment from a debtor in the event of foreclosure or bankruptcy.A second-in-line creditor collects only when and if the priority creditor has been fully paid.Subordinated, or junior, debts are riskier than senior debts, so lenders typically require a higher interest rate or other compensation for taking on this added risk.Subordination agreements are often employed when multiple mortgages exist against one property.


   How a Subordination Agreement Works  

Individuals and businesses turn to lending institutions when they need to borrow funds, and they may take on a variety of debts for a variety of purposes. If they declare bankruptcy, there may not be enough money to repay all of their creditors. When that happens, a trustee appointed by the court will attempt to repay as much of the debt as possible, starting with the debts that have the highest priority. Those are often referred to as senior debt.



Lower on the priority list are obligations classified as junior debt or subordinated debt.



Lenders of senior debts have a legal right to be repaid in full before lenders of subordinated debts receive anything. As a result, the lenders with lower priority debts might receive only partial repayment or none at all.



When a lender accepts a subordination agreement, it acknowledges in advance that another party’s claim or interest will take precedence over its own in the event that the borrower's assets must be liquidated to repay the debts.



Why would any lender agree to that? One reason is that they may receive a higher interest rate from the borrower in return for taking on the greater risk. They may also receive fees.






A subordination agreement must be signed and acknowledged by a notary and recorded in the official records of the county to be enforceable.


   Examples of Subordination  

Subordination can come into play when either a business or individual declares bankruptcy.



In the case of a business, suppose a public company has $670,000 in senior debt, $460,000 in subordinated debt, and total assets with a value of $900,000. The business files for Chapter 7 bankruptcy and its assets are liquidated at market value—$900,000.



The senior debt holders will be paid in full, and the remaining $230,000 will be distributed among the subordinated debt holders, for cents on the dollar. Those may include investors who own any bonds the company had issued earlier. An exception would be secured bonds, which entitle to lender to claim whatever collateral was used to back them.



Stockholders in the company would most likely receive nothing in the liquidation process because stockholders are last in line—subordinate to all other types of creditors.



When a individual declares bankruptcy, their obligations will also be paid off in a specified order. For example, alimony and child support are among the items at the top of the list. The person's senior debts would be paid off ahead of any junior or subordinated debts.



Individuals most often encounter the concept of subordination, and subordination agreements, with mortgages. Suppose a person has both an original mortgage a home equity line of credit (HELOC) on the same property. Both lenders will have liens on the home, but the mortgage will have the first lien (and first claim on the collateral) because it came first. The HELOC lender will have a second lien, putting it in a subordinate position. In the event of a foreclosure, the mortgage lender would be paid back first.



Now, suppose the homeowner decides to take out a new mortgage to refinance the old one. When the old mortgage is paid off, the HELOC would normally move up into the first lien position because it is now the older debt. However, the lender of the new mortgage may not agree to those terms and instead insist that the HELOC lender accept a subordination agreement. The HELOC lender may do so in return for a fee, as is most likely outlined in the terms of its contract with the homeowner. It also has the option to refuse, in which case the deal may fall through.




What Is Chapter 7 Bankruptcy?
In a Chapter 7 bankruptcy, the debtor's assets (except for some that are considered exempt) will be sold off, and the proceeds will be used to pay their creditors to the extent possible. Both businesses and individuals can file for Chapter 7 bankruptcy. It is sometimes referred to as a liquidation bankruptcy.




What Is a Chapter 11 Bankruptcy?
Chapter 11 bankruptcy is typically used by businesses. Rather than have their assets liquidated and go out of business, as in a Chapter 7 bankruptcy, Chapter 11 allows them to reorganize under a court-appointed trustee's supervision and continue to operate. At the same time they must agree to a plan to repay their creditors, typically over a period of several years.




What Is a Chapter 13 Bankruptcy?
A Chapter 13 bankruptcy for individuals is similar to Chapter 11 for companies. Rather than liquidating most of an individual's assets, like Chapter 7, a Chapter 13 bankruptcy allows them to keep more assets if they agree to, and adhere to, a court-approved plan to repay their creditors.


   The Bottom Line  

Subordination agreements are used to legally establish the order in which debts are to be repaid in the event of a foreclosure or bankruptcy. In return for the agreement, the lender with the subordinated debt will be compensated in some manner for the additional risk. Consumers will often encounter a subordinated debt agreement if they have more than one mortgage on their home and decide to refinance it.
What Is a Subprime Loan?  

A subprime loan is a type of loan offered at a rate above prime to individuals who do not qualify for prime-rate loans. Quite often subprime borrowers have been turned down by traditional lenders because of their low credit ratings or other factors that suggest they have a reasonable chance of defaulting on the debt repayment.





Key Takeaways

Subprime loans have interest rates that are higher than the prime rate.Subprime borrowers generally have low credit ratings or are people who are perceived of as likely to default on a loan.Subprime interest rates can vary among lenders, so it’s a good idea to shop around before choosing one.


   How a Subprime Loan Works  

When banks lend each other money in the middle of the night to cover their reserve requirements, they charge each other the prime rate, an interest rate based on the federal funds rate established by the Federal Open Market Committee of the Federal Reserve Bank. As the Fed's website explains it, "Although the Federal Reserve has no direct role in setting the prime rate, many banks choose to set their prime rates based partly on the target level of the federal funds rate—the rate that banks charge each other for short-term loans—established by the Federal Open Market Committee."﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿



The prime rate has fluctuated from a low of 2% in the 1940s to a high of 21.5% in the 1980s.﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿ At its March 15, 2020, Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting, the Federal Reserve lowered the target range for the Fed Funds Rate to 0%–0.25%.﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿ This action was the result of the Federal Reserve's efforts to combat the economic repercussions of the COVID-19 pandemic. Since the 1990s, the prime rate has typically been set to 300 basis points above the fed funds rate, translating to a prime rate of 3.25% based on the Fed's latest action, as of this writing.﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿





4.25%

The U.S. prime rate in March, 2020﻿﻿﻿



The prime rate plays a large role in determining the interest that banks charge their borrowers. Traditionally, corporations and other financial institutions receive rates equal or very close to the prime rate. Retail customers with good credit and strong credit histories who take out mortgages, small business loans, and car loans receive rates slightly higher than, but based on, the prime rate. Applicants with low credit scores or other risk factors are offered rates by lenders that are significantly higher than the prime rate—hence the term “subprime loan.”



The specific amount of interest charged on a subprime loan is not set in stone. Different lenders may not evaluate a borrower’s risk in the same manner. This means a subprime loan borrower has an opportunity to save some money by shopping around. Still, by definition, all subprime loan rates are higher than the prime rate.



Also, borrowers might accidentally stumble into the subprime lending market by, for example, responding to an advertisement for mortgages when they actually qualify for a better rate than they are offered when they follow up on the ad. Borrowers should always check to see whether they qualify for a better rate than the one they are originally offered.






The higher interest rates on subprime loans can translate into tens of thousands of dollars in additional interest payments over the life of a loan.


   Special Considerations for Subprime Loans  

On large term loans, such as mortgages, the additional percentage points of interest often translate to tens of thousands of dollars’ worth of extra interest payments over the life of the loan. This can make paying off subprime loans difficult for low-income borrowers, as it did in the late 2000s. In 2007 high numbers of borrowers holding subprime mortgages began to default. Ultimately, this subprime meltdown was a significant contributor to the financial crisis and the ensuing Great Recession.﻿﻿ As a result, a number of big banks got out of the subprime lending business. More recently, though, this has started to change.



While any financial institution could offer a loan with subprime rates, there are lenders that focus on subprime loans with high rates. Arguably, these lenders give borrowers who have trouble getting low interest rates the ability to access capital to invest, grow their businesses, or buy homes.



Subprime lending is often considered to be predatory lending, which is the practice of giving borrowers loans with unreasonable rates and locking them into debt or increasing their likelihood of defaulting. Nevertheless, getting a subprime loan may be a sensible option if the loan is meant to pay off debts with higher interest rates, such as credit cards, or if the borrower has no other means of obtaining credit.
What Is a Subprime Mortgage?  

A subprime mortgage is one that’s normally issued to borrowers with low credit ratings. A prime conventional mortgage isn’t offered, because the lender views the borrower as having a greater-than-average risk of defaulting on the loan.



Lending institutions often charge interest on subprime mortgages at a much higher rate than on prime mortgages to compensate for carrying more risk. These are often adjustable-rate mortgages (ARMs) as well, so the interest rate can potentially increase at specified points in time.





Key Takeaways

“Subprime” refers to the below-average credit score of the individual taking out the mortgage, indicating that they might be a credit risk.The interest rate associated with a subprime mortgage is usually high to compensate lenders for taking the risk that the borrower will default on the loan.These borrowers typically have credit scores below 620 along with other negative information in their credit reports.The 2008 financial crisis has been blamed in large part on the proliferation of subprime mortgages offered to unqualified buyers in the years leading up to the meltdown.New mortgages to subprime borrowers have restrictions placed on them and must be properly underwritten.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Understanding Subprime Mortgages  

“Subprime” doesn’t refer to the interest rates often attached to these mortgages, but rather the credit score of the individual taking out the mortgage. Borrowers with FICO credit scores below 620 will often be stuck with subprime mortgages and their corresponding higher interest rates.



It can be useful for people with low credit scores to wait for a period of time and build up their credit histories before applying for a mortgage, so they might qualify for a prime loan.



The interest rate associated with a subprime mortgage is dependent on four factors: credit score, the size of the down payment, the number of late payment delinquencies on a borrower’s credit report, and the types of delinquencies found on the report. A mortgage calculator is a good resource to see how different interest rates would affect a monthly payment.










Different lenders will use different rules for what constitutes a subprime loan, but FICO scores below 640, 620, or 600 have typically been classified as subprime cut-offs in the past. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau classifies credit scores between 619 and 580 as subprime.


   Subprime Mortgages vs. Prime Mortgages  

Mortgage applicants are typically graded from A to F, with A scores going to those with exemplary credit, and F scores going to those with no discernible ability to repay a loan at all. Prime mortgages go to A and B candidates, whereas lower-rated candidates must typically resign themselves to subprime loans if they’re going to get loans at all.






Lenders aren’t legally obligated to offer you the best available mortgage terms or even let you know that they’re available, so consider applying for a prime mortgage first to find out if you do indeed qualify.


   Role in the 2008 Housing Market Crash  

The 2008 housing market crash was due in large part to widespread defaults on subprime mortgages. Many borrowers were given what were known as NINJA loans, an acronym derived from the phrase “no income, no job, and no assets.”



These mortgages were often issued with no down payment required, and proof of income was not necessary either. A buyer might state earnings of $150,000 a year but did not have to provide documentation to substantiate the claim.



These borrowers then found themselves underwater in a declining housing market, with their home values lower than the mortgage they owed. Many of these NINJA borrowers defaulted because the interest rates associated with the loans were “teaser rates,” variable rates that started low and ballooned over time, making it very hard to pay down the principal of the mortgage.



Even after the financial crash, subprime mortgages didn't go away. Wells Fargo began offering mortgages to individuals with credit ratings in the low 600s again in 2014. The nonprofit, community advocacy, and homeownership organization Neighborhood Assistance Corporation of America continued its Achieve the Dream tour in 2018, hosting events nationwide to help people apply for “non-prime” loans, which are effectively the same as subprime mortgages.


   COVID-19 Mortgage Relief  

The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act, signed into law on March 27, 2020, provided some temporary relief to those who found themselves unable to make their mortgage payments due to the initial financial fallout from the coronavirus pandemic.



If backed by the federal government or an agency like Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae, mortgage lenders or loan servicers were not allowed to foreclose on homeowners until July 31, 2021. Additionally, those who experienced financial hardship due to the pandemic were able to request and obtain a loan forbearance for up to 180 days without penalty.



The American Rescue Plan (ARP) Act of 2021 signed by President Biden also provided additional support. The nearly $2 trillion coronavirus rescue package contained additional funding which provided relief to those behind on mortgages, rent, and utility bills. The legislation issued:



$21.55 billion for emergency rental assistance through Sept. 30, 2027$5 billion in emergency housing vouchers through Sept. 30, 2030$750 million for tribal housing$100 million for rural housing$5 billion to assist people experiencing homelessness






Homeowners in need of assistance with mortgage payments should consult the National Low Income Housing Coalition's website, which provides a searchable list of all the programs currently available.




What Does a Subprime Loan Mean?
A subprime loan is a type of loan offered at a rate above prime to individuals who do not qualify for prime-rate loans. Quite often, subprime borrowers have been turned down by traditional lenders because of their low credit ratings or other factors that suggest they have a reasonable chance of defaulting on the debt repayment.




What Is the Difference Between a Prime Loan and a Subprime Loan?
Because subprime borrowers are riskier, they carry higher interest rates than prime loans. The specific amount of interest charged on a subprime loan is not set in stone. Different lenders may not evaluate a borrower’s risk in the same manner. This means a subprime loan borrower has an opportunity to save some money by shopping around. Still, by definition, all subprime loan rates are higher than the prime rate.




Who Offers Subprime Mortgages?
While any financial institution could offer a loan with subprime rates, there are lenders that focus on subprime loans with high rates. Arguably, these lenders give borrowers who have trouble getting low-interest rates the ability to access capital to invest, grow their businesses, or buy homes. At the same time, the higher interest rates on subprime loans can translate into tens of thousands of dollars in additional interest payments over the life of a loan.




What Are the Drawbacks of Subprime Loans?
For borrowers, the higher interest rates will mean a costlier loan over time, which may be harder to service for a borrower who already has financial troubles. On a systemic level, defaults on subprime loans have been identified as a key factor in the 2008-09 financial crisis.Lenders are often seen as the biggest culprits, freely granting loans to people who couldn't afford them because of free-flowing capital following the dot-com bubble of the early 2000s. Still, borrowers that bought homes they truly could not afford contributed as well.




Did Subprime Lending Cause the 2008-09 Financial Crisis?
Most experts agree that subprime mortgages were an important part of the financial crisis. When it comes to the subprime mortgage part of the crisis, there was no single entity or individual at whom one could point the finger. Instead, this crisis involved the interplay between the world's central banks, homeowners, lenders, credit rating agencies, underwriters, and investors.


   The Bottom Line  

Subprime mortgages are mortgages offered to borrowers with low credit ratings. Subprime mortgages are viewed as a greater risk to the lender and, therefore, come with higher interest rates. Depending on the personal situation of the borrower, it may be beneficial to wait till their credit score improves before taking out a mortgage so that they may obtain better interest rates.
What Is Subrogation?  

Subrogation is a term describing a right held by most insurance carriers to legally pursue a third party that caused an insurance loss to the insured. This is done in order to recover the amount of the claim paid by the insurance carrier to the insured for the loss.





Key Takeaways

Subrogation is a term describing a legal right held by most insurance carriers to legally pursue a third party that caused an insurance loss to the insured. Generally, in most subrogation cases, an individual’s insurance company pays its client’s claim for losses directly, then seeks reimbursement from the other party's insurance company.Subrogation is most common in an auto insurance policy but also occurs in property/casualty and healthcare policy claims.Subrogation allows the at-fault party's insurer to reimburse the victim's insurance company.That insurance company will then reimburse the insured, along with any deductibles paid.


   Understanding Subrogation  

Subrogation literally refers to the act of one person or party standing in the place of another person or party. It effectively defines the rights of the insurance company both before and after it has paid claims made against a policy. Also, it makes easier the process of obtaining a settlement under an insurance policy.



When an insurance company pursues a third party for damages, it is said to "step into the shoes of the policyholder," and thus will have the same rights and legal standing as the policyholder when seeking compensation for losses. If the insured party does not have the legal standing to sue the third party, the insurer will also be unable to pursue a lawsuit as a result.


   How Subrogation Works  

In most cases, an individual’s insurance company pays its client’s claim for losses directly, then seeks reimbursement from the other party, or their insurance company. In such cases, the insured receives prompt payment, and then the insurance company may pursue a subrogation claim against the party at fault for the loss.



Insurance policies may contain language that entitles an insurer, once losses are paid on claims, to seek recovery of funds from a third party if that third party caused the loss. The insured does not have the right to file a claim with the insurer to receive the coverage outlined in the insurance policy or to seek damages from the third party that caused the losses.



Subrogation in the insurance sector, especially among auto insurance policies, occurs when the insurance carrier takes on the financial burden of the insured as the result of an injury or accident payment and seeks repayment from the at-fault party.


   Example of Subrogation  

One example of subrogation is when an insured driver's car is totaled through the fault of another driver. The insurance carrier reimburses the covered driver under the terms of the policy and then pursues legal action against the driver at fault. If the carrier is successful, it must divide the amount recovered after expenses proportionately with the insured to repay any deductible paid by the insured.



Subrogation is not only relegated to auto insurers and auto policyholders. Another possibility of subrogation occurs within the health care sector. If, for example, a health insurance policyholder is injured in an accident and the insurer pays $20,000 to cover the medical bills, that same health insurance company is allowed to collect $20,000 from the at-fault party to reconcile the payment.


   Subrogation Process for the Insured  

Luckily for policyholders, the subrogation process is very passive for the victim of an accident from the fault of another party. The subrogation process is meant to protect insured parties; the insurance companies of the two parties involved work to mediate and legally come to a conclusion over the payment.



Policyholders are simply covered by their insurance company and can act accordingly. It benefits the insured in that the at-fault party must make a payment during subrogation to the insurer, which helps keep the policyholder's insurance rates low.



In the case of an accident, it is still important to stay in communication with the insurance company. Make sure all accidents are reported to the insurer in a timely manner and let the insurer know if there should be any settlement or legal action. If a settlement occurs outside of the normal subrogation process between the two parties in a court of law, it is often legally impossible for the insurer to pursue subrogation against the at-fault party. This is due to the fact most settlements include a waiver of subrogation.


   Benefits of Subrogation  

In insurance, subrogation allows your insurer to recover the costs associated with a claim, such as medical bills, repairs costs, and your deductible, from the at-fault party's insurer (assuming you were not at-fault). This means that both you and your insurer can recoup the costs of damage or harm caused by somebody else.



It also means improved loss ratios and profits for your insurer.


   Waivers of Subrogation  

A waiver of subrogation is a contractual provision whereby an insured waives the right of their insurance carrier to seek redress or seek compensation for losses from a negligent third party. Typically, insurers charge an additional fee for this special policy endorsement. Many construction contracts and leases include a waiver of the subrogation clause.



Such provisions prevent one party’s insurance carrier from pursuing a claim against the other contractual party in an attempt to recover money paid by the insurance company to the insured or to a third party to resolve a covered claim. In other words, if subrogation is waived, the insurance company cannot "step into the client's shoes" once a claim has been settled and sue the other party to recoup their losses. Thus, if subrogation is waived, the insurer is exposed to greater risk.




Does Subrogation Affect the Insured Victim?
The subrogation process, which is meant to protect insured parties, is very passive for the insured victim of an accident from the fault of another insured party. The insurance companies of the two parties involved work to mediate and legally come to a conclusion over the payment. Policyholders are simply covered by their insurance company and can act accordingly. It benefits the insured in that the at-fault party must make a payment during subrogation to the insurer, which helps keep the policyholder's insurance rates low.




What is a Waiver of Subrogation?
A waiver of subrogation is a contractual provision whereby an insured party waives the right of their insurance carrier to seek redress or seek compensation for losses from a negligent third party.Typically, insurers charge an additional fee for this special policy endorsement. Many construction contracts and leases include a waiver of the subrogation clause. This prevents the insurance company from "stepping into the client's shoes" once a claim has been settled and suing the other party to recoup their losses. Thus, if subrogation is waived, the insurer is exposed to greater risk.




What Is the Broad Legal Definition of Subrogation?
Subrogation, in the legal context, refers to when one party takes on the legal rights of another, especially substituting one creditor for another. Subrogation can also occur when one party takes over another's right to sue.
What Is a Subscription Agreement?  

A subscription agreement is an investor's application to join a limited partnership (LP). It is also a two-way guarantee between a company and a new shareholder (subscriber). The company agrees to sell a certain number of shares at a specific price and, in return, the subscriber promises to buy the shares at the predetermined price. 





Key Takeaways

A subscription agreement is an agreement that defines the terms for a party's investment into a private placement offering or a limited partnership (LP).Rules for subscription agreements are generally defined in SEC Rule 506(b) and 506(c) of Regulation D.Regulation D lets companies doing specific types of private placements raise capital without needing to register the securities with the SEC.


   Understanding Subscription Agreements  

Broadly defined, a partnership is a business agreement between two or more people who all have personal ownership in the business. The partnership entity does not pay taxes. Instead, the profits and losses flow through to each partner. Partners will pay taxes on their distributive share of the partnership's taxable income based on a partner agreement. Law firms and accounting firms are often formed as general partnerships.



In a LP, a general partner manages the partnership entity and brings in limited partners using a subscription agreement. Candidates subscribe to become limited partners. After meeting standard requirements, the general partner decides whether to accept the candidate.



Limited partners act as silent partners by providing capital, usually a one-time investment, and have no material participation in the business's operations. As a result, partners typically have little to no voice in the day-to-day operations of the partnership and are exposed to less risk than full partners. 



Each limited partner's exposure to business losses is limited to that partner's original investment. The subscription agreement for joining the LP describes the investment experience, sophistication, and net worth of the potential limited partner.


  How Subscription Agreements Are Regulated  

Subscription agreements are generally covered by SEC Rules 506(b) and 506(c) of Regulation D. These stipulations define the method of conducting an offering and the amount of material information that companies are required to disclose to investors.



As new limited partners are added to an offering, general partners obtain the consent of existing partners before amending the subscription agreement. Raising capital through a Reg D investment involves meeting significantly less onerous requirements than a public offering. This allows companies to save time and sell securities that they might not otherwise be able to issue in some cases.


   Subscription Agreements With Private Placements  

When a company wishes to raise capital, it will often issue shares of stock for purchase by either the general public or through a private placement. The primary disclosure form for potential general public investors is a prospectus. The prospectus is a disclosure document listing information about the business and its underlying security.



A private placement is a sale of stock to a limited number of accredited investors who meet specific criteria. The criteria for accredited status include having a particular level of investment experience, assets, and net worth. Investors will receive a private placement memorandum as an alternative to the prospectus. The memorandum provides a less comprehensive description of the investment.



In many cases, a subscription agreement accompanies the memorandum. Some agreements outline a specific rate of return that will be paid to the investor, such as a particular percentage of company net income or lump sum payments.



Also, the agreement will define the payment dates for these returns. This structure gives priority to the investor, as they earn a rate of return on the investment before company founders or other minority owners.
What Is a Subsidiary?  

In the corporate world, a subsidiary is a company that belongs to another company, which is usually referred to as the parent company or holding company. The parent holds a controlling interest in the subsidiary company, meaning it owns or controls more than half of its stock. In cases where a subsidiary is 100% owned by another company, the subsidiary is referred to as a wholly owned subsidiary.





Key Takeaways

A subsidiary is a company that is more than 50% owned by a parent company or holding company.Subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities from their parent companies.Companies buy or establish a subsidiary to obtain specific synergies or assets, secure tax advantages, and contain or limit losses.Shareholder approval is not required to turn a company into a subsidiary or to sell a subsidiary.A subsidiary's financials are reported on the parent's consolidated financial statements.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   How Subsidiaries Work  

Subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities from their parent companies, which is reflected in the independence of their liabilities, taxation, and governance. If a parent company owns a subsidiary in a foreign land, the subsidiary must follow the laws of the country where it is incorporated and operates.



However, given their controlling interest, parent companies often have considerable influence over their subsidiaries. They—along with other subsidiary shareholders, if any—vote to elect a subsidiary company's board of directors, and there may often be a board-member overlap between a subsidiary and its parent company.






To be designated a subsidiary, at least 50% of a company's equity has to be controlled by another entity. Anything less, and the company is considered an associate or affiliate company.


   Subsidiary Financials  

A subsidiary usually prepares independent financial statements. Typically, these are sent to the parent, which will aggregate them—as it does financials from all of its operations—and carry them on its consolidated financial statements. In contrast, an associate company's financials are not combined with the parent's. Instead, the parent registers the value of its stake in the associate as an asset on its balance sheet.



Accounting standards generally require that public companies consolidate all majority-owned subsidiaries. Consolidation is viewed as a more meaningful method of accounting than providing separate financials for a parent company and each of its subsidiaries.



An unconsolidated subsidiary is a subsidiary with financials that are not included in its parent company's statements. Ownership of unconsolidated subsidiaries is typically treated as an equity investment and denoted as an asset on the parent company's balance sheet. For regulatory reasons, unconsolidated subsidiaries are generally those in which a parent company does not have a significant stake.






The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) states that only in rare cases, such as when a subsidiary is undergoing bankruptcy, should a majority-owned subsidiary not be consolidated.


   Subsidiary Pros and Cons  

Buying an interest in a subsidiary usually requires a smaller investment on the part of the parent company than a merger would. Also unlike a merger, shareholder approval is not required to purchase or sell a subsidiary.



A parent company buys or establishes a subsidiary to obtain specific synergies, such as a more diversified product line or assets in the form of earnings, equipment, or property. Subsidiaries can be the experimental ground for different organizational structures, manufacturing techniques, and types of products.



In addition, subsidiaries can contain and limit problems for a parent company to some extent, with the subsidiary serving as a kind of liability shield in the event of lawsuits. Entertainment companies often set up individual movies or TV shows as separate subsidiaries for this reason.



However, subsidiaries also have a few drawbacks. Aggregating and consolidating a subsidiary's financials can make the parent company's accounting more complicated.



Since subsidiaries must remain independent to some degree, transactions with the parent may have to be "at arm's length," and the parent might not have all of the control it wishes. And while a subsidiary can help shield the parent company from certain legal problems, the parent may still be liable for criminal actions or corporate malfeasance by the subsidiary. Finally, it may have to guarantee the subsidiary's loans, leaving it exposed to financial losses.





Pros

Contained/limited losses
Potential tax advantages
Easier to establish and sell
Synergy with other corporate divisions, subsidiaries



Cons

Extra legal and accounting work
Greater bureaucracy
Complex financial statements
Liability for subsidiary's actions, debts





   Real World Examples of Subsidiaries   

Public companies are required by the SEC to disclose significant subsidiaries. Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Inc., for example, has a long and diverse list of subsidiary companies, including International Dairy Queen, Clayton Homes, Business Wire, GEICO, and Helzberg Diamonds.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



Berkshire Hathaway's acquisition of many diverse businesses follows Buffett's oft-discussed strategy of buying undervalued assets and holding onto them. In return, acquired subsidiaries can often continue to operate independently while gaining access to broader financial resources. 



Like Berkshire Hathaway, Alphabet Inc. has many subsidiaries, the best known of which is Google. These separate business entities all perform unique operations intended to add value to Alphabet through diversification, revenue, earnings, and research and development (R&D).



For example, Sidewalk Labs seeks to modernize public transit in the United States. The company has developed a public transportation management system that aggregates millions of data points from smartphones, cars, and Wi-Fi hotspots to analyze and predict where traffic and commuters are most congregated. The system can redirect public transportation resources, such as buses, to these congested areas to keep the public transit system moving efficiently.




Is a Subsidiary Its Own Company?
Yes. A subsidiary is independent, operating as a separate and distinct entity from its parent company. That said, the parent company, as a majority owner, can influence how its subsidiary is run and may be liable, for example, for the subsidiary's negligence and debt.




Does a Subsidiary Have Its Own CEO?
As a subsidiary functions as a separate entity, it usually has its own management team and CEO. However, the parent company will get a significant say in who runs the company and who sits on its board of directors.




What Are Sister Companies?
Two or more subsidiaries majority owned by the same parent company are called sister companies.


   The Bottom Line  

A subsidiary is a company that is completely or partially owned by another company. Acquiring and establishing subsidiaries is fairly common among publicly traded companies, especially in industries like tech and real estate. The advantages of these business structures include tax benefits, reduced risk, increased efficiencies, and diversification. Drawbacks include limited control and greater bureaucracy and legal costs.
What Is a Subsidy?  

A subsidy is a benefit given to an individual, business, or institution, usually by the government. It can be direct (such as cash payments) or indirect (such as tax breaks). The subsidy is typically given to remove some type of burden, and it is often considered to be in the overall interest of the public, given to promote a social good or an economic policy.





Key Takeaways

A subsidy is a direct or indirect payment to individuals or firms, usually in the form of a cash payment from the government or a targeted tax cut.In economic theory, subsidies can be used to offset market failures and externalities to achieve greater economic efficiency.However, critics of subsidies point to problems with calculating optimal subsidies, overcoming unseen costs, and preventing political incentives from making subsidies more burdensome than they are beneficial.












Investopedia / Xiaojie Liu


   How a Subsidy Works  

A subsidy is generally some form of payment—provided directly or indirectly—to the receiving individual or business entity. Subsidies are generally seen as a privileged type of financial aid, as they lessen an associated burden that was previously levied against the receiver or promote a particular action by providing financial support.



Subsidies have an opportunity cost. Consider the Great Depression-era agricultural subsidy described later in this story: It had very visible effects, and farmers saw profits rise and hired more workers. The invisible costs included what would have happened with all of those dollars without the subsidy. Money from the subsidies had to be taxed from individual income, and consumers were hit again when they faced higher food prices at the grocery store.


   Types of Subsidies  

A subsidy typically supports particular sectors of a nation’s economy. It can assist struggling industries by lowering the burdens placed on them or encourage new developments by providing financial support for the endeavors. Often, these areas are not being effectively supported through the actions of the general economy or may be undercut by activities in rival economies.


  Direct vs. Indirect Subsidies  

Direct subsidies are those that involve an actual payment of funds toward a particular individual, group, or industry. Indirect subsidies are those that do not hold a predetermined monetary value or involve actual cash outlays. They can include activities such as price reductions for required goods or services that can be government-supported. This allows the needed items to be purchased below the current market rate, resulting in savings for those whom the subsidy is designed to help.


  Government Subsidies  

There are many forms of subsidies given out by the government. Two of the most common types of individual subsidies are welfare payments and unemployment benefits. The objective of these types of subsidies is to help people who are temporarily suffering economically. Other subsidies, such as subsidized interest rates on student loans, are given to encourage people to further their education. 



With the enactment of the Affordable Care Act (ACA), some U.S. families became eligible for subsidies, based on household income and size. These subsidies are designed to lower the out-of-pocket costs for insurance premiums. In these instances, the funds associated with the subsidies are sent directly to the insurance company to which premiums are due, lowering the payment amount required from the household.



Subsidies to businesses are given to support an industry that is struggling against international competition that has lowered prices, such that the domestic business is not profitable without the subsidy. Historically, the vast majority of subsidies in the United States have gone toward four industries: agriculture, financial institutions, oil companies, and utility companies.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Subsidies  

Different rationales exist for the provision of public subsidies. Some are economic, some are political, and some come from socioeconomic development theory. Development theory suggests that some industries need protection from external competition to maximize domestic benefit.



Technically speaking, a free market economy is free of subsidies; introducing one transforms it into a mixed economy. Economists and policymakers often debate the merits of subsidies and, by extension, the degree to which an economy should be mixed.


  Advantages  

Pro-subsidy economists argue that subsidies to particular industries are vital to helping support businesses and the jobs that they create. Economists who promote a mixed economy often argue that subsidies are justifiable to provide the socially optimal level of goods and services, which will lead to economic efficiency.



In contemporary neoclassical economic models, there are circumstances where the actual supply of a good or service falls below the theoretical equilibrium level—an unwanted shortage, which creates what economists call a market failure.



One form of correcting this imbalance is to subsidize the good or service being undersupplied. The subsidy lowers the cost for the producers to bring the good or service to market. If the right level of subsidization is provided, all other things being equal, then the market failure should be corrected.



In other words, according to general equilibrium theory, subsidies are necessary when a market failure causes too little production in a specific area. They would theoretically push production back up to optimal levels.






Some theories of development argue that the governments of less-developed countries should subsidize domestic industries in their infancy to protect them from international competition. This is a popular technique seen in China and various South American nations at present.



Some say goods or services provide what economists call positive externalities. A positive externality is achieved whenever an economic activity provides an indirect benefit to a third party.



However, because the third party does not directly enter into the decision, the activity will only occur to the extent that it directly benefits those directly involved, leaving potential social gains on the table.



Many subsidies are implemented to encourage activities that produce positive externalities that might not otherwise be provided at the socially optimal threshold. The counterpart of this kind of subsidy is to tax activities that produce negative externalities.


  Disadvantages  

Meanwhile, other economists feel free market forces should determine if a business survives or fails. If it fails, those resources are allocated to more efficient and profitable use. They argue that subsidies to these businesses simply sustain an inefficient allocation of resources.



Free market economists are wary of subsidies for a variety of reasons. Some argue that subsidies unnecessarily distort markets, preventing efficient outcomes and diverting resources from more productive uses to less productive ones.



Similar concerns come from those who suggest that economic calculation is too inexact and that microeconomic models are too unrealistic to ever correctly calculate the impact of market failure. Others suggest that government spending on subsidies is never as effective as government projections claim it will be. The costs and unintended consequences of applying subsidies are rarely worth it, they claim.



Another problem, antagonists point out, is that the act of subsidizing helps corrupt the political process. According to political theories of regulatory capture and rent seeking, subsidies exist as part of an unholy alliance between big business and the state. Companies often turn to the government to shield themselves from the competition. In turn, businesses donate to politicians or promise them benefits after their political careers.



Even if a subsidy is created with good intentions, without any conspiracy or self-seeking, it raises the profits of those receiving beneficial treatment, thus creating an incentive to lobby for its continuance, even after the need or its usefulness runs out. This potentially allows political and business interests to create a mutual benefit at the expense of taxpayers and/or competitive firms or industries.


   The Politics of Subsidies  

There are a few different ways to evaluate the success of government subsidies. Most economists consider a subsidy a failure if it fails to improve the overall economy. However, policymakers might still consider it a success if it helps achieve a different objective. Most subsidies are long-term failures in the economic sense but still achieve cultural or political goals.



An example of these competing evaluations could be seen in the Great Depression. Presidents Herbert Hoover and Franklin D. Roosevelt both set price floors on agricultural products and paid farmers to not produce. Their policy goal was to stop food prices from falling and to protect small farmers. To this extent, the subsidy was a success.



But the economic effect was quite different. Artificially high food prices lowered the standard of living for consumers and forced people to spend more on food than they otherwise would have. Those outside of the farm industry were worse off in absolute economic terms.



Sometimes subsidies may appear to have run their course or continue to create an artificial market, but there are other factors that keep them in place. Production subsidies by G-20 countries averaged $290 billion per year from 2017 to 2019, with 95% going toward oil and gas. Meanwhile, 2019 global consumption subsidies were $320 billion, driven largely by oil and gas.



The combination of production and consumption subsidies in the oil and gas industry creates overconsumption by artificially lowering the price of fossil fuels; however, these subsidies (on both the production and consumption sides) have lots of political and systemic support and pushback from consumer and energy companies that would be impacted if reform did happen.



In terms of a pragmatic political economy, a subsidy is successful from the point of view of its proponents if it succeeds in transferring wealth to its beneficiaries and contributing to the reelection of its political backers.



The strongest advocates of subsidies tend to be those who directly or indirectly gain from them, and the political incentive to “bring home the bacon” to secure support from special interests is a powerful lure for politicians and policymakers.




What Is the Difference Between Direct and Indirect Subsidies?
Direct subsidies are those that involve an actual payment of funds toward a particular individual, group, or industry. Indirect subsidies are those that do not hold a predetermined monetary value or involve actual cash outlays. These can include activities such as price reductions for required goods or services that can be government-supported.




What Is the Position of Subsidy Advocates?
Subsidies exist in mixed economies. Proponents argue that subsidies to particular industries are vital to helping support businesses and the jobs that they create. Proponents further contend that subsidies are justifiable to provide the socially optimal level of goods and services, which will lead to economic efficiency.




What Is the Position of Subsidy Opponents?
Technically speaking, a free market economy is free of subsidies. Subsidy opponents feel free market forces should determine if a business survives or fails. If it fails, those resources will be allocated to more efficient and profitable use. Opponents argue that subsidies unnecessarily distort markets, preventing efficient outcomes as resources are diverted from more productive uses to less productive ones.


   The Bottom Line  

A subsidy given to an individual, business, or institution—usually by the government—can be direct or indirect. They can assist struggling industries, encourage new developments, and promote a social good or policy. Sometimes by helping one sector or group in the economy, they hurt another group, such as a subsidy that helps farmers but increases food prices for consumers. Or they can fail economically but achieve cultural or political goals.
What Is Substantially Equal Periodic Payment (SEPP)?  

Substantially Equal Periodic Payment (SEPP) is a method of distributing funds from an individual retirement account (IRA) or other qualified retirement plans (unless you still work for your employer) prior to the age of 59½ that avoids incurring IRS penalties for the withdrawals. Typically, an individual who removes assets from a plan prior to that age will pay an early withdrawal penalty of 10% of the distributed amount.



Funds in SEPP plans are withdrawn penalty-free through specified annual distributions for a period of five years or until the account holder turns 59½, whichever comes later. Income tax must still be paid on the withdrawals.





Key Takeaways

A SEPP plan allows you to withdraw funds without penalty from a retirement account before you turn 59½.SEPP plans can be used with any qualified plans with the exception of a 401(k) that is held at a current employer.The amount you withdraw every year is determined by formulas set out by the IRS.A SEPP plan is best suited to those who need a steady stream of pre-retirement income, perhaps to compensate for a career that ended sooner than anticipated.You'll have to pay all the penalties it allowed you to avoid if you quit the SEPP plan before it concludes plus interest on those amounts.


   How Substantially Equal Periodic Payment (SEPP) Plans Work  

You can use any qualified retirement account with a SEPP plan, with the exception of a 401(k) you hold at your current employer. You set up the SEPP arrangement through a financial advisor or directly with an institution.



At the outset, you must choose among three Internal Revenue Service (IRS)-approved methods for calculating your distributions from a SEPP:



Amortization
Annuitization
Required minimum distribution (RMD)



Each will result in a different calculated annual distribution. The amount you withdraw will be pre-determined and unchanged every year, at least with two of the three options.



The IRS advises individuals to select the method that best supports their financial situations. You're permitted to change the method you use once within the lifetime of the plan. Should you cancel the plan before the minimum holding period expires, you will have to pay the IRS all penalties it waived on the plan's distributions, plus interest.


   How to Calculate Substantially Equal Periodic Payment (SEPP) Plan Withdrawals  

As noted above, there are three different methods approved by the IRS to determine withdrawals from your SEPP plan. We discuss them below in a little more detail.


  The Amortization Method  

Under the amortization method for calculating the SEPP plan's withdrawals, the annual payment is the same for each year of the program. It's determined by using the life expectancy of the taxpayer and his or her beneficiary, if applicable, and a chosen interest rate of not more than 120% of the federal mid-term rate, according to the IRS.


  The Annuatization Method  

As with the amortization method, the distribution you must take under the annuitization method is also the same each year. The amount is determined by using an annuity based on the taxpayer's age and the age of their beneficiary, if applicable, and a chosen interest rate, with the same IRS guidelines as with amortization. The annuity factor is derived using an IRS-provided mortality table.


  Required Minimum Distribution (RMD) and SEPP  

Using the RMD method, the annual payment for each year is determined by dividing the account balance by the life expectancy factor of the taxpayer and their beneficiary, if applicable. Under this method, the annual amount must be recalculated annually and, as a result, will change from year to year. It also generally results in lower annual withdrawals than the other methods.






Early withdrawals under substantially equal periodic payments are made possible under IRS Rule 72(t). The rule allows individual taxpayers with early access to their retirement accounts without incurring any penalties.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Substantially Equal Periodic Payment (SEPP) Plans  
  Advantages  

Using a SEPP plan can be a boon to those who wish or need to tap into retirement funds early. The plan can allow you a steady stream of income, penalty-free, in your 40s or 50s to help tide you over between the end of a career (and a regular paycheck) and the arrival of other retirement income.



At 59½, you can withdraw additional funds from your retirement accounts without penalty. By your late-60s, you'll qualify for full benefits from Social Security and perhaps a defined-benefit pension.



The restrictions for SEPP stay in place until the end of the payment term, which is the latter of five years or the IRA owner reaching age 59½. So, for example, an IRA owner that began SEPPs at age 40 would have to abide by the restrictions for almost 20 years. On the other hand, an IRA owner who begins SEPPs at age 58 would only have to continue until age 63. Importantly, this five-year time period is measured from the date of the first distribution and ends exactly five years from that date. It does not end after the fifth distribution is made.


  Disadvantages  

One of the drawbacks of the SEPP program is that it is relatively inflexible. Once you begin a SEPP plan, you must stay with it for the duration—which can potentially be decades if you begin the plan in your 30s or 40s.



During that time, you have little to no leeway to alter the amount you can withdraw from the fund each year. And quitting the plan is hardly an option, given the fact it imposes on you all the penalties you saved from launching it, plus interest. The same sanction may also apply should you miscalculate and fail to make the necessary withdrawals within any one year.



Starting a SEPP also has implications for your financial security later in retirement. Once you start a SEPP, you'll have to stop contributing to the plan it is tapping into, meaning its balance will not grow through further contributions. And by withdrawing funds early, you're also essentially foregoing the earnings they'll make later—along with the tax you'll save on those gains, which will compound tax-free within the account.





Pros

Provides steady stream of income before retirement
Withdrawals are penalty-free at 59½
Five-year period ends five years after the first distribution



Cons

Plan holders must stay within the plan until the duration, which makes them inflexible
The amount withdrawn can't be altered
Quitting the plan isn't an option
Account balance doesn't grow through further contributions







What Is a Substantially Equal Periodic Payment Program?
A substantially equal periodic payment program allows individual taxpayers to withdraw from their retirement accounts before they turn 59½ without facing any penalties. Withdrawals can be made from individual retirement accounts or employer-sponsored plans like a 401(k) as long as you are no longer employed with the company. Payments or distributions are made from the account either for five years or until you turn 59½—whichever comes later.




When Can I Start Making Withdrawals From a SEPP Plan?
You can begin making withdrawals from a SEPP plan before you turn 59½. Keep in mind, though, that you must take these payments in accordance with one of the three calculations set up by the IRS. These are the amortization, annuitization, and required minimum distribution methods. Each method leaves you with a different annual distribution. The method you choose should suit your own financial situation.




Can I Take SEPP Withdrawals From My 401(k)?
Yes and no. You can use make withdrawals from your 401(k) through a SEPP program if you are no longer employed with the company. As such, you cannot take any money from your account if you still work for the employer that sponsors the plan.




Are There Any Penalties Associated With SEPP Plans?
There are generally no penalties associated with SEPP plans. But you will be on the hook for penalties and interest if you decide to cancel the plan before you reach the minimum five-year holding period or before you turn 59½—whichever comes later.


   The Bottom Line  

There are rules in place to protect your retirement nest egg until you need it the most. As such, you can't make early withdrawals from your accounts without incurring penalties. But there are exceptions. Substantially equal periodic payment programs allow you to use your retirement accounts if an exceptional circumstance arises, such as an illness. But there are certain rules you must follow. The IRS has certain calculation methods you must use to determine your distributions and you must take these payments for a certain length of time. If you're unsure of how the program works or if it's right for your situation, be sure to consult a financial or retirement specialist.
What Is a Substitute?  

A substitute, or substitutable good, in economics and consumer theory refers to a product or service that consumers see as essentially the same or similar-enough to another product. Put simply, a substitute is a good that can be used in place of another.



Substitutes play an important part in the marketplace and are considered a benefit for consumers. They provide more choices for consumers, who are then better able to satisfy their needs. Bills of materials often include alternate parts that can replace the standard part if it's destroyed.





Key Takeaways

A substitute is a product or service that can be easily replaced with another by consumers.In economics, products are often substitutes if the demand for one product increases when the price of the other goes up.Substitutes provide choices and alternatives for consumers while creating competition and lower prices in the marketplace.












Investopedia / Xiaojie Liu


   Understanding Substitutes  

When consumers make buying decisions, substitutes provide them with alternatives. Substitutes occur when there are at least two products that can be used for the same purpose, such as an iPhone vs. an Android phone. For a product to be a substitute for another, it must share a particular relationship with that good. Those relationships can be close, like one brand of coffee with another, or somewhat further apart, such as coffee and tea.



Giving consumers more choice helps generate competition in the market and lower prices as a result. While that may be good for consumers, it may have the opposite effect on companies' bottom line. Alternative products can cut into companies' profitability, as consumers may end up choosing one more over another or see market share diluted.



When you examine the relationship between the demand schedules of substitute products, if the price of a product goes up the demand for a substitute will tend to increase. This is because people will prefer to lower-cost substitute to the higher cost one. If, for example, the price of coffee increases, the demand for tea may also increase as consumers switch from coffee to tea to maintain their budgets.



Conversely, when a good's price decreases, the demand for its substitute may also decrease. In formal economic language, X and Y are substitutes if demand for X increases when the price of Y increases, or if there is positive cross elasticity of demand.






The availability of substitutes are one of Porter's 5 Forces, the others being competition, new entrants into the industry, the power of suppliers, and the power of customers.


   Examples of Substitute Goods  

Substitute goods are all around us. As mentioned above, they are generally used for the same purpose or are able to satisfy similar needs for consumers.



Here are just a few examples of substitute goods:



Currency: a dollar bill for 4 quarters (also known as fungibility)
Coke vs. Pepsi
Premium vs. regular gasoline
Butter and margarine
Tea and coffee
Apples and oranges
Riding a bike versus driving a car
E-books and regular books



There is one thing to keep in mind when it comes to substitutes: the degree to which a good is a substitute for another can, and often will, differ.


   Perfect vs. Less Perfect Substitutes  

Classifying a product or service as a substitute is not always straightforward. There are different degrees to which products or services can be defined as substitutes. A substitute can be perfect or imperfect depending on whether the substitute completely or partially satisfies the consumer.



A perfect substitute can be used in exactly the same way as the good or service it replaces. This is where the utility of the product or service is pretty much identical. For example, a one-dollar bill is a perfect substitute for another dollar bill. And butter from two different producers are also considered perfect substitutes; the producer may be different, but their purpose and usage are the same.



A bike and a car are far from perfect substitutes, but they are similar enough for people to use them to get from point A to point B. There is also some measurable relationship in the demand schedule.



Although an imperfect substitute may be replaceable, it may have a degree of difference that can be easily perceived by consumers. So some consumers may choose to stick with one product over the other. Consider Coke versus Pepsi. A consumer may choose Coke over Pepsi—perhaps because of taste—even if the price of Coke goes up. If a consumer perceives a difference between soda brands, she may see Pepsi as an imperfect substitute for Coke, even if economists consider them perfect substitutes.



Less perfect substitutes are sometimes classified as gross substitutes or net substitutes by factoring in utility. A gross substitute is one in which demand for X increases when the price of Y increases. Net substitutes are those in which demand for X increases when the price of Y increases and the utility derived from the substitute remains constant.


   Substitute Goods in Perfect Competition and Monopolistic Competition  

In cases of perfect competition, perfect substitutes are sometimes conceived as nearly indistinguishable goods being sold by different firms. For example, gasoline from a gas station on one corner may be virtually indistinguishable from gasoline sold by another gas station on the opposite corner. An increase in the price at one station will result in more people choosing the cheaper option.



Monopolistic competition presents an interesting case that present complications with the concept of substitutes. In monopolistic competition, companies are not price-takers, meaning demand is not highly sensitive to price. A common example is a difference between the store brand and name-branded medicine at your local pharmacy. The products themselves are nearly indistinguishable chemically, but they are not perfect substitutes due to the utility consumers may get—or believe they get—from purchasing a brand name over a generic drug believing it to be more reputable or of higher quality.
What Is the Substitution Effect?  

The substitution effect is the decrease in sales for a product that can be attributed to consumers switching to cheaper alternatives when its price rises. A product may lose market share for many reasons, but the substitution effect is purely a reflection of frugality. If a brand raises its price, some consumers will select a cheaper alternative. If beef prices rise, many consumers will eat more chicken.





Key Takeaways

The substitution effect is the decrease in sales for a product that can be attributed to consumers switching to cheaper alternatives when its price rises.When the price of a product or service increases but the buyer's income stays the same, the substitution effect generally kicks in.The substitution effect is strongest for products that are close substitutes.An increase in consumer spending power can offset the substitution effect.


   Understanding the Substitution Effect  

In general, when the price of a product or service increases but the buyer's income stays the same, the substitution effect kicks in. This is not only evident in consumer behavior. For example, a manufacturer faced with a price hike for an essential component from a domestic supplier may switch to a cheaper version produced by a foreign competitor.



How, then, does any company get away with increasing its price? In addition to the substitution effect, there's the income effect—some of its customers may be enjoying an increase in spending power and be willing to buy a pricier product. A company's success in repricing its product is determined in part by how much of the substitution effect is offset by the income effect.


   Special Considerations  
  Price Fluctuations  

As noted, when a product price increases consumers tend to drop it for a cheaper alternative. This can turn into an endless game of supply and demand. Steak prices rise, so consumers substitute pork. This leads to a decline in the demand for steak, so its price drops and consumers return to buying steak.



This does not mean only that consumers chase a bargain. Consumers make their choices based on their overall spending power and make constant adjustments based on price changes. They strive to maintain their living standards despite price fluctuations.






The substitution effect kicks in when a product's price increases but the consumer's spending power stays the same.


  Close Substitutes  

The substitution effect is strongest for products that are close substitutes. For instance, a shopper might pick a synthetic shirt when the pure cotton brand seems too pricey. Eventually, enough shoppers may follow suit to make a measurable effect on the sales of both shirt makers.



Elsewhere, if a golf club hikes its fees, some members might quit. However, if there is no comparable choice for them to turn to then they may just have to pay up to avoid quitting the sport completely.


  Inferior Goods  

As illogical as it seems, the substitution effect may not occur when the products that increase in price are inferior in quality. In fact, an inferior product that rises in price may actually enjoy a sales increase.



Products that display this phenomenon are called Giffen goods, after a Victorian economist who first observed it. Sir Robert Giffen noted that cheap staples such as potatoes will be purchased in greater quantities if their prices rise. He concluded that people on extremely limited budgets are forced to buy even more potatoes because their increasing price places other higher-quality staples altogether out of their reach.



Substitute goods may be adequate replacements or inferior goods. Demand for an inferior good will increase when overall consumer spending power falls.
What Is a Sukuk?  

A sukuk is an Islamic financial certificate, similar to a bond in Western finance, that complies with Islamic religious law commonly known as Sharia. Since the traditional Western interest-paying bond structure is not permissible, the issuer of a sukuk essentially sells an investor group a certificate, and then uses the proceeds to purchase an asset that the investor group has direct partial ownership interest in. The issuer must also make a contractual promise to buy back the bond at a future date at par value.





Key Takeaways

A sukuk is a sharia-compliant bond-like instruments used in Islamic finance.Sukuk involves a direct asset ownership interest, while bonds are indirect interest-bearing debt obligations.Both sukuk and bonds provide investors with payment streams, however income derived from a sukuk cannot be speculative which would make it no longer halal.


   Understanding Sukuk  

With the rise of Islamic finance, sukuk have become extremely popular since 2000, when the first such products were issued in Malaysia. Bahrain followed suit in 2001. Fast forward to current times, and sukuk are used by Islamic corporations and state-run organizations alike around the globe, taking up an increasing share of the global fixed-income market.



Islamic law prohibits what's known as "riba," or what we understand as "interest" in the West. Therefore, traditional, Western debt instruments cannot be used as viable investment vehicles or ways to raise capital for a business. To circumvent this, sukuk were created in order to link the returns and cash flows of debt financing to a specific asset being purchased, effectively distributing the benefits of that asset. This allows investors to work around the prohibition outlined under Sharia and still receive the benefits of debt financing. However, because of the way that sukuk are structured, financing can only be raised for identifiable assets.



Thus, sukuk represent aggregate and undivided shares of ownership in a tangible asset as it relates to a specific project or a specific investment activity. An investor in a sukuk, therefore, does not own a debt obligation owed by the bond issuer, but instead owns a piece of the asset that's linked to the investment. This means that sukuk holders, unlike bond holders, receive a portion of the earnings generated by the associated asset.


   Sukuk vs. Traditional Bonds  

Sukuk and conventional bonds do share similar characteristics, but also have important key differences:





Similarities

Both provide investors with payment streams.
Bonds and sukuk are issued to investors and may be used to raise capital for a firm.
Both are considered to be safer investments than equities.
Sukuk investors receive profit generated by the underlying asset on a periodic basis while bond investors receive periodic interest payments.



Key Differences

Sukuk involves asset ownership while bonds are debt obligations.
If the asset backing a sukuk appreciates then the sukuk can appreciate whereas bond yield is strictly due to its interest rate.
Assets that back sukuk are halal whereas bonds are often riba and may finance non sharia compliant businesses or fuel speculation.
Sukuk valuation is based on the value of the assets backing them while a bonds price is largely determined by its credit rating.





   Sukuk Example: Trust Certificates  

The most common type of a sukuk comes in the form of a trust certificate. These certificates are also governed by Western law, however, the structure of this type of sukuk is more nuanced. The organization raising funds first creates an offshore special purpose vehicle (SPV). The SPV then issues trust certificates to qualified investors and puts the proceeds of the investments toward a funding agreement with the issuing organization. In return, the investors earn a portion of the profits linked to the asset.



Sukuk structured as trust certificates are only applicable if the SPV can be created in an offshore jurisdiction that allows such trusts. This is sometimes not possible. If an SPV and trust certificates can't be created, a sukuk can be structured as an alternative civil-law structure. In this scenario, an asset-leasing company is created in the country of origin, effectively purchasing the asset and leasing it back to the organization in need of financing.
What Is the Sum of Squares?  

The term sum of squares refers to a statistical technique used in regression analysis to determine the dispersion of data points. The sum of squares can be used to find the function that best fits by varying the least from the data. In a regression analysis, the goal is to determine how well a data series can be fitted to a function that might help to explain how the data series was generated. The sum of squares can be used in the financial world to determine the variance in asset values.





Key Takeaways

The sum of squares measures the deviation of data points away from the mean value.A higher sum of squares indicates higher variability while a lower result indicates low variability from the mean.To calculate the sum of squares, subtract the mean from the data points, square the differences, and add them together.There are three types of sum of squares: total, residual, and regressive.Investors can use the sum of squares to help make better decisions about their investments.


   Sum of Squares Formula  

The following is the formula for the total sum of squares.


















For a set 


X


 of 


n


 items:
















Sum of squares


=



∑



i


=


0



n





(



X


i



−



X


‾



)



2

















where:

















X


i



=


The 



i



t


h




 item in the set

















X


‾



=


The mean of all items in the set

















(



X


i



−



X


‾



)



=


The deviation of each item from the mean







\begin{aligned} &\text{For a set } X \text{ of } n \text{ items:}\\ &\text{Sum of squares}=\sum_{i=0}^{n}\left(X_i-\overline{X}\right)^2\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &X_i=\text{The } i^{th} \text{ item in the set}\\ &\overline{X}=\text{The mean of all items in the set}\\ &\left(X_i-\overline{X}\right) = \text{The deviation of each item from the mean}\\ \end{aligned}


​For a set X of n items:Sum of squares=i=0∑n​(Xi​−X)2where:Xi​=The ith item in the setX=The mean of all items in the set(Xi​−X)=The deviation of each item from the mean​


   Understanding the Sum of Squares  

The sum of squares is a statistical measure of deviation from the mean. It is also known as variation. It is calculated by adding together the squared differences of each data point. To determine the sum of squares, square the distance between each data point and the line of best fit, then add them together. The line of best fit will minimize this value.



A low sum of squares indicates little variation between data sets while a higher one indicates more variation. Variation refers to the difference of each data set from the mean. You can visualize this in a chart. If the line doesn't pass through all the data points, then there is some unexplained variability. We go into a little more detail about this in the next section below.



Analysts and investors can use the sum of squares to make better decisions about their investments. Keep in mind, though that using it means you're making assumptions about using past performance. For instance, this measure can help you determine the level of volatility in a stock's price or how the share prices of two companies compare.



Let's say an analyst who wants to know whether Microsoft (MSFT) share prices move in tandem with those of Apple (AAPL) can list out the daily prices for both stocks for a certain period (say one, two, or 10 years) and create a linear model or a chart. If the relationship between both variables (i.e., the price of AAPL and MSFT) is not a straight line, then there are variations in the data set that must be scrutinized.






Variation is a statistical measure that is calculated or measured by using squared differences.


   How to Calculate the Sum of Squares  

You can see why the measurement is called the sum of squared deviations, or the sum of squares for short. You can use the following steps to calculate the sum of squares:



Gather all the data points.Determine the mean/averageSubtract the mean/average from each individual data point.Square each total from Step 3.Add up the figures from Step 4.



In statistics, it is the average of a set of numbers, which is calculated by adding the values in the data set together and dividing by the number of values. But knowing the mean may not be enough to determine the sum of squares. As such, it helps to know the variation in a set of measurements. How far individual values are from the mean may provide insight into how fit the observations or values are to the regression model that is created.


   Types of Sum of Squares  

The formula we highlighted earlier is used to calculate the total sum of squares. The total sum of squares is used to arrive at other types. The following are the other types of sum of squares.


  Residual Sum of Squares  

As noted above, if the line in the linear model created does not pass through all the measurements of value, then some of the variability that has been observed in the share prices is unexplained. The sum of squares is used to calculate whether a linear relationship exists between two variables, and any unexplained variability is referred to as the residual sum of squares.



The RSS allows you to determine the amount of error left between a regression function and the data set after the model has been run. You can interpret a smaller RSS figure as a regression function that is well-fit to the data while the opposite is true of a larger RSS figure.



Here is the formula for calculating the residual sum of squares:


















SSE


=



∑



i


=


1



n



(



y


i



−




y


^



i




)


2

















where:

















y


i



=


Observed value


















y


^



i



=


Value estimated by regression line







\begin{aligned}&\text{SSE} = \sum_{i = 1}^{n} (y_i - \hat{y}_i)^2 \\&\textbf{where:} \\&y_i = \text{Observed value} \\&\hat{y}_i = \text{Value estimated by regression line} \\\end{aligned}


​SSE=i=1∑n​(yi​−y^​i​)2where:yi​=Observed valuey^​i​=Value estimated by regression line​


  Regression Sum of Squares  

The regression sum of squares is used to denote the relationship between the modeled data and a regression model. A regression model establishes whether there is a relationship between one or multiple variables. Having a low regression sum of squares indicates a better fit with the data. A higher regression sum of squares, though, means the model and the data aren't a good fit together.



Here is the formula for calculating the regression sum of squares:














SSR


=



∑



i


=


1



n



(




y


^



i



−



y


ˉ




)


2

















where:


















y


^



i



=


Value estimated by regression line

















y


ˉ



=


Mean value of a sample







\begin{aligned}&\text{SSR} = \sum_{i = 1}^{n} (\hat{y}_i - \bar{y})^2 \\&\textbf{where:} \\&\hat{y}_i = \text{Value estimated by regression line} \\&\bar{y} = \text{Mean value of a sample} \\\end{aligned}


​SSR=i=1∑n​(y^​i​−yˉ​)2where:y^​i​=Value estimated by regression lineyˉ​=Mean value of a sample​






Adding the sum of the deviations alone without squaring them results in a number equal to or close to zero since the negative deviations will almost perfectly offset the positive deviations. To get a more realistic number, the sum of deviations must be squared. The sum of squares will always be a positive number because the square of any number, whether positive or negative, is always positive.


   Limitations of Using the Sum of Squares  

Making an investment decision on what stock to purchase requires many more observations than the ones listed here. An analyst may have to work with years of data to know with a higher certainty how high or low the variability of an asset is. As more data points are added to the set, the sum of squares becomes larger as the values will be more spread out.



The most widely used measurements of variation are the standard deviation and variance. However, to calculate either of the two metrics, the sum of squares must first be calculated. The variance is the average of the sum of squares (i.e., the sum of squares divided by the number of observations). The standard deviation is the square root of the variance.



There are two methods of regression analysis that use the sum of squares:



The linear least squares method
The non-linear least squares method



The least squares method refers to the fact that the regression function minimizes the sum of the squares of the variance from the actual data points. In this way, it is possible to draw a function, which statistically provides the best fit for the data. Note that a regression function can either be linear (a straight line) or non-linear (a curving line).


   Example of Sum of Squares  

Let's use Microsoft as an example to show how you can arrive at the sum of squares.



Using the steps listed above, we gather the data. So if we're looking at the company's performance over a five-year period, we'll need the closing prices for that time frame:



$74.01$74.77$73.94$73.61$73.40



Now let's figure out the average price. The sum of the total prices is $369.73 and the mean or average price is $369.73 ÷ 5 = $73.95.



Then, figure out the sum of squares, we find the difference of each price from the average, square the differences, and add them together:



SS = ($74.01 - $73.95)2 + ($74.77 - $73.95)2 + ($73.94 - $73.95)2 + ($73.61 - $73.95)2 + ($73.40 - $73.95)2SS = (0.06)2 + (0.82)2 + (-0.01)2 + (-0.34)2 + (-0.55)2SS = 1.0942



In the example above, 1.0942 shows that the variability in the stock price of MSFT over five days is very low and investors looking to invest in stocks characterized by price stability and low volatility may opt for Microsoft.




How Do You Define the Sum of Squares?
The sum of squares is a form of regression analysis to determine the variance from data points from the mean. If there is a low sum of squares, it means there's low variation. A higher sum of squares indicates higher variance. This can be used to help make more informed decisions by determining investment volatility or to compare groups of investments with one another.




How Do You Calculate the Sum of Squares?
In order to calculate the sum of squares, gather all your data points. Then determine the mean or average by adding them all together and dividing that figure by the total number of data points. Next, figure out the differences between each data point and the mean. Then square those differences and add them together to give you the sum of squares.




How Does the Sum of Squares Help in Finance?
Investors and analysts can use the sum of squares to make comparisons between different investments or make decisions about how to invest. For instance, you can use the sum of squares to determine stock volatility. A low sum generally indicates low volatility while higher volatility is derived from a higher sum of squares.


   The Bottom Line  

As an investor, you want to make informed decisions about where to put your money. While you can certainly do so using your gut instinct, there are tools at your disposal that can help you. The sum of squares takes historical data to give you an indication of implied volatility. Use it to see whether a stock is a good fit for you or to determine an investment if you're on the fence between two different assets. Keep in mind, though, that the sum of squares uses past performance as an indicator and doesn't guarantee future performance.



Correction—May 18, 2023: A previous version of this article misstated that the sum of squares is calculated by subtracting the data points from the mean. It has been corrected to show that the mean should be subtracted from the data points.
What Is the Sum-of-the-Parts Valuation – SOTP?  

The sum-of-the-parts valuation (SOTP) is a process of valuing a company by determining what its aggregate divisions would be worth if they were spun off or acquired by another company.



The valuation provides a range of values for a company's equity by aggregating the standalone value of each of its business units and arriving at a single total enterprise value (TEV). The equity value is then derived by adjusting the company's net debt and other non-operating assets and expenses.


   The Formula for Sum-of-the-Parts Valuation – SOTP Is  

﻿















SOTP


=



N


1



+



N


2



+


…


+


N


D


−


N


L


+


N


A
















where:

















N


1



=


Value of first segment

















N


2



=


Value of second segment
















N


D


=


net debt
















N


L


=


nonoperating liabilities








\begin{aligned} &\text{SOTP} = N_1 + N_2 + \dotso + ND - NL + NA \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &N_1=\text{Value of first segment}\\ &N_2=\text{Value of second segment}\\ &ND=\text{net debt}\\ &NL=\text{nonoperating liabilities}\\ &NA = \text{nonoperating assets} \end{aligned}


​SOTP=N1​+N2​+…+ND−NL+NAwhere:N1​=Value of first segmentN2​=Value of second segmentND=net debtNL=nonoperating liabilities​﻿





Key Takeaways

SOTP is the process of determining what the individual divisions of a company would be worth if they were spun off or bought by a different company.SOTP enables a company to establish a useful measure of its value which can be highly relevant in the case of a hostile takeover or a restructuring.SOTP is often put to use when a company is a conglomerate and has business units in different industries.


   How to Calculate Sum-of-the-Parts Valuation – SOTP  

The value of each business unit or segment is derived separately and can be determined by any number of analysis methods. For example, discounted cash flow (DCF) valuations, asset-based valuations and multiples valuations using revenue, operating profit or profit margins are methods utilized to value a business segment.


   What Does the SOTP Tell You?  

Sum-of-the-parts valuation, also known as breakup value analysis, helps a company understand its true value. For example, you might hear that a young technology company is "worth more than the sum of its parts," meaning the value of the company's divisions could be worth more if they were sold to other companies.



In situations such as this one, larger companies have the ability to take advantage of synergies and economies of scale unavailable to smaller companies, enabling them to maximize a division's profitability and unlock unrealized value.



The SOTP valuation is most commonly used to value a company comprised of business units in different industries since valuation methods differ across industries depending on the nature of revenue. It is possible to use this valuation to defend against a hostile takeover by proving the company is worth more as a sum of its parts. It is also possible to use this valuation in situations where a company is being revalued after a restructuring.






The Sum-of-the-parts valuation is also known as the breakup value as it assesses what individual segments would be worth if the company was broken up.


   Example of How to Use the Sum-of-the-Parts Valuation – SOTP  

Consider United Technologies (NYSE: UTX), which said it will break the company into three units in late 2018—an aerospace, elevator and building systems company. Using the 10-year median enterprise value-to-EBIT (EV/EBIT) multiple for peers and 2019 operating profit projections, the aerospace business is valued at $107 billion, the elevator business at $36 billion and building systems business $52 billion. Thus, the total value is $194 billion. Lessing out net debt and other items of $39 billion, the sum-of-the-parts valuation is $155 billion.


   The Difference Between the SOTP and Discounted Cash Flow – DCF  

While both are valuation tools, the SOTP valuation can incorporate a discounted cash flow (DCF) valuation. That is, valuing a segment of a company may be done with a DCF analysis. Meanwhile, the DCF uses discounted future cash flows to value a business, project or segment. The present value of expected future cash flows is discounted using a discount rate.


   Limitations of Using Sum-of-the-Parts Valuation – SOTP  

The sum-of-the-parts (SOTP) valuation involves valuing various business segments, and more valuations come with more inputs. As well, SOTP valuations do not take into account tax implications, notably the implications involved in a spinoff.


   Learn More About the SOTP Valuation  

For help on choosing the right valuation tool check out this guide to picking the right valuation method.
What Is Summa Cum Laude?  

Summa cum laude is an honorary title used by educational institutions to signify a degree that was earned "with the highest distinction."



Summa cum laude indicates the greatest distinction of three commonly used types of academic honors recognized in the United States, expressed in Latin. The other two are called magna cum laude and cum laude, representing degrees earned "with great distinction" and "with distinction," respectively.



The guidelines under which students achieve each level of academic honor differ from institution to institution. Increasingly, high schools across the United States also include Latin honors for students upon graduation. Although Latin honors are quite common in the United States, very few other countries around the world use the system.





Key Takeaways

Summa cum laude is the highest of three Latin honors that may be bestowed upon students earning a bachelor's degree.Summa cum laude is a greater honor than magna cum laude or cum laude.Criteria for the summa cum laude may include grade point average, class rank, hours and special projects (i.e., senior thesis) completed, and recommendations from an academic department.Different institutions will select summa cum laude criteria differently.Latin honors are impressive, but it's impossible to know how critical they are in landing a job.


   Understanding Summa Cum Laude  

Summa cum laude is one of the three Latin honors traditionally given to select students upon receiving a bachelor's degree, although it can in some cases be included with other types of degrees as well. Students who graduate with honors may wear colored stoles or other designations during commencement ceremonies, and the honor is read aloud along with the person's name.



Criteria for Latin honors may include grade point average (GPA), class rank, number of hours completed, and honors designations from an academic department.



Every university or college outlines its own expectations for each program. Some higher education institutions do not bestow Latin-termed honors at all. Others, like Stanford University, have a separate set of non-Latin honorary titles (such as "with Distinction") that are typically seen as roughly equivalent to the traditional Latin titles.


   GPA-Based Requirements  

Many institutions use cumulative grade point averages (GPA ) to determine who graduates with a summa cum laude designation. Students at the University of New Mexico, for instance, need to complete 60 credit hours toward graduation in addition to a GPA of 3.90 or higher. By contrast, Denver University (DU) requires students to have a 3.95 GPA and have completed 90 quarter hours; they must also submit a senior thesis or complete a senior project. (If they have less than 90 hours, they must receive a departmental recommendation.)



Because summa cum laude is typically the highest distinction of the three traditional Latin honors, it is typically reserved for the smallest number of graduating students. In some cases, only a handful of students will receive the summa cum laude designation upon graduating.



At institutions selecting students for Latin honors based on GPA requirements, the number of individuals receiving summa cum laude honors may vary from year to year. There may be no limit, potentially, to the percentage of students in a graduating class who could receive summa cum laude distinction, provided that those students meet the GPA requirement.


   Summa Cum Laude and Class Rank  

Although GPA-based requirements for Latin honors are the most common throughout higher education institutions in the U.S., there are other factors that may be included as well. One of these is class rank; some institutions reserve the summa cum laude title for students graduating at the highest levels of their class. In this case, GPA is a factor in determining whether a student receives this honor at graduation, but that student does not necessarily need to obtain a particular GPA in order to make that achievement.



As an example of how class rank-based Latin honors work in practice, graduates of the University of Massachusetts at Amherst need to finish in the top 5% of the graduating class of a particular college and complete 45 credits in order to receive the summa cum laude designation. In other cases, Latin honors are dependent upon students' performance in particular classes, often either honors classes or those relevant to their major area of study.



Students at the University of Notre Dame, for instance, earn Latin honors within the college that oversees the student's major. Graduates must finish in the top 5% of the class in order to receive the summa cum laude distinction. Because class rank changes based on the performance of other students, the GPA changes each academic year. In 2019, students in the College of Arts & Letters at Notre Dame needed a 3.94 GPA to earn summa cum laude honors. In contrast, in 2009, students needed a 3.927 GPA to earn those honors.






Latin honors like summa cum laude appear on a student's official transcript and diploma.


   Example: Harvard's Latin Honors  

Harvard University is generally credited to be the first U.S. institute of higher education to bestow Latin honors at graduation.



Harvard's Latin honors stand out from other institutions, both historically and through to the present day. Harvard faculty members consider candidates for summa cum laude in their field by weighing the student's grades in the courses for their major and the rigor of those courses, and a demonstration of student's mastery of their field, such as a senior thesis and/or some type of written or oral examination.



Only students who graduate in the top 4-5% of their graduating class may earn summa cum laude honors in their field. Graduates earn summa cum laude over the entire university based on the 4-5% class rank, and Harvard sets standards for the academic year each May.






Harvard College introduced two Latin honors in 1869—cum laude and summa cum laude. Magna cum laude followed in 1880. As of May 2022, a student must have a GPA of at least 3.976 to be eligible for a summa cum laude.


   Special Considerations  

In most colleges and universities, the large majority of undergraduates completing a bachelor's degree do not receive Latin honors of any kind. For those who do, these honors are likely to impact their future in different ways depending upon a number of factors, including their field of study, future interests, and more.



Some graduate schools, for example, are particularly focused on academic rank and GPA; top law schools are famous for their stringent GPA requirements. In other fields, academic honors may be less crucial to success.



For graduates entering the job market, a Latin honor listed on a resume could well impress a potential employer, as it suggests a level of intelligence and diligence. For other employers, though, a candidate's personality and skill set might be more important—or the fact that they attended a prestigious institution, like Harvard, regardless of how well they did there. Job listings often specify a B.A. or B.S., but rarely require a certain GPA or level of academic honors.




What Does Summa Laude Mean?
Summa cum laude is an honorary distinction awarded by universities to a small fraction of college graduates each year. A Latin term, it literally translates as "highest honor" or "highest praise." These students have earned grades within the highest percentage of their class or department, or have achieved some other metric that the school considers worthy of the highest or, the summit of, recognition.




What Is Higher, Summa or Magna?
Summa is higher than magna. "Magna cum laude" is Latin for "with great distinction." "Summa cum laude" translates as "with the highest distinction." Cum laude, "with distinction" is third.




What Is the Highest Honor in College?
Generally, the highest honor in college is the valedictorian, followed by the salutatorian. As a group, the highest honor is summa cum laude. The next highest is the magna cum laude, and the third is the cum laude.




How Do You Get Summa Cum Laude?
There is no universal standard for granting a summa cum laude. Rather, it is up to each individual school, and in some cases, each school's individual department, to determine what constitutes the award.In general, though, summa cum laude is based on a student's grade point average. Usually, it has to be high: 3.9 or above. A student's class rank, number of course hours completed, and requirements such as a thesis or senior project, might also be part of the qualifications for a summa cum laude.




How Do You List an Honors Degree on a Resume?
An honors degree is often listed directly after your degree, separated by a comma. If you include your major or field of study, it could come after that: B.A. in History, magna cum laude. If it is a Latin title, like summa cum laude, the honors degree should be lower case letters and written in italics.
What Is a Sunk Cost?  

A sunk cost is money that has already been spent and cannot be recovered. In business, the axiom that one has to "spend money to make money" is reflected in the phenomenon of the sunk cost. A sunk cost differs from future costs that a business may face, such as decisions about inventory purchase costs or product pricing. Sunk costs are excluded from future business decisions because they will remain the same regardless of the outcome of a decision.





Key Takeaways

Sunk costs are those which have already been incurred and which are unrecoverable.In business, sunk costs are typically not included in consideration when making future decisions, as they are seen as irrelevant to current and future budgetary concerns.Sunk costs are in contrast to relevant costs, which are future costs that have yet to be incurred.The sunk cost fallacy is a psychological barrier that ties people to unsuccessful endeavors simply because they've committed resources to it.Examples of sunk costs include salaries, insurance, rent, nonrefundable deposits, or repairs (as long as each of those items is not recoverable).












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   Understanding Sunk Costs  

A sunk cost refers to money that has already been spent and cannot be recovered. A manufacturing firm, for example, may have a number of sunk costs, such as the cost of machinery, equipment, and the lease expense on the factory. Sunk costs are excluded from a sell-or-process-further decision, which is a concept that applies to products that can be sold as they are or can be processed further.



When making business decisions, organizations should only consider relevant costs, which include the future costs that still needed to be incurred. The relevant costs are contrasted with the potential revenue of one choice compared to another. To make an informed decision, a business only considers the costs and revenue that will change as a result of the decision at hand. Because sunk costs do not change, they should not be considered.






Businesses that continue a course of action because of the time or money already committed to an earlier decision risk falling into the sunk cost trap.


   Types of Sunk Costs  

All sunk costs are fixed costs but not all fixed costs are sunk costs. The difference is that sunk costs cannot be recovered. If equipment can be resold or returned at the purchase price, for example, it's not a sunk cost.



Sunk costs don't only apply to businesses as individual consumers can incur sunk costs as well. Let's say you buy a theater ticket for $50 but at the last minute can't attend. The $50 you spent would be a sunk cost but would not factor into whether or not you buy theater tickets in the future. In general, businesses pay more attention to fixed and sunk costs than people, as both types of costs impact profits.



Sunk costs also cover certain expenses that are committed but yet to paid. Imagine a company that has entered into a contract to buy 1,000 pounds of raw materials for the next six months. If the company is contractually obligated to uphold their end of the deal, the raw materials are a sunk cost whether the company has paid for them or not because the company will incur the costs regardless of what the company decides to do with the materials.


   Sunk Cost Fallacy  

The sunk cost fallacy is the improper mindset a company or individual may have when working through a decision. This fallacy is based on the premise that committing to the current plan is justified because resources have already been committed. This mistake may result in improper long-term strategic planning decisions based on short-term committed costs.



Imagine a non-financial example of a college student trying to determine their major. A student may declare as an accounting major, only to realize after two accounting classes that this is not the career path for them. The sunk cost fallacy would make the student believe committing to the accounting major is worth it because resources have already been spent on the decision. In reality, the student should only evaluate the courses remaining and courses required for a different major.



In business, the sunk cost fallacy is prevalent when management refuses to deviate from original plans, even when those original plans fail to materialize. The sunk cost fallacy incorporates investor emotions that cause otherwise irrational decision-making.






The sunk cost fallacy is deeply rooted in biological tendencies, as researchers from the University of California San Diego analyzed the sunk cost effect in humans as well as pigeons.


  Sunk Cost Fallacy - Psychological Factors  

There's five common explanations as to why the sunk cost fallacy exists. Here are the psychological reasons that explain why some decision-making processes fail.



Loss aversion. People may prefer to avoid a loss over an equivalent gain. These people are unwilling to commit to a guaranteed loss (i.e. ending a project that has a sunk cost) due to their low risk tolerance. All else being equal, some people have a tendency to avoid losses as opposed to seek gains.
Commitment bias. People may stick to a plan because that was simply the original plan that was made. A project is given preferential treatment for no other reason than it was what was originally decided upon.
Waste avoidance. People may want to avoid wasting company resources. Unfortunately, especially in research and development, not all opportunities pay off as due diligence spending may lead to nowhere.
Personal decision-making. People may feel emotionally attached or responsible for a specific project or decision. This creates an emotional bias that the project may turn or the data may be incorrect.


   How to Avoid Sunk Cost Fallacy  

The sunk cost fallacy can easily be overcome with mindfulness, dedicate, and thoughtful planning. Here's a few pointers on overcoming the mental challenge.



Frame the problem. The root of decision-making must start with a very specific problem that needs to be solved. This problem should be the central focal point of discussion and should drive all actions from analysts. This step helps frame what is important and what should be recognized as an unimportant distractor.
Remain independent. When people become emotional invested in business decisions, they may lose sight into what is really happening. Instead of relying on data, they have an unrealistically optimistic outlook on their poor decision. Be mindful that unsuccessful projects don't always reflect the decision-maker, and ultimately making the right decision is what should matter most.
Trust the data. When comparing several options, sunk cost is most often excluded. This may feel inappropriate to do, but the process makes sense and delivers the most reliable basis for decision-making.
Change risk preference. Some investors actively seek out risk as they believe those types of investments offer the greatest returns. On the other hand, other investors still stick cash under the mattress and would rather forfeit any potential growth out of liquidity protection. By becoming more accepting of risk and not being consumed by risk aversion, investors can more easily come to terms that it is okay to have incurred sunk costs that will never be recoverable.






After trading for Joey Gallo, the New York Yankees outfielder struck out 194 times over 140 games. Instead of continuing to stick with their decision that didn't pan out as they'd hoped, the Yankees traded Gallo in August 2022. This is an example overcoming the sunk cost fallacy.


   Example of Sunk Costs  

Assume that XYZ Clothing makes baseball gloves. It pays $5,000 a month for its factory lease, and the machinery has been purchased outright for $25,000. The company produces a basic model of a glove that costs $50 and sells for $70. The manufacturer can sell the basic model and earn a $20 profit per unit. Alternatively, it can continue the production process by adding $15 in costs and sell a premium model glove for $90.



To make this decision, the firm compares the $15 additional cost with the $20 added revenue and decides to make the premium glove in order to earn $5 more in profit. The cost of the factory lease and machinery are both sunk costs and are not part of the decision-making process.



If a sunk cost can be eliminated at some point, it becomes a relevant cost and should be a part of business decisions about future events.



If, for example, XYZ Clothing is considering shutting down a production facility, any of the sunk costs that have end dates should be included in the decision. To make the decision to close the facility, XYZ Clothing considers the revenue that would be lost if production ends as well as the costs that are also eliminated. If the factory lease ends in six months, the lease cost is no longer a sunk cost and should be included as an expense that can also be eliminated. If the total costs are more than revenue, the facility should be closed.




What Is an Example of a Sunk Cost?
Imagine a company decides it needs to expand its warehouse. It contacts an architect to design a new space who drafts some preliminary drawings for a fee. Then, an economy slowdown occurs, and the company is now unsure whether it should continue with the new warehouse.In this example, the architecture fees are an examl




Are Salaries a Sunk Cost?
Yes, any salary that has been paid to an employee is a sunk cost. As long as those wages are not recoverable, that salary represents an expense that has been incurred and can not be captured back by the company.




What Is a Sunk Cost vs. a Fixed Cost?
In business, fixed costs are expenses that have to be paid by a company independent of any specific work activities: They don't apply to a company's production of any goods or services, and they don't rise or fall with a change in the number of goods or services produced or sold. Sunk costs are a subset of fixed costs—specifically, a type of fixed cost that is not recoverable.




What Is the Difference Between Sunk Cost and Relevant Cost?
When making business decisions, organizations should only consider relevant costs, which include future costs—such as decisions about inventory purchase costs or product pricing—that still need to be incurred. The relevant costs are contrasted with the potential revenue of one choice compared to another. Sunk costs are excluded from future business decisions because the cost will remain the same regardless of the outcome of a decision.




Why Are Sunk Costs Important?
Sunk costs are important because may act as distractors in decision-making. When a company analyzes costs and benefits, sunk costs should have no bearing on the decision-making process as the sunk cost will be incurred regardless of the outcome of the choice. Sunk costs are important to be mindful of because incorrectly including them in an analysis may lead to a less favorable decision being chosen.


   The Bottom Line  

All businesses and individuals incur sunk costs. Whether its the groceries already in your refrigerator, the employees on a company's payroll, or capital expenditure plans by your local government, sunk costs are a natural part of finance. These expenses are already committed to and nonrecoverable; for that reason, sunk costs should not be included in future decision-making as the expense for the sunk cost will be exactly the same in every situation.
What Is Superannuation?  

A superannuation is an Australian pension program created by a company to benefit its employees. Funds deposited in a superannuation account will grow through appreciation and contributions until retirement or withdrawal.



The term "super" is more commonly used when referring to pension plans available in Australia. The U.S. equivalents to a superannuation plan are defined-benefit or defined-contribution plans.





Key Takeaways

Australian superannuation funds are more commonly referred to as super funds.There are two types of superannuation funds; defined-benefit funds and accumulation funds.Accumulation fund distributions and total value are subject to market fluctuations.Defined-benefit plans are not subject to market fluctuations but can be mismanaged and run out of funding.Both types of super funds have specific taxable conditions depending on the contribution and contributor's circumstances.


   Understanding Superannuation  

As funds are added by employer (and potentially employee) contributions and other traditional growth vehicles, the funds are reserved in a superannuation fund. This monetary fund pays out employee pension benefits as participating employees become eligible. An employee is deemed to be superannuated upon reaching the proper age or as a result of infirmity. At that point, the employee can draw benefits from the fund.



A superannuation fund differs from some other retirement investment mechanisms in that the benefit available to an eligible employee is defined by a set schedule and not by the performance of the investment.


   Types of Superannuation Plans  

There are two types of superannuation funds, called super funds in Australia.


  Accumulation Funds  

An accumulation fund is basically what the name says it is. Employees and employers periodically contribute to the fund so that it grows over time. The funds are designed to increase by using the contributions in investment strategies to give a return on investment, allowing for larger distributions.



Accumulation funds are distributed to retirees based on the returns generated, so the more you put into the fund and the more it grows, the more you can receive in retirement.






Superannuations are taxed differently in the U.S. and Australia. It can become complicated if you have an Australian super and are subject to U.S. tax laws. It's best to consult with a tax expert to find out your tax obligations.


  Defined Benefit Fund  

Defined benefit plans are funds that make distributions based on a formula to give a guaranteed amount of income when withdrawals begin. These are similar to annuities or pension plans where employment length and salary history are considered.


   Benefits of Superannuation  

A superannuation has many benefits. Some of the most notable are:



Lower fee structures: Fees tend to run low compared to other retirement account optionsSimple features: Most supers only provide what you need and give you choices for any extra services.Investment choices: Supers generally allow you to choose your investment types. Depending on your preferences, you can choose from retail, industry, public, corporate, or self-managed super funds.They can follow you throughout your career: A super fund can be "stapled" to you instead of the employer so that it follows you throughout your career. These are called stapled super funds.You can access them early: If you become incapacitated permanently, temporarily unable to work, or have a terminal medical condition, you can access your super early without penalty.Guaranteed income throughout retirement: Super funds guarantee you won't run out of retirement funds before death.Government contributions of up to $500: If you meet specific criteria, the government will contribute a maximum of $500 to your super fund.


   Superannuation From the Employer and Employee Perspective  
  Employer  

A defined benefit superannuation supplies a fixed, predetermined benefit depending on various factors, but it is not dependent on market performance. Specific factors include the number of years the person was employed with the company, the employee's salary, and the exact age at which the employee begins to draw the benefit.



Employers often value these benefits for their predictability. From a business perspective, they can be more complex to administer, but they also allow for larger contributions than some U.S. employer-sponsored plans. Accumulation funds are not as predictable, but still rely on the same factors as defined benefit plans.



Employers who contribute to a super account pay a set tax rate of 15% on the contributions. If you're self-employed, you can deduct your contributions from your taxes, but your super fund pays a 15% tax on them.


  Employee  

Upon qualifying for retirement, an eligible employee receives a fixed amount, usually on a monthly basis (in a defined benefit plan). As mentioned, the amount is determined by a preexisting formula. In that regard, the function of a superannuation is similar to receiving Social Security benefits upon reaching the qualifying age or under qualifying circumstances.



Accumulation funds can increase payouts, but they can also decrease them if the market doesn't cooperate. Employees should be cautious when choosing this type.



Depending on what other retirement savings vehicles the employee has, there may be other implications that require consideration to access the funds in the most tax-efficient way possible.






Non-concessional contributions are from your after-tax income and are not taxed in a super fund. Concessional contributions are from pre-tax income and are taxed at 15% when placed in your super.



Contributions made to a super from after-tax income are not taxable. However, capital gains made in the fund are taxable under specific circumstances. Everyone has a super capital gains tax cap which they can claim under their non-concessional gains.


   Superannuation vs. Other Plans  

While a superannuation guarantees a specific benefit once the employee qualifies, other traditional retirement vehicles may not. For example, a defined benefit superannuation is not affected by individual investment choices, but U.S. retirement plans such as the 401(k) or IRA can be affected by positive and negative market fluctuations. In that sense, the exact benefit from an investment-based retirement plan may not be as predictable as those offered in a superannuation.






Market fluctuations do not impact the benefits of defined benefit funds, but the funds in the plan are typically managed by a trustee who invests those assets in a mix of equities and fixed securities. In that sense, there is some risk that a market downturn could impact the fund's solvency. In such cases, the plan could become underfunded, meaning there are not sufficient funds to meet future obligations.



A person on a defined-benefit plan generally will not have to be concerned with the total amount remaining in the account and is usually at low risk of running out of funds. In other investment vehicles, poor performance could lead a person to run out of available funds before death.



Companies are required to report the funding status of the plan to the appropriate tax authority annually and to make that information available to employees. In the event a plan is underfunded, a company may be required to provide additional funding to remedy the situation.




What Do You Mean by Superannuation?
Superannuation is an Australian retirement account with two types: one that can appreciate over time and has variable payouts depending on market conditions, and one that has a defined benefit payout system that is not susceptible to market fluctuations.




What Is the Difference Between Superannuation and Retirement?
Superannuation is a retirement account that Australians can use to fund their retirement. Retirement means building enough wealth not to need to work again.




What Is Superannuation in Salary?
Superannuation is a retirement fund offered by an employer. You and your employer contribute to this fund to help you build enough wealth to fund your retirement.


   The Bottom Line  

A superannuation is an employer-sponsored retirement account used in Australia. It is similar to U.S. annuities or defined benefit plans in which the retiree receives a set amount based on a formula that accounts for time employed, average salary, and amount contributed.



A superannuation can also be an accumulated fund, where the benefit you receive depends on the amount you and your employer contribute and market conditions.
What Is a Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (SERP)?  

A supplemental executive retirement plan (SERP) is a set of benefits that may be made available to top-level employees in addition to those covered in the company's standard retirement savings plan.



A SERP is a form of a deferred-compensation plan. It is not a qualified plan. That is, there is no special tax treatment for the company or the employee, such as is available through a 401(k) plan.





Key Takeaways

A SERP is a non-qualified retirement plan offered to executives as a long term incentive.Unlike in a 401(k) or other qualified plan, SERPs offer no immediate tax advantages to the company or the executive.When the benefits are paid, the company deducts them as a business expense.


   Understanding SERP  

Companies use a SERP plan as a way to reward and retain key executives. Because these plans are non-qualified, they can be offered selectively to key executives, whose contributions to the company's qualified plan, such as a 401(k), are limited by the maximum annual contributions or the income eligibility limits, or both.



Typically, the company and the executive sign an agreement that promises the executive a certain amount of supplemental retirement income based on various eligibility conditions that the executive must meet. The company funds the plan out of its current cash flows or through the funding of a cash-value life insurance policy. The money, and the taxes on it, are deferred. After retiring, the executive can withdraw the money and must pay state and federal taxes on it as ordinary income.


   Advantages of a SERP  

Supplemental executive retirement plans are options for companies seeking to incentivize key executives. As they are non-qualified, they require no IRS approval and minimal reporting.



The company controls the plan and is able to book an annual expense equal to the present value of the stream of future benefit payments. When the benefits are paid, the company is able to deduct them as an expense.



When a cash-value life insurance policy is used to fund the benefits, the company benefits from tax-deferred accumulation inside the policy. In most cases, the policy can be structured in a way that allows the company to recover its costs.



For executives, the plan can be tailored to meet specific needs. The benefits accrue to the executive without any current tax consequences. When funded with a cash-value life insurance policy, death benefits are available to provide a continued supplemental payment or a lump-sum payment to the family in the event of the executive's premature death.


   Disadvantages of a SERP  

When funding a SERP, the company does not receive an immediate tax deduction. The funds that accumulate for a SERP inside a life insurance policy are not protected from creditor claims against the company in case of the company's insolvency.


   Example of a SERP  

A SERP generally takes on the form of a cash value life insurance policy. Companies buy an insurance policy of an agreed-upon amount for the employee. The company gets tax benefits because it pays the premiums on the insurance. Even if the employee quits, the company still has access to the insurance's cash value. If the employee passes away, the company is a beneficiary of the payout and also gets tax benefits.
What Is Supply?  

Supply is a fundamental economic concept that describes the total amount of a specific good or service that is available to consumers. Supply can relate to the amount available at a specific price or the amount available across a range of prices if displayed on a graph. This relates closely to the demand for a good or service at a specific price; all else being equal, the supply provided by producers will rise if the price rises because all firms look to maximize profits.





Key Takeaways

Supply is the basic economic concept that describes the total amount of a specific good provided to the market for consumption.Supply is heavily correlated to demand, and the two concepts are intertwined to create market equilibrium which defines the availability of goods in the market and the prices they are sold for.Supply is graphically depicted, and the supply curve maps the relationship between price and quantity by being shown as an upward-sloping line.Supply is determined by market demand, cost constraints, consumer preferences, and government policy.Supply is often broken into short-term and long-term supply, though there are other types of supply.


   Understanding Supply  

The concept of supply in economics is complex with many mathematical formulas, practical applications, and contributing factors. While supply can refer to anything in demand that is sold in a competitive marketplace, supply is most used to refer to goods, services, or labor.



One of the most important factors that affect supply is the good’s price. Generally, if a good’s price increases, so will the supply. There is often an inverse relationship between the price consumers are willing to pay and the price manufacturers or retailers are wanting to charge.



The conditions of the production of the item in supply is also significant when a technological advancement increases the quality of a good being supplied, or if there is a disruptive innovation, such as when a technological advancement renders a good obsolete or less in demand. Government regulations can also affect supply; consider environmental laws regarding the extraction of oil affect the supply of such oil.



Supply is represented in microeconomics by a number of mathematical formulas. The supply function and equation express the relationship between supply and the affecting factors. A wealth of information can be gleaned from a supply curve, such as movements (caused by a change in price), shifts (caused by a change that is not related to the price of the good) and price elasticity. 


   History of Supply  

Supply and demand in modern economics has been historically attributed to John Locke in an early iteration, as well as definitively used by Adam Smith’s well-known “An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations,” published in 1776.



The graphical representation of supply curve data was first used in the 1800s, and then popularized in the seminal textbook “Principles of Economics” by Alfred Marshall in 1890. It has long been debated why Britain was the first country to embrace, utilize and publish on theories of supply and demand, and economics in general. The advent of the industrial revolution and the ensuing British economic powerhouse, which included heavy production, technological innovation and an enormous amount of labor, has been a well-discussed cause.


   Calculating Supply  

The algebraic formula for supply represents the supply of an item at any given price is:















Q


s


=


x


+


y


P
















where:
















Q


s


=


Units supplied
















x


=


Quantity of units
















y


=


Level of activity in the market
















P


=


Price of each unit







\begin{aligned}&Qs=x+yP\\&\textbf{where:}\\&Qs=\text{Units supplied}\\&x=\text{Quantity of units}\\&y=\text{Level of activity in the market}\\&P=\text{Price of each unit}\end{aligned}


​Qs=x+yPwhere:Qs=Units suppliedx=Quantity of unitsy=Level of activity in the marketP=Price of each unit​
If the price of the item is zero, the quantity supplied will be a negative number which indicates no supplier will be willing nor able to produce such a product at a profitable price. Instead, at a higher price, more suppliers will be willing to manufacture an item as it becomes more profitable the higher the unit price.






Supply chain issues relate to constraints to delivering goods to the market. This may refer to an adequate amount of supply not being able to be manufactured or there being distribution issues in distributing the supply,


   Related Terms and Concepts  

The concept of supply is engrained in many economic concepts. Below are several associated terms or functions of economics that interact with supply.


  Demand  

The contrasting economic concept to supply is demand. Demand represents the consumer's desire to obtain a product. When a broad set of consumers are more willing to buy a product or service, that product or service is said to have higher demand.



Like supply, demand is directly related to a given price. For example, most consumers would be interested in the latest smartphone if the given market price was $1. Increasing the price to $1,000 shifts broad consumer desire for the product. All else being equal, price and demand are inversely related; as one increases, the other decreases).


  Supply Curve  

The supply curve is a graphic representation of the relationship between the cost of an item and the quantity the market will supply at that cost. All else being equal, the supply curve is upward sloping in that as the price (y-axis) of a good increases, more market participants are willing to supply (x-axis).


  Equilibrium  

Economic equilibrium occurs when supply and demand are equal. It is the price point when the supply curve and demand curve overlap. At equilibrium, the market will agree on the given market price.


  Monopoly  

A monopoly is a condition in which one seller controls the supply side of the market. Government regulation often attempts to control market conditions to ensure fair competition on the supply side. This is to ensure consumers are able to buy goods at a fair price instead of a single supplier dictating what the market price will be.


  Competition  

To avoid a monopoly, there must be competition. This means different companies must supply similar goods to consumers. Consumers then must choose which items to buy. Competition is meant to breed price competition, innovation, and market control to ensure that a single market participant doesn't have too much power over consumers.


  Oversupply  

Oversupply occurs when there is an excessive abundance of an item that consumer demand can't satiate. Consider an abundant harvest that results in an oversupply of crops; a result impact may be reduced prices to consumers to further incentivize consumption of this good compared to a scarcer good.


  Scarcity  

Scarcity is the opposite of oversupply. Consider a failed crop year ruined by inclement weather. Because less supply is available, it may be more difficult for consumers to obtain a specific good. This may be prevalent due to supply chain issues causing manufacturing delays or government policies pausing specific activity.


   Suppy Elasticity  

Price elasticity measures how the quantity of goods available will respond to a change in the unit's price. An elastic supply means that a small change in market prices will result in a relatively large change in the availability of that good from suppliers. An inelastic supply refers to goods whose supply does not change significantly in response to price changes.
Consider a product where a sudden surge of demand causes the price to increase by 10%. Suppliers of that product may start producing more of that product in order to take advantage of higher profit margins. If the supply available increases by more than 10%, the good is considered elastic. If the supply increase is lower than 10%, it is considered relatively inelastic.
Elasticity can be determined from the slope of the supply function. A relatively steep supply curve indicates a large response to price changes, indicating an elastic supply. If the supply curve appears relatively flat, then supply is inelastic.
The elasticity of the supply function at a given point can be expressed by the formula:









Elasticity


=




%


 Change in Supply



% Change in price








\begin{aligned}\text{Elasticity}=\frac{\%\text{ Change in Supply}}{\text{\% Change in price}}\end{aligned}


Elasticity=% Change in price% Change in Supply​​
If the calculated elasticity is greater than 1, the supply of that good is considered relatively elastic. If it is less than one, it is considered inelastic.






Goods that are relatively easy to produce and bring to market tend to have an elastic supply since producers can quickly respond to price changes. Goods whose supply is limited tend to be inelastic. For example, housing has an inelastic supply since it can take many years to bring new units to the market.


   Supply Curve  

Below is a visual depiction of supply; as price (y-axis) increases, more market participants are willing to supply the product as this increases profit margin and profitability. The slope of the supply curve may be steeper for items with less price sensitivity or more gradual for items more sensitive to price changes.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019​


  Movement Along a Supply Curve  

When the price of a product changes, the equilibrium point along the existing supply curve will simply change. For example, imagine a current level of supply for a good whose price is $100. Should that product's price decrease to $90, the level of supply can be found by moving along the existing supply curve down to when the price is $90.


  Shift in Supply Curve  

When a non-price determinant has an external impact on supply, the entire supply curve will shift. For example, consider technological innovations that influence how much of a good can be delivered. Instead of simply being a different point along an existing curve, the entire supply curve will move, and a new equilibrium point will exist on the new line.


   Law of Supply and Demand  

The concept of supply is a cornerstone is the economic pillar of the law of supply and demand. Consider how consumers want to buy products for as low as possible, while manufacturers/retailers want to sell products for as high as possible. The point at which supply and demand meet is what sets the market price.



The relationship between supply and demand is constantly evolving, as market demands, raw material constraints, and consumer preferences consistently shift both curves. All else being equal if the supply of a product outweighs the demand, the price of the good will fall. Alternatively, if the demand for a product outweighs the supply, the price will rise.



These (and other) outcomes can be graphically depicted using both the supply and demand curves. As the supply curve is upward-sloping to the right and the demand curve is downward-sloping to the right, the two curves often intersect (at the market price for a given level of supply/demand). Movements along or shifts in the supply curve will have a residual impact on the intersecting point with demand.


   Factors That Affect Supply  

As a consumer considers whether or not to increase production, there are a number of items it must keep in mind. Alternatively, there are considerations from the buyer and external, independent parties that also dictate levels of supply. Factors that affect supply include:



Consumer Demand. As more customers demand a good, companies will focus on increasing the supply of that good. Though this may increase inventory, this may also be an indicator that high demand will cause inventory shortages until long-term production can meet short-term market demand.
Material Costs and Availability. Manufacturers are often limited by the products used in the manufacturing process. Whether it is shortages of specific goods or delays in the delivery process, a company can only make a product if it has the consumable goods to convert into a final product.
Technological Innovation. Companies that have invested more heavily in technology and innovation will likely have greater capabilities. Whether it is shorter machine downtime, more efficient use of materials, or shorter manufacturing time, the equipment and machinery used directly relate to how many goods a company can expect to manufacture and supply to the market in a given period of time.
Government Policy. Some policies may limit production or impose disincentives that make a company not want to supply markets with specific goods. Alternatively, companies may receive tax incentives or subsidies to ramp up production. In either case, the government directly influences the quantity of product released to the market.
Natural Factors. Should inclement weather damage crops, the agriculture sector may have no choice but to undersupply the market. On the other hand, favorable weather may result in the strongest yields.
Economic Conditions. As macroeconomic conditions worsen, companies may choose to slow production, decrease long-term investments, or wait to react to consumer demand and make products accordingly. Alternatively, should credit be easily accessible for cheap, companies may be more likely to build inventory, incur additional expenses, and risk manufacturing additional goods to experiment in new markets.


   Types of Supply  
  Short-Term Supply  

Short-term supply is the inventory immediately available for consumption. When short-term supply has been exhausted, consumers must wait for additional manufacturing or production for more goods to become available. Short-term supply is the maximum amount consumers can immediately purchase.


  Long-Term Supply  

Long-term supply considers consumer demand, material availability, capital investment, and macroeconomic conditions. These factors all dictate how a company should shift manufacturing to meet long-term demand. Though long-term supply may only be able to grow gradually over time, suppliers have greater control over increasing or decreasing long-term supply by enacting operational strategies.


  Joint Supply  

Joint supply occurs when the manufacturing of one good will result in the byproduct of another good. Regardless of the demand for the byproduct good, it may be manufactured and supplied simply in response for demand of the other product. For example, the production of crude petroleum results in gasoline, fuel oil, kerosene, and asphalt. The supply of one item may increase simply due to greater demand of other items.


  Market Supply  

Market supply refers to the daily supply of goods often with a very short-term usable life. For example, grocery stores may measure their market supply of fresh produce or fish. Each of these goods is exclusively dependent on the supplier's ability to harvest these products, as additional supply may be out of the control of the farmer.


  Composite Supply  

Opposite of joint supply, composite supply is the offering of a product that is multiple products packaged together. Both products must be offered together, and the maximum supply is equal to the smaller of the two products. For example, a company manufacturers pints of ice cream that are sold along with compostable spoons. Neither product is sold individually. In this example, the amount of composite supply is the lower of the quantity of pints of ice cream or composable spoons.






Though the supply curve is often a curving, upward-sloping line, there may be exceptions based on the supply and market conditions for a given product.


   Exceptions to the Law of Supply  

The rules of the supply curve are often consistent. However, there are situations where the rules of supply are broken, and exceptions to the economic concept yield abnormal results.



Business Closures. When companies are being liquidated or forced to sell assets, they may be incentivized or required to sell inventory and convert goods to cash. This may be the case even when goods are being sold at a less-than-favorable price.Uncontrollable Products. Consider how limited resources such as farmland constrain the amount of supply. Even if prices turn more favorably for farmers, it may be difficult for industries with supply constraints to manufacture more goods.Monopolistic Industries. The basic laws of supply are foregone when only a single commodity seller exists. This single seller may be the price maker and may dictate how many items are placed on the market at any given price.Perishable Goods. Certain goods may have a limited shelf life. At a given point, companies may be incentivized to sell a product at a lower price to yield any level of revenue (as opposed to a total loss).Rare/Collectible Items. A price premium often occurs for rare or collectible items whose supply may be reduced to a single instance. For this reason, there may be a steeper, less predictable supply curve that only exists at certain levels of supply.


   Use of Supply in Macroeconomics  

Money supply refers specifically to the entire stock of currency and liquid assets in a country. Economists will analyze and monitor this supply, formulating policies and regulations based on its fluctuation through controlling interest rates and other such measures. Official data on a country’s money supply must be accurately recorded and made public periodically. The European sovereign debt crisis, which began in 2009, is a good example of the role of a country’s money supply and the global economic impact.



Global supply chain finance is another important concept related to supply in today’s globalized world. Supply chain finance aims to effectively link all tenets of a transaction, including the buyer, seller, financing institution—and by proxy the supplier—to lower overall financing costs and speed up the process of business. Supply chain finance is often made possible through a technology-based platform and is affecting industries such as the automobile and retail sectors.




What Are the 3 Types of Supply?
Supply may be broken into total supply, short-term supply, and long-term supply. Each measures the amount of goods available in a market differently, and different agencies may use each set of information differently.




What Factors Impact Supply?
Supply is usually most directly related to price; as the price of a good increases or decreases, producers may be more or less inclined to produce that good based on anticipated profit margins. For a similar reason, the cost of production and a company's ability to incur expenses related to increasing supply also impact supply amounts.Supply may be externally influenced by outside factors such as government policy. Consider how environmental laws place constraints on how much oil may be drilled.




What Is the Importance of Supply?
Many consumers are interested in supply because of its impact on price; should a manufacturer oversupply the market, consumers may receive a price discount. However, supply is related to so many additional important concepts. An efficient supply chain minimizes delays, reduces costs, and helps markets perform to their full potential.


   The Bottom Line  

A cornerstone of economic theory is the concept of supply, the number of goods provided to a market for consumption. The idea of supply pairs with the idea of demand, and these two concepts intertwine to create a market equilibrium that often defines the prices consumers pay and the supply level manufacturers strive for.
What Is a Supply Chain?  

A supply chain is a network of individuals and companies who are involved in creating a product and delivering it to the consumer. Links on the chain begin with the producers of the raw materials and end when the van delivers the finished product to the end user.



Supply chain management is a crucial process because an optimized supply chain results in lower costs and a more efficient production cycle. Companies seek to improve their supply chains so they can reduce their costs and remain competitive.





Key Takeaways

A supply chain is a network of companies and people that are involved in the production and delivery of a product or service.The components of a supply chain include producers, vendors, warehouses, transportation companies, distribution centers, and retailers.The functions of a supply chain include product development, marketing, operations, distribution, finance, and customer service.Today, many supply chains are global in scale.Effective supply chain management results in lower costs and a faster production cycle.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Understanding a Supply Chain  

A supply chain includes every step that is involved in getting a finished product or service to the customer. The steps may include sourcing raw materials, moving them to production, then transporting the finished products to a distribution center or retail store where they may be delivered to the consumer.



The entities involved in the supply chain include producers, vendors, warehouses, transportation companies, distribution centers, and retailers.



The supply chain begins operating when a business receives an order from a customer. Thus, its essential functions include product development, marketing, operations, distribution networks, finance, and customer service.



When supply chain management is effective, it can lower a company's overall costs and boost its profitability. If one link breaks, it can affect the rest of the chain and can be costly.


   What Are the Main Supply Chain Models?  

Many types of supply chain models are available. The model a company selects will depend on how the company is structured and what its specific needs are. Here are a few examples:



Continuous Flow Model: This traditional supply chain model works well for companies that produce the same products with little variation. The products should be in high demand and require little to no redesign. This lack of fluctuation means managers can streamline production times and keep tight control over inventory. In a continuous flow model, managers will need to regularly replenish raw materials in order to prevent production bottlenecks.
Fast Chain Model: This model works best for companies that sell products based on the latest trends. Businesses that use this model need to get their products to market quickly to take advantage of the prevailing trend. They need to rapidly move from idea to prototype to production to consumer. Fast fashion is an example of an industry that uses this supply chain model.
Flexible Model: Companies that manufacture seasonal or holiday merchandise often use the flexible model. These companies experience surges in demand for their products followed by long periods of little to no demand. The flexible model ensures they are able to gear up quickly to begin production and shut down efficiently as soon as demand tapers off. In order to be profitable, they must be accurate in forecasting their need for raw materials, inventory, and labor.


   What Are Supply Chain Management Best Practices?  

Here are some of the best practices that are seen in successful supply chain management systems:



They support continuous improvement.They aim for increased velocity.They encourage collaboration among the individual businesses in the supply chain.They seek new technologies that improve their processes.They have metrics in place that allow employees to measure the success or failure of each step in the supply chain.


   What Is Supply Chain Management vs. Business Logistics Management?  

The terms supply chain management (SCM) and business logistics management—or simply, logistics—are often used interchangeably. However, logistics is really one link in the supply chain.



Logistics deals with the planning and control of the movement and storage of goods and services from their point of origin to their final destination.



Successful logistics management ensures that there is no delay in delivery at any point in the chain and that products and services are delivered in good condition. This, in turn, helps keep the company's costs down.


   What Is the Flow of Manufacturing Costs?  

Efficient supply chain systems get each piece of the product where it is needed, when it is needed. This means controlling the flow of manufacturing costs.



The flow of manufacturing costs is most relevant to businesses that produce products that require many different parts from many vendors. For example, a clothing manufacturer may need deliveries of fabric, zippers, trim, and thread to arrive all at the same time. If some supplies arrive too early, they must be stored at the business' expense. If some arrive late, the machines stand idle while they wait.


   Reliable Suppliers Are Key  

An efficient supply chain management process requires reliable suppliers. This means they produce a product that meets the manufacturer’s specifications and deliver it on time.



Assume, for example, that XYZ Furniture manufactures high-end furniture, and that a supplier provides metal handles and other attachments. The metal components need to be durable so that they last for many years. They must meet the design and quality specified by the manufacturer, and they must work as intended.



A reliable supplier will fill the manufacturer’s order and ship the parts on time.


   Does the Supply Chain Cause Deflation?  

The increased efficiencies of supply chains have played a significant role in curbing inflation. As efficiencies in moving products from point A to point B increase, the costs in doing so decrease, which lowers the final cost to the consumer. While deflation is often regarded as a negative, supply chain efficiencies are one of the few examples in which it is a good thing.



As globalization increases, supply chain efficiencies become more optimized, which keeps the pressure on input prices.


   How Did COVID-19 Affect the Supply Chain?  

One of the most severe economic problems caused by the COVID-19 pandemic was damage to the supply chain. Its effects touched nearly every sector of the economy.



Supplies of products of all kinds were delayed due to ever-changing restrictions at national borders and long backups in ports.



At the same time, demand for products changed abruptly. Shortages developed as consumers hoarded essentials like toilet paper and baby formula. Masks, cleaning wipes, and hand sanitizers were suddenly in demand. Shortages of computer chips delayed the delivery of a wide range of products from electronics to toys and cars.


  Shifting Priorities  

A survey in late 2020 by Ernst & Young of 200 senior-level supply chain executives pointed to three essential findings:



The pandemic had a deep negative effect, cited by 72% of supply chain executives. Automotive and industrial supplies companies were worse-hit.



"Visibility" is the top priority, and the word is meant literally. The executives want to focus on adding technology such as sensors that give them a better view of their orders throughout the process.



The pandemic accelerated the transition to digitization, with most of those surveyed saying that digital transformation combined with increased automation will accelerate over the next few years.




What Is Supply Chain Management?
Supply chain management (SCM) is oversight and control of all the activities required for a company to convert raw materials into finished products that are then sold to end-users.SCM provides centralized control for the planning, design, manufacturing, inventory, and distribution phases required to produce and sell a company's products.A goal of supply chain management is to improve efficiency by coordinating the efforts of the various entities in the supply chain. This can result in a company achieving a competitive advantage over its rivals and enhancing the quality of the products it produces, both of which can lead to increased sales and revenue.




What Are the Steps in a Supply Chain?
The key steps in a supply chain include:Planning the inventory and manufacturing processes to ensure supply and demand are adequately balanced.Manufacturing or sourcing materials needed to create the final product.Assembling parts and testing the product.Packaging the product for shipment or holding in inventory until a later date.Transporting and delivering the finished product to the distributor, retailer, or consumer.Providing customer service support for returned items.




What Is an Example of a Supply Chain?
A supply chain begins with the sourcing of raw materials, whether that means mining diamonds, curing leather, or manufacturing sheet metal.That is the first step in the process. From there, the raw materials are hauled to a wholesaler, who sells them in batches to manufacturers. Once delivered, the manufacturer uses the materials to create a product, which is then delivered to a retailer. Finally, it is sold to a consumer.That's the big picture, but note that each step in the process is complicated by the need to prepare, package, ship, and unpack the product at each of its successive destinations.
What Is Supply Chain Finance?  

Supply chain finance (SCF) is a term describing a set of technology-based solutions that aim to lower financing costs and improve business efficiency for buyers and sellers linked in a sales transaction. SCF methodologies work by automating transactions and tracking invoice approval and settlement processes, from initiation to completion. Under this paradigm, buyers agree to approve their suppliers' invoices for financing by a bank or other outside financier--often referred to as "factors." And by providing short-term credit that optimizes working capital and provides liquidity to both parties, SCF offers distinct advantages to all participants. While suppliers gain quicker access to money they are owed, buyers get more time to pay off their balances. On either side of the equation, the parties can use the cash on hand for other projects to keep their respective operations running smoothy.





Key Takeaways

Supply chain finance is a set of tech-based business and financing processes that lower costs and improve efficiency for the parties involved in a transaction.Supply chain finance works best when the buyer has a better credit rating than the seller and can thus access capital at a lower cost.Supply chain finance provides short-term credit that optimizes working capital for both the buyers and the sellers.


   How Supply Chain Finance Works  

Supply chain finance works best when the buyer has a better credit rating than the seller, and can consequently source capital from a bank or other financial provider at a lower cost. This advantage lets buyers negotiate better terms from the seller, such as extended payment schedules. Meanwhile, the seller can unload its products more quickly, to receive immediate payment from the intermediary financing body.



Supply chain finance, often referred to as "supplier finance" or "reverse factoring," encourages collaboration between buyers and sellers. This philosophically counters the competitive dynamic that typically arises between these two parties. After all, under traditional circumstances, buyers attempt to delay payment, while sellers look to be paid as soon as possible.


   Example of Supply Chain Finance  

A typical extended payables transaction works as follows: Let’s say the buyer, Company ABC, purchases goods from the seller, Supplier XYZ. Under traditional circumstances, Supplier XYZ ships the goods, then submits an invoice to Company ABC, which approves the payment on standard credit terms of 30 days. But if Supplier XYZ is in dire need of cash, it may request immediate payment, at a discount, from Company ABC's affiliated financial institution. If this is granted, that financial institution issues payment to Supplier XYZ, and in turn, extends the payment period for Company ABC, for an additional further 30 days, for a total credit term of 60 days, rather than the 30 days mandated by Supplier XYZ.






Supply chain finance has been primarily driven by the increasing globalization and complexity of the supply chain, especially in the automotive and manufacturing industries.


   Special Considerations  

According to the Global Supply Chain Finance Forum, a consortium of industry associations, SCF has recently slowed down due to the complicated accounting and capital treatment associated with this practice, mainly in response to increased regulatory and reporting requirements.
What Is Supply Chain Management (SCM)?  

Supply chain management is the management of the flow of goods and services and includes all processes that transform raw materials into final products. It involves the active streamlining of a business's supply-side activities to maximize customer value and gain a competitive advantage in the marketplace.





Key Takeaways

Supply chain management (SCM) is the centralized management of the flow of goods and services and includes all processes that transform raw materials into final products.By managing the supply chain, companies can cut excess costs and deliver products to the consumer faster and more efficiently.Good supply chain management keeps companies out of the headlines and away from expensive recalls and lawsuits. The five most critical elements of SCM are developing a strategy, sourcing raw materials, production, distribution, and returns.A supply chain manager is tasked with controlling and reducing costs and avoiding supply shortages.












Investopedia / Alex Dos Diaz


   How Supply Chain Management (SCM) Works  

Supply chain management (SCM) represents an effort by suppliers to develop and implement supply chains that are as efficient and economical as possible. Supply chains cover everything from production to product development to the information systems needed to direct these undertakings.



Typically, SCM attempts to centrally control or link the production, shipment, and distribution of a product. By managing the supply chain, companies can cut excess costs and deliver products to the consumer faster. This is done by keeping tighter control of internal inventories, internal production, distribution, sales, and the inventories of company vendors.



SCM is based on the idea that nearly every product that comes to market results from the efforts of various organizations that make up a supply chain. Although supply chains have existed for ages, most companies have only recently paid attention to them as a value-add to their operations.


   5 Parts of SCM  

The supply chain manager tries to minimize shortages and keep costs down. The job is not only about logistics and purchasing inventory. According to Salary.com, supply chain managers “oversee and manage overall supply chain and logistic operations to maximize efficiency and minimize the cost of organization's supply chain."



Productivity and efficiency improvements can go straight to the bottom line of a company. Good supply chain management keeps companies out of the headlines and away from expensive recalls and lawsuits. In SCM, the supply chain manager coordinates the logistics of all aspects of the supply chain which consists of the following five parts.


  Planning  

To get the best results from SCM, the process usually begins with planning to match supply with customer and manufacturing demands. Firms must predict what their future needs will be and act accordingly. This relates to raw materials needed during each stage of manufacturing, equipment capacity and limitations, and staffing needs along the SCM process. Large entities often rely on ERP system modules to aggregate information and compile plans.


  Sourcing  

Efficient SCM processes rely very heavily on strong relationships with suppliers. Sourcing entails working with vendors to supply the raw materials needed throughout the manufacturing process. A company may be able to plan and work with a supplier to source goods in advance. However, different industries will have different sourcing requirements. In general, SCM sourcing includes ensuring:



the raw materials meet the manufacturing specification needed for the production of goods.the prices paid for the goods are in line with market expectations.the vendor has the flexibility to deliver emergency materials due to unforeseen events.the vendor has a proven record of delivering goods on time and in good quality.



Supply chain management is especially critical when manufacturers are working with perishable goods. When sourcing goods, firms should be mindful of lead time and how well a supplier can comply with those needs.


  Manufacturing  

At the heart of the supply chain management process, the company transforms raw materials by using machinery, labor, or other external forces to make something new. This final product is the ultimate goal of the manufacturing process, though it is not the final stage of supply chain management.



The manufacturing process may be further divided into sub-tasks such as assembly, testing, inspection, or packaging. During the manufacturing process, a firm must be mindful of waste or other controllable factors that may cause deviations from original plans. For example, if a company is using more raw materials than planned and sourced for due to a lack of employee training, the firm must rectify the issue or revisit the earlier stages in SCM.


  Delivering  

Once products are made and sales are finalized, a company must get the products into the hands of its customers. The distribution process is often seen as a brand image contributor, as up until this point, the customer has not yet interacted with the product. In strong SCM processes, a company has robust logistic capabilities and delivery channels to ensure timely, safe, and inexpensive delivery of products.



This includes having a backup or diversified distribution methods should one method of transportation temporarily be unusable. For example, how might a company's delivery process be impacted by record snowfall in distribution center areas?


  Returning  

The supply chain management process concludes with support for the product and customer returns. Its bad enough that a customer needs to return a product, and its even worse if its due to an error on the company's part. This return process is often called reverse logistics, and the company must ensure it has the capabilities to receive returned products and correctly assign refunds for returns received. Whether a company is performing a product recall or a customer is simply not satisfied with the product, the transaction with the customer must be remedied.



Many consider customer returns as an interaction between the customer and the company. However, a very important part of customer returns is the intercompany communication to identify defective products, expired products, or non-conforming goods. Without addressing the underlying cause of a customer return, the supply chain management process will have failed, and future returns will likely persist.


   SCM vs. Supply Chains  

A supply chain is the network of individuals, companies, resources, activities, and technologies used to make and sell a product or service. A supply chain starts with the delivery of raw materials from a supplier to a manufacturer and ends with the delivery of the finished product or service to the end consumer.



SCM oversees each touchpoint of a company's product or service, from initial creation to the final sale. With so many places along the supply chain that can add value through efficiencies or lose value through increased expenses, proper SCM can increase revenues, decrease costs, and impact a company's bottom line.


   Types of Supply Chain Models  

Supply chain management does not look the same for all companies. Each business has its own goals, constraints, and strengths that shape what its SCM process looks like. In general, there are often six different primary models a company can adopt to guide its supply chain management processes.



Continuous Flow Model: One of the more traditional supply chain methods, this model is often best for mature industries. The continuous flow model relies on a manufacturer producing the same good over and over and expecting customer demand will little variation.
Agile Model: This model is best for companies with unpredictable demand or customer-order products. This model prioritizes flexibility, as a company may have a specific need at any given moment and must be prepared to pivot accordingly.
Fast Model: This model emphasizes the quick turnover of a product with a short life cycle. Using a fast chain model, a company strives to capitalize on a trend, quickly produce goods, and ensure the product is fully sold before the trend ends.
Flexible Model: The flexible model works best for companies impacted by seasonality. Some companies may have much higher demand requirements during peak season and low volume requirements in others. A flexible model of supply chain management makes sure production can easily be ramped up or wound down.
Efficient Model: For companies competing in industries with very tight profit margins, a company may strive to get an advantage by making their supply chain management process the most efficient. This includes utilizing equipment and machinery in the most ideal ways in addition to managing inventory and processing orders most efficiently.
Custom Model: If any model above doesn't suit a company's needs, it can always turn towards a custom model. This is often the case for highly specialized industries with high technical requirements such as an automobile manufacturer.


   Example of SCM  

Understanding the importance of SCM to its business, Walgreens Boots Alliance Inc. decided to transform its supply chain by investing in technology to streamline the entire process. For several years the company has been investing and revamping its supply chain management process. Walgreens was able to use big data to help improve its forecasting capabilities and better manage the sales and inventory management processes.



This includes the 2019 addition of its first-ever Chief Supply Chain Officer, Colin Nelson. His role is to boost customer satisfaction as the company increases its digital presence. Beyond that, in 2021, it announced it would be offering free two-hour, same-day delivery for 24,000 products in its stores.




What Is a Supply Chain Management Example?
Supply chain management is the practice of coordinating the various activities necessary to produce and deliver goods and services to a business’s customers. Examples of supply chain activities can include designing, farming, manufacturing, packaging, or transporting.




Why Is Supply Chain Management Important?
Supply chain management is important because it can help achieve several business objectives. For instance, controlling manufacturing processes can improve product quality, reducing the risk of recalls and lawsuits while helping to build a strong consumer brand. At the same time, controls over shipping procedures can improve customer service by avoiding costly shortages or periods of inventory oversupply. Overall, supply chain management provides several opportunities for companies to improve their profit margins and is especially important for companies with large and international operations.




How Are Ethics and Supply Chain Management Related?
Ethics has become an increasingly important aspect of supply chain management, so much so that a set of principles called supply chain ethics was born. Consumers and investors are invested in how companies produce their products, treat their workforce, and protect the environment. As a result, companies respond by instituting measures to reduce waste, improve working conditions, and lessen the impact on the environment.




What Are the 5 Elements of Supply Chain Management?
Supply chain management has five key elements—planning, sourcing raw materials, manufacturing, delivery, and returns. The planning phase refers to developing an overall strategy for the supply chain, while the other four elements specialize in the key requirements for executing that plan. Companies must develop expertise in all five elements to have an efficient supply chain and avoid expensive bottlenecks.




What Element of the Marketing Mix Deals With Supply Chain Management?
Place is the marketing mix element that deals with supply chain management as it involves the processes that take goods and services from their raw beginnings to the ultimate destination—the customer.
What Is a Supply Curve?  

The supply curve is a graphic representation of the correlation between the cost of a good or service and the quantity supplied for a given period. In a typical illustration, the price will appear on the left vertical axis, while the quantity supplied will appear on the horizontal axis.





Key Takeaways

On most supply curves, as the price of a good increases, the quantity of goods supplied also increases.Supply curves can often show if a commodity will experience a price increase or decrease based on demand, and vice versa.The supply curve is shallower (closer to horizontal) for products with more elastic supply and steeper (closer to vertical) for products with less elastic supply.The supply curve, along with the demand curve, are the key components of the law of supply and demand.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   How a Supply Curve Works  

The supply curve will move upward from left to right, which expresses the law of supply: As the price of a given commodity increases, the quantity supplied increases (all else being equal).



Note that this formulation implies that price is the independent variable, and quantity the dependent variable. In most disciplines, the independent variable appears on the horizontal or x-axis, but economics is an exception to this rule.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019​



If a factor besides price or quantity changes, a new supply curve needs to be drawn. For example, say that some new soybean farmers enter the market, clearing forests and increasing the amount of land devoted to soybean cultivation. In this scenario, more soybeans will be produced even if the price remains the same, meaning that the supply curve itself shifts to the right (S2) in the graph below. In other words, supply will increase.






Technology is a leading cause of supply curve shifts.



Other factors can shift the supply curve as well, such as a change in the price of production. If a drought causes water prices to spike, the curve will shift to the left (S3). If the price of a substitute—from the supplier's perspective—such as corn increases, farmers will shift to growing that instead, and the supply of soybeans will decrease (S3).



If a new technology, such as a pest-resistant seed, increases yields, the supply curve will shift right (S2). If the future price of soybeans is higher than the current price, the supply will temporarily shift to the left (S3), since producers have an incentive to wait to sell.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019


   Supply Curve Example  

Should the price of soybeans rise, farmers will have an incentive to plant less corn and more soybeans, and the total quantity of soybeans on the market will increase. 



The degree to which rising prices translate into rising quantity is called supply elasticity or price elasticity of supply. If a 50% rise in soybean prices causes the number of soybeans produced to rise by 50%, the supply elasticity of soybeans is 1.



On the other hand, if a 50% rise in soybean prices only increases the quantity supplied by 10 percent, the supply elasticity is 0.2. The supply curve is shallower (closer to horizontal) for products with more elastic supply and steeper (closer to vertical) for products with less elastic supply.


   Special Considerations  

The terminology surrounding supply can be confusing. "Quantity" or "quantity supplied" refers to the amount of the good or service, such as tons of soybeans, bushels of tomatoes, available hotel rooms, or hours of labor. In everyday usage, this might be called the "supply," but in economic theory, "supply" refers to the curve shown above, denoting the relationship between quantity supplied and price per unit.



Other factors can also cause changes in the supply curve, such as technology. Any advances that increase production and make it more efficient can cause a shift to the right in the supply curve. Similarly, market expectations and the number of sellers (or competition) can affect the curve as well.


   What Is the Law of Supply and Demand?  

The law of supply and demand is an economics concept whereby the price of a good will reach an equilibrium based on the amount of that good available (the supply) and the amount that customers want (the demand).















Supply and Demand Equillibrium.
Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2020 


   What Is the Demand Curve?  

The demand curve is the complement to the supply curve, in the law of supply and demand. Unlike the supply curve, the demand curve is downward-sloping, since the higher the price of a good, the less demand there will be for it, all else equal.


   What Factors Can Affect the Supply Curve?  

The supply curve can shift based on several factors including changes in production costs (e.g., raw materials and labor costs), technological progress, the level of competition and number of sellers/producers, and the regulatory & tax environment.


   What Factors Can Affect the Demand Curve?  

Demand is influenced by the amount of disposable income available to consumers along with consumer preferences. The presence of viable substitutes or alternatives can also shift the demand curve.
What Is Supply Shock?  

A supply shock is an unexpected event that suddenly changes the supply of a product or commodity, resulting in an unforeseen change in price. Supply shocks can be negative, resulting in a decreased supply, or positive, yielding an increased supply. Assuming aggregate demand is unchanged, a negative (or adverse) supply shock causes a product’s price to spike upward, while a positive supply shock decreases the price.





Key Takeaways

A supply shock is an unexpected event that changes the supply of a product or commodity, resulting in a sudden change in price.A positive supply shock increases output, causing prices to decrease, while a negative supply shock decreases output, causing prices to increase.Supply shocks are caused by unforeseen events that reduce output or interrupt the supply chain, such as natural disasters or geopolitical events.Crude oil is a commodity that is considered vulnerable to negative supply shocks due to the political and social volatility of its Middle East source.


   Understanding Supply Shock  

A positive supply shock increases output, which causes prices to decrease due to a shift in the supply curve to the right, while a negative supply shock decreases production, which causes prices to rise. Supply shocks can be created by any unexpected event that constrains output or disrupts the supply chain, including natural disasters and geopolitical developments, such as acts of war or terrorism.



A commodity that is widely perceived as vulnerable to negative supply shocks is crude oil, because a majority of the world’s supply comes from the volatile Middle East region. As of 2021 the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) member nations, located in the Middle East, Africa, and South America, accounted for 80.4% of world oil reserves, with Middle East members alone accounting for 67.1% of that supply. Oil supply has also been affected by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, sending gas prices in the U.S. skyrocketing in 2022.


   Examples of Supply Shock  

The struggles of a single firm can cause a supply shock if the company is a large producer of high-demand products. According to reportage by CNBC, this was the case when Glencore announced in September 2015 its plans to close two major copper mines in the Democratic Republic of Congo and Zambia, removing 400,000 tonnes of copper from the global output. The decision came in response to a prolonged slump in copper prices. Therefore, this particular supply shock was positive for competing firms.



According to a report in The Economist, a slowdown in Chinese demand for copper caused prices to drop. For the previous decade, demand had grown at an annual rate of more than 10% until it fell to 3% to 4% in 2015. This drop in the price of copper highlights how a concentrated change in demand can influence prices. A change in demand must be abrupt and perceived as temporary to qualify as a shock, as is the case on the supply side.




What Does a Supply Shock Look Like?
A supply shock occurs when an unpredictable event happens that suddenly either decreases or increases the supply of a product or commodity. The former causes a price rise, while the latter results in a price decrease.




What Kind of Events Cause Supply Shocks?
They can be anything from a natural disaster to an economic recession to a pandemic to an act of war or terrorism. Technological breakthroughs can also be a culprit, as can political acts, such as the 1973 oil embargo organized by OPEC in response to the Arab-Israeli War.




Did the COVID-19 Pandemic Cause Supply Shocks?
COVID-19 caused both supply shocks and demand shocks. For instance, because of social distancing and lockdowns, workers weren't able to be on manufacturing production lines, so there were shortages of goods. And consumers weren't going to restaurants and salons, so there was a demand shock in these and other sectors.




How Long Do Supply Shocks Last?
Supply shocks can be either temporary, such as those caused by the global financial crisis of 2009, or permanent, such as the introduction of fracking technology, which resulted in the U.S. becoming a net energy exporter in 2019, the first time this had happened since 1952. According to the World Bank in 2020, permanent shocks accounted for 47% of price variability, with temporary ones mounting up to 53%.
What Is Support?  

Support, or a support level, refers to the price level that an asset does not fall below for period of time. An asset's support level is created by buyers entering the market whenever the asset dips to a lower price. In technical analysis, the simple support level can be charted by drawing a line along the lowest lows for the time period being considered. The support line can be flat or slanted up or down with the overall price trend. Other technical indicators and charting techniques can be used to identify more advanced versions of support.





Key Takeaways

The support level represents a price point that an asset struggles to fall below over a given time period.Support levels can be visualized using different technical indicators or simply by drawing a line connecting the lowest lows for the period.Applying trendlines or incorporating moving averages provides a more dynamic view of support.


   What Do Support Levels Tell You?  

In general finance terms, support level is the level at which buyers tend to purchase or enter into a stock. It refers to the stock share price that a company rarely goes below. When a price of stock falls towards its support level, the support level holds and is confirmed, or the stock continues to decline and the previously demonstrated support level must change to incorporate the new lows. Support levels in stocks can be created by limit orders or simply the market action of traders and investors.



Support and resistance levels are at the core of technical analysis. Fundamental analysis takes a company's performance and history into account to determine the future direction of the stock, whereas technical analysis uses patterns and trends in price. Traders use support and resistance levels to plan entry and exit points for trades. If the price action on a chart breaches the support levels, it is seen as an opportunity to buy in or take a short position, depending on what the trader sees from other indicators. If the breach occurs on an uptrend, it may even be a sign of a reversal.






   Example of How to Use Support Levels  

Let’s say that you are studying the price history of the price of shares in the fictional Montreal Trucking Company, with the ticker symbol MTC. You are trying to identify an ideal time to enter a long position in the company. Over the past year, MTC has traded between $7 and $15 per share. During the second month of the period you’re studying MTC, the stock climbs to $15, but by month 4 it has fallen to $7. By month 7, it climbs again to $15, before falling to $10 in month 9. By month 11 it climbs once again to $15 and over the next 30 days it fall to $13 before climbing again to $15. 












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019



At this point, you have an established support level of $7 and a resistance at $15. If there are no other worrying factors on the technicals or fundamentals, you can set a buy order at the lower end of the range. If you set the order right at the support level of $7 there is a risk that an uptrend will establish and your order may never be executed despite the fact that you correctly identified the upside. This is another reason why it is important to consult more nuanced indicators besides simple support.


   The Difference Between Support Level and Resistance Level  

If the support level is the price that a stock does not go below, the resistance level is the a price point at which a stock has trouble growing past. Think of the the support level as the floor, and the resistance level as the ceiling.


   Limitations of Using Support  

Support is more of a market concept than a true technical indicator. There are many popular indicators that incorporate these concepts, like price by volume charts and moving averages, that are more actionable than the simpler visualizations. Generally traders will want to see the support band rather than a single line connecting the lowest lows as there is always a chance support will move up and the order for a long position will go un-executed.



Those interested in learning more about support and other aspects of technical analysis may want to considered enrolling in one of the best technical analysis courses.
What Does Supranational Mean?  

A supranational organization is a multinational union or association in which member countries cede authority and sovereignty on at least some internal matters to the group, whose decisions are binding on its members. In short, member states share in decision-making on matters that will affect each country's citizens.



The EU, United Nations, and the World Trade Organization (WTO) are all supranational groups, to one degree or another. In the EU, each member votes on policies that will affect each other member nation.



Such supranational organizations are seen by many as a better way to govern the affairs of nations, with an eye to preventing conflict and promoting cooperation, particularly on economic and military matters. Some critics, particularly those with nationalist tendencies, resent following internationally agreed rules and charge that adhering to the decisions of supranational organizations amounts to surrendering the sovereignty of member states and their people.





Key Takeaways

A supranational organization offers a way to set international rules governing the affairs of nations, with an eye to preventing conflicts.Countries that are members of supranational organizations such as the EU and World Trade Organization agree to cede sovereignty on some issues to the group.Supranational organizations often give member states greater collective influence in global affairs.The citizens of countries belonging to supranational organizations sometimes complain of "interference" in local affairs.


   Shifting Toward a Supranational Approach  

The creation of supranational groups marked an evolution of — or a break from, depending on your point of view — the Westphalian system in which nation-states were sovereign and answered to no one—whether in domestic affairs or international affairs, except in the case of violence or treaties.



Supranational thinking gained in prominence in the wake of the two world wars in the first half of the 20th century. To avoid more tragic, costly wars, nations were increasingly willing to cede sovereignty on some issues—usually related to trade and business—to a vote of the members of a supranational organization.






The EU, the closest thing to a truly supranational union the world has ever seen, was created in the 1950s to prevent neighboring countries from going to war. Its first iteration was the European Coal and Steel Community.


   The European Union  

The best example of a supranational entity—and the closest thing to a true supranational union the world has ever seen—is the EU. In the Europe Declaration of 1951, the founders of the first iteration of the EU—the European Coal and Steel Community—claimed to be creating the "first supranational institution" and thus "laying the true foundation of an organized Europe."



Following World War II, Albert Einstein even advocated for a supranational organization that would control military forces. Einstein suggested the organization include the U.S., Soviet Union, and Great Britain but such an organization was never formed.



The EU has evolved dramatically in the seven decades since the founding of the European Coal and Steel Community but its growth hasn't come without pain. A populist backlash over economic insecurity and globalization led people of Great Britain to take the unprecedented step of voting to leave the EU in 2016.
What Is a Surcharge?  

The term surcharge refers to an additional charge, fee, or tax that is added to the cost of a good or service beyond the initially quoted price. A surcharge is often added to an existing tax and is not included in the stated price of the good or service. The amount of a surcharge varies and can be a fixed amount or a percentage of This charge may be imposed because of a governing body's need for additional revenue or to defray the cost of increased commodity pricing.





Key Takeaways

A surcharge is an additional charge or tax that a company adds to the cost of a good or service.Surcharges are normally added to the price of goods and services at the point of sale on behalf of the government.Surcharges allow businesses to indirectly pass costs on to the consumer by listing a charge separately from the cost of the good or service.These fees may be fixed amounts or a percentage of the purchase price. Many industries, including travel, telecom, and cable, will add surcharges to offset the cost of higher prices, such as fuel, or regulatory fees imposed by the government.


   How Surcharges Work  

Surcharges are additional fees and/or taxes that consumers are required to pay when they buy certain goods and services. They are added to the purchase price at the point of sale. So when you make a purchase, the seller adds the surcharge at the register.



Surcharges may be set at specific dollar amounts, such as $5 per transaction. They may also be based on a percentage of the total price—usually a small fraction of the cost. The surcharge is only added to the retail price, which means it is not a taxable amount. It appears as a separate line item on your receipt.



Many entities, including governments, businesses, and service professionals assess surcharges. For example, taxi drivers may add a fuel surcharge of $1 when gas prices increase. The cost of some products and services does not include the added surcharge. Instead, the calculated fee is assessed upon acceptance or purchase of the item and appears in the contract or sales and purchase agreement (SPA).






Some surcharges are simply baked into the nature of the business. For example, restaurants may intentionally not serve condiment packets, as their business model may try to reduce costs by not handing out additional resources for free.


   Bank and Credit Card Surcharges  

The automated teller machine (ATM) fee is one that many consumers know very well. This surcharge is most often levied by the bank or other institution that owns and operates the machine. An ATM fee is shown as a set dollar amount per transaction. Most ATM providers waive fees for customers of the sponsoring ATM.



Some businesses have added surcharges to compensate for the costs associated with accepting credit cards. Another name for these fees is a checkout fee. This additional fee may be a specific dollar amount or a percentage of the total price of the goods or services purchased.


   Examples of Surcharges  

Many industries, such as the telecommunications and cable industries, regularly use surcharges to offset some of the costs imposed on businesses through local, state, or federal regulations. When these costs increase, companies may adjust surcharge amounts rather than the price of the goods they sell. The fee is still passed on to the consumer, but in a more indirect fashion.



If regulations raise the burden on a company by $1 per customer, the company may increase its regulatory recovery fee by $1. In this way, the company avoids having to absorb the loss or the full amount of the government fee, efficiently passing it on to the consumer.



Examples of surcharges include regulatory recovery fees added by cable companies to their customer's bills. These are imposed to offset the burden of certain service fees imposed by various government entities. They also apply fees for sports programming to offset the premium the cable provider pays for the ability to broadcast the events.



Other examples include:



Fuel surcharges
Emergency service fees on landline and wireless phone services
Hazardous waste disposal fees at the veterinarian's office
Disposal and handling fees for electronics
Minimum transaction fees (usually to use credit or debit cards)






Most surcharges are legal, though some states are taking action and disallowing certain types of surcharges. For instance, 2021 legislation out of Colorado imposed limits to how much a surcharge could be in certain cases.


   How To Avoid Surcharges  

There's a number of steps a consumer can take to avoid surcharges, regardless of the type or situation in which it occurs. For financial surcharges, many merchants add a surcharge if you pay with a credit card, especially if it's a small transaction. To avoid this surcharge, you can use a debit card or pay in cash.



Some surcharges arise due to being out of network. For example, if you use an ATM that's not affiliated with your bank, you may be charged a surcharge. To avoid this, understand the limitations of service and ask your bank or other network about your options. Always ensure receiving this information back in written form to substantiate any future confusion.



Surcharges often arise when you travel, such as an airline surcharge for checked baggage, roaming surcharges for using data in remote or international locations, or resort surcharges for additional amenities. Consider planning ahead, being mindful of where these charges may arise, and act accordingly by intentionally deciding against using companies with surcharges.



Last, always remember to read the fine print and terms and conditions. Regardless of what a customer service representative may tell you, you are bound to any agreement you have signed. This agreement will directly identify areas where you may face additional charges, as you should use it not only as a planning tool but a reference for future activity.




How Do Surcharges Work?
Surcharges are additional fees or taxes that are added to the purchase price of goods and services. Depending on the good or service, a surcharge can be flat fees or a percentage of the purchase price. It is added at the time of purchase by the seller or service provider. Surcharges are imposed by businesses, governments, service providers, and service professionals.




What Is a Broadcast TV Surcharge?
Television networks impose broadcast TV surcharges on cable providers to carry their signals over the airwaves. The fee is negotiable between networks and cable companies, and is allowed by federal law. Rather than increase the price of the service, the surcharge is passed on to cable company customers each month.




What Are Some Examples of Surcharges?
Examples of surcharges include ATM fees, fuel surcharges, broadcast TV surcharges, disposal fees, handling fees, hazardous waste fees, filing fees, tips and gratuities, processing fees, convenience fees, and checkout fees.




Which States Allow Credit Card Surcharges?
Credit card surcharging is a fee structure that allows credit card companies to charge consumers to process transactions. Although surcharging isn't illegal across the United States, there are certain jurisdictions where companies can't impose these fees on their customers, including Connecticut, Massachusetts, and Puerto Rico. Anti-surcharging laws are limited or cannot be enforced in California, Florida, Kansas, Maine, New York, Oklahoma, Texas, and Utah.


   The Bottom Line  

Many people pay surcharges without the blink of an eye. But not everyone understands what they are and why they're imposed. Surcharges are fees that are tacked onto the price of goods and services. Surcharges are either a fixed amount or a percentage of the purchase price. They come in many forms, including service fees, handling fees, disposal fees, and processing fees. They may be imposed by the service provider or another entity, including the government. Whether you like them or not, there's no way to avoid them. But understanding what they are may be able to help you be comfortable with the extra cost.
What Is Surety?  

The surety is the guarantee of the debts of one party by another. A surety is a person or an organization that assumes the responsibility of paying the debt in case the debtor policy defaults or is unable to make the payments. The party that guarantees the debt is referred to as the surety or the guarantor.



A surety is not an insurance policy. The payment made to the surety company is paying for the bond, but the principal is still liable for the debt. The surety is only required to relieve the obligee of the time and resources that will be used to recover any loss or damage from a principal.



A surety is most common in contracts in which one party questions whether the counterparty in the contract will be able to fulfill all requirements. The party may require the counterparty to come forward with a guarantor to reduce risk, with the guarantor entering into a contract of suretyship. This is intended to lower risk to the lender, which might, in turn, lower interest rates for the borrower. A surety can be in the form of a surety bond.





Key Takeaways

A surety is a person or party that takes responsibility for the debt, default, or other financial responsibilities of another party.A surety is often used in contracts in which one party’s financial holdings or well-being are in question and the other party wants a guarantor.Surety bonds are financial instruments that tie the principal, the obligee—often a government entity—and the surety.In the case of surety bonds, the surety is providing a line of credit to the principal to reassure the obligee that the principal will fulfill their side of the agreement.


   What Is a Surety Bond?  

A surety bond is a legally binding contract entered into by three parties: the principal, the obligee, and the surety. The obligee, usually a government entity, requires the principal, typically a business owner or contractor, to obtain a surety bond as a guarantee against future work performance.



The surety is the company that provides a line of credit to guarantee payment of any claim. They provide a financial guarantee to the obligee that the principal will fulfill their obligations. A principal’s obligations could mean complying with state laws and regulations pertaining to a specific business license, or meeting the terms of a construction contract.



If the principal fails to deliver on the terms of the contract entered into with the obligee, then the obligee has the right to file a claim against the bond to recover any damages or losses incurred. If the claim is valid, the surety company will pay reparation that cannot exceed the bond amount. The underwriters will then expect the principal to reimburse them for any claims paid.


   Important Surety Distinctions  

The claim amount is still retrieved from the principal, either through collateral posted by the principal or through other means.



A surety is not a bank guarantee. Where the surety is liable for any performance risk posed by the principal, the bank guarantee is liable for the financial risk of the contracted project.




What is the purpose of a surety?
A surety is the guarantee of the debts of one party by another. This is intended to lower risk to the lender, which might, in turn, lower interest rates for the borrower.




What is a surety limit?
A surety bond protects an obligee against losses, up to the limit of the bond. The bond amount is the monetary limit up to which the obligee requires the bond to be issued.




What are the benefits available to a surety?
Surety bonds provide a defense against false claims and act as clear-cut representation when claims occur. Because surety bonds also lower risk for lenders, they can reduce interest rates for borrowers.


   The Bottom Line  

A surety is a person or party that takes responsibility for the debt, default, or other financial responsibilities of another party. A surety is often used in contracts in which one party’s financial holdings or well-being are in question and the other party wants a guarantor.



Surety bonds are financial instruments that tie the principal, the obligee—often a government entity—and the surety. In the case of surety bonds, the surety is providing a line of credit to the principal so as to reassure the obligee that the principal will fulfill their side of the agreement.
What Is a Surplus?  

A surplus describes the amount of an asset or resource that exceeds the portion that's actively utilized. A surplus can refer to a host of different items, including income, profits, capital, and goods. In the context of inventories, a surplus describes products that remain sitting on store shelves, unpurchased. In budgetary contexts, a surplus occurs when income earned exceeds expenses paid. A budget surplus can also occur within governments when there's leftover tax revenue after all government programs are fully financed.





Key Takeaways

A surplus describes a level of an asset that exceeds the portion used. An inventory surplus occurs when products remain unsold.Budgetary surpluses occur when income earned exceeds expenses paid.A surplus results from a disconnect between supply and demand for a product, or when some people are willing to pay more for a product than other consumers.Typically, a surplus causes a market disequilibrium in the supply and demand of a product. This imbalance can sometimes mean that the product cannot efficiently flow through the market.












Investopedia / Matthew Collins


   Understanding a Surplus  

A surplus isn't necessarily desirable. For example, a manufacturer who over-projects future demand for a given product may create too many unsold units, which may consequently contribute to quarterly or annual financial losses. A surplus of perishable commodities like grains could cause a permanent loss, as inventory spoils and the items become unsellable.


   Economic Surplus  

There are two types of economic surplus: consumer surplus and producer surplus. As a rule, consumer surplus and producer surplus are mutually exclusive, in that what's good for one is bad for the other.


  Consumer Surplus  

A consumer surplus occurs when the price for a product or service is lower than the highest price a consumer would willingly pay. Think of an auction, where a buyer holds in his mind a price limit he will not exceed, for a certain painting he fancies. A consumer surplus occurs if this buyer ultimately purchases the artwork for less than his predetermined limit. In another example, let's assume the price per barrel of oil drops, causing gas prices to dip below the price a driver is accustomed to shelling out at the pump. In this case, the consumer profits with a surplus.


  Producer Surplus  

A producer surplus occurs when goods are sold at a higher price than the lowest price the producer was willing to sell for. In the same auction context, if an auction house sets the opening bid at the lowest price it would comfortably sell a painting, a producer surplus occurs if buyers create a bidding war, thus causing the item to sell for a higher price, far above the opening minimum.


   Reasons for Surplus  

A surplus occurs when there is some sort of disconnect between supply and demand for a product, or when some people are willing to pay more for a product than others. Hypothetically speaking, if there were a set price for a certain popular doll, that everyone was unanimously expected and willing to pay, neither a surplus nor a shortage would occur. But this rarely happens in practice, because various people and businesses have different price thresholds—both when buying and selling.



Sellers are constantly competing with other vendors to move as much product as possible, at the best value. If demand for the product spikes, the vendor offering the lowest price may run out of supply, which tends to result in general market price increases, causing a producer surplus. The opposite occurs if prices go down, and supply is high, but there is not enough demand, consequently resulting in a consumer surplus.



Surpluses often occur when the cost of a product is initially set too high, and nobody is willing to pay that price. In such instances, companies often sell the product at a lower cost than initially hoped, in order to move stock.






2001 was the last year the U.S. federal government had a budget surplus.


   Results of Surplus  

Surplus causes a market disequilibrium in the supply and demand of a product. This imbalance means that the product cannot efficiently flow through the market. Fortunately, the cycle of surplus and shortage has a way of balancing itself out.



Sometimes, to remedy this imbalance, the government will step in and implement a price floor or set a minimum price for which a good must be sold. This often results in higher price tags than consumers have been paying, thus benefiting the businesses.



More often than not, government intervention is not necessary, as this imbalance tends to naturally correct. When producers have a surplus of supply, they must sell the product at lower prices. Consequently, more consumers will purchase the product, now that it's cheaper. This results in supply shortages if producers cannot meet consumer demand. A shortage in supply causes prices to go back up, consequently causing consumers to turn away from the products because of high prices, and the cycle continues.






Budget surpluses are expected during periods of economic growth. During recessions, when consumer demand declines, budget deficits typically follow.


   Surplus vs. Deficit  

A deficit is essentially the opposite of a surplus. A deficit occurs when expenses exceed revenues, imports exceed exports or liabilities exceed assets, resulting in a negative balance. Just as a surplus is not always a positive sign, deficits are not always unintentional or the sign of a government or business that's in financial trouble. Businesses may deliberately run budget deficits to maximize future earnings opportunities—such as retaining employees during slow months to ensure themselves of an adequate workforce in busier times.



On the surface, a surplus is preferable to a deficit. However, this is an overly simplistic assumption. For example, a trade deficit is not inherently bad, as it can be indicative of a strong economy.



Deficits do carry risks if not handled properly or coupled with a large amount of debt. In the corporate world, running a deficit for too long a period can reduce the company's share value or even put it out of business.




What Is an Example of a Surplus?
Take this example of a consumer surplus. Let's say that you bought an airline ticket for a flight to Miami during school vacation week for $100, but you were expecting and willing to pay $300 for one ticket. The $200 represents your consumer surplus.




What Is a Surplus in Economics?
Economic surplus consists of consumer surplus and producer surplus. Consumer surplus occurs when the price for a product or service is lower than the highest price a consumer would willingly pay. A producer surplus is when goods are sold at a higher price than the lowest price the producer was willing to sell for.




What Is a Surplus Auction?
Surplus property is property the government does not need. Personal property includes assets ranging from office equipment and furniture to scientific equipment, heavy machinery, airplanes, vessels, and vehicles. If this property cannot be donated to a state or public agency, or nonprofit organization, the general public can buy it in an auction.




How Do You Calculate a Surplus?
Surplus is the amount of an asset or resource that exceeds the portion that is utilized. To calculate consumer surplus one merely needs to subtract the actual price the consumer paid by the amount they were willing to pay.


   The Bottom Line  

A surplus, generally speaking, occurs when there is more of something than is needed. At first glance, that might sound like a positive for everyone. However, in reality, when there’s a disconnect between supply and demand, somebody inevitably suffers and it doesn't always end well.



For example, when a business has excess stock and is forced to cut prices to offload what it cannot sell, its profits tighten and its stakeholders suffer while consumers happily capitalize. Conversely, a producer surplus works the other way around, benefiting the business and squeezing the income of consumers. Ideally, a balance is struck to keep all parties happy. Sometimes market dynamics can stray, though, and lead to a nasty recession if equilibrium isn't restored in time.
What Is Surplus Lines Insurance?  

Surplus lines insurance protects against a financial risk that is too great or too uncommon for a regular insurance company to take on. Surplus lines insurance can be purchased by individuals or companies.





Key Takeaways

Surplus lines insurance protects against a financial risk that a regular insurance company will not take on.Surplus lines insurance policies are available in a variety of types for both individuals and businesses.Surplus lines insurance is generally more expensive than regular insurance because the risks are higher.


   Understanding Surplus Lines Insurance  

Surplus lines insurance falls into the category of property and casualty insurance. In many cases, it is used to cover relatively new risks that conventional insurers shy away from because they lack historical data to properly price their policies.



“After the new coverage has generated sufficient data, it may become a more standard product and become available in the admitted market,” the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) says.



Unlike most types of insurance, surplus lines insurance can be sold by insurers that are not licensed in the buyer’s state. However, the surplus lines insurer must have a license in the state where it is based, and the brokers who sell surplus lines insurance must be licensed in their own state.



Surplus lines insurance carries additional risk for the policyholder: There is no guaranty fund from which to obtain a claim payment if the surplus lines insurer goes bankrupt, as is the case with standard insurance policies. A policyholder’s claim on a regular insurance policy is often paid out of a state guaranty fund, which is funded by other insurers in case one of them goes bankrupt. However, according to the NAIC, “the insolvency rate of surplus lines insurers has been historically low.”


   Who Sells Surplus Lines Insurance?  

The surplus lines insurance market is heavily dominated by insurers affiliated with the United Kingdom’s Lloyd’s of London insurance marketplace. Data from the Insurance Information Institute shows Lloyd’s insurers with 16.8% of the surplus lines market and $13.9 billion in direct premiums. Following Lloyd’s, surplus lines market share drops down to the single digits for all of the top 25 surplus lines insurers.



Examples of other top 25 surplus lines insurers include Berkshire Hathaway Insurance Group, American International Group (AIG), Markel Corporation Group, W.R. Berkley Insurance Group, Nationwide Group, Fairfax Financial (USA) Group, Chubb INA Group, and Liberty Mutual Insurance Companies.


   Types of Surplus Lines Insurance  

Surplus lines insurance can cover many different financial hazards. It is often used to cover what conventional insurers consider nonstandard risks.



For example, according to the Texas Department of Insurance, a business “might need liability coverage for a special event or to move hazardous materials.” Individuals may buy a surplus lines policy “if they can’t get homeowners insurance from a standard company,” the department says. “Others buy it to cover very costly items, like an expensive art or classic car collection.”



In some cases, surplus lines insurance can also provide coverage limits beyond what conventional insurers are willing to provide.



States maintain export lists, showing the kinds of insurance that may be unobtainable through regular, state-licensed insurance companies in their state, making surplus lines coverage eligible for sale and purchase there. In California, for example, the list includes (among many other things) insurance to cover kidnap and ransom, amusement parks and carnivals, sawmills, demolition contractors, fireworks displays, and hot air balloons.



Flood insurance is also on the export list for some states and in certain circumstances. In New York, for example, surplus lines insurers may sell flood insurance if the property isn’t eligible for primary coverage by the federal flood insurance program or if the federal program won’t provide a sufficient amount of coverage.


   Surplus Lines Insurance vs. Standard Insurance  

Regular insurance carriers, also called standard or admitted carriers, must follow state regulations concerning how much they can charge and what risks they can and cannot cover. Surplus lines carriers do not have to follow these regulations, which allows them to take on higher risks.



A surplus lines insurer is sometimes referred to as a non-admitted or unlicensed carrier, but this does not mean that their policies aren’t valid or that they aren’t regulated to some extent. The designation only means that they are subject to different regulations from those that govern admitted or standard carriers.



Insurers headquartered outside the United States, called alien insurers, make up much of the surplus lines market.




Who Licenses Insurance Companies?
Insurance companies are licensed by the states, as are insurance brokers and insurance agents.




Does the Federal Government Regulate Insurance?
For the most part, no. The federal McCarran-Ferguson Act of 1945 delegated that authority to the states, exempting insurance companies and the majority of their products from most kinds of federal regulation.




What Is Excess and Surplus (E&S) Lines Insurance?
Excess and surplus (E&S) lines insurance is basically another name for surplus lines insurance that is used by some carriers.


   The Bottom Line  

Individuals and businesses buy surplus lines insurance to protect themselves against financial risks that are too large or too rare for a regular insurance company to be willing to take on. Unlike most types of insurance, surplus lines insurance can be sold by insurers that are not licensed to do business in the buyer’s state. They are not covered by state guaranty funds in the case of default.
What Is Survivorship Bias?  

Survivorship bias or survivor bias is the tendency to view the performance of existing stocks or funds in the market as a representative comprehensive sample without regarding those that have gone bust. Survivorship bias can result in the overestimation of historical performance and general attributes of a fund or market index.



Survivorship bias risk is the chance of an investor making a misguided investment decision based on published investment fund return data.





Key Takeaways

Survivorship bias occurs when only the winners are considered while the losers that have disappeared are not considered.This can occur when evaluating mutual fund performance (where merged or defunct funds are not included) or market index performance (where stocks that have been dropped from the index for whatever reason are discarded).Survivorship bias skews the average results upward for the index or surviving funds, causing them to appear to perform better since underperformers have been overlooked.


   Understanding Survivorship Bias  

Survivorship bias is a natural singularity that makes the existing funds in the investment market more visible and therefore more highly viewed as a representative sample. Survivorship bias occurs because many funds in the investment market are closed by the investment manager for various reasons leaving existing funds at the forefront of the investing universe.



Funds may close for various reasons. Numerous market researchers follow and have reported on the effects of fund closings, highlighting the occurrence of survivorship bias. Market researchers regularly follow fund survivorship bias and fund closings to gauge historical trends and add new dynamics to fund performance monitoring.



Numerous studies have been done discussing survivorship bias and its effects. For instance, Morningstar released a research report titled “The Fall of Funds: Why Some Funds Fail” discussing fund closures and their negative consequences for investors.


   Fund Closings  

There are two main reasons that funds close. One, the fund may not receive high demand and therefore asset inflows do not warrant keeping the fund open. Two, a fund may be closed by an investment manager due to performance. Performance closings are typically the most common.



Investors in the fund are immediately impacted by a fund closing. Companies usually offer two solutions for a fund closing. One, the fund undergoes full liquidation and the investors’ shares are sold. This causes potential tax reporting consequences for the investor. Two, the fund may choose to merge. Merged funds are often the best solution for shareholders since they allow for the special transition of shares typically with no tax reporting requirements. However, the performance of the merged funds is therefore also transitioned and can be a factor in the discussion of survivorship bias.



Morningstar is one investment service provider that regularly discusses and reports on survivorship bias. It can be important for investors to be aware of survivorship bias because it may be a factor influencing performance that they are not aware of. While merged funds may take into account closed fund performance, in most cases funds are closed and their performance is not integrated into future reporting. This leads to survivorship bias, since investors may believe that currently, active funds are a true representative of all efforts to manage toward a specific objective historically. Thus, investors may want to include qualitative fund research on a strategy they are interested in investing in to determine if previous managers have tried and failed in the past.


  Closing to New Investors  

Funds may close to new investors which is very different than a full fund closing. Closing to new investors may actually be a sign of the popularity of the fund and attention from investors for above-average returns.


   Reverse Survivorship Bias  

Reverse survivorship bias describes a far less common situation where low- performers remain in the game, while high performers are inadvertently dropped from the running. An example of reverse survivorship can be observed in the Russell 2000 index that is a subset of the 2000 smallest securities from the Russell 3000. The loser stocks stay small and stay in the small-cap index while the winners leave the index once they become too big and successful.
What Is Sustainability?  

In the broadest sense, sustainability refers to the ability to maintain or support a process continuously over time. In business and policy contexts, sustainability seeks to prevent the depletion of natural or physical resources, so that they will remain available for the long term.





Key Takeaways

Sustainability is ability to maintain or support a process over time. Sustainability is often broken into three core concepts: economic, environmental, and social.Many businesses and governments have committed to sustainable goals, such as reducing their environmental footprints and conserving resources.Some investors are actively embracing sustainability investments, known as "green investments." Skeptics have accused some companies of "greenwashing," the practice of misleading the public to make a business seem more environmentally friendly than it is.






   How Sustainability Works  

Accordingly, sustainable policies emphasize the future effect of any given policy or business practice on humans, ecosystems, and the wider economy. The concept often corresponds to the belief that without major changes to the way the planet is run, it will suffer irreparable damage.



As concerns about anthropogenic climate change, biodiversity loss, and pollution have become more widespread, the world has shifted to embrace sustainable practices and policies, primarily through the implementation of sustainable business practices and increased investments in green technology.


  3 Pillars of Sustainability  

The idea of sustainability is often broken down into three pillars: economic, environmental, and social—also known informally as profits, planet, and people.



In that breakdown, the concept of "economic sustainability" focuses on conserving the natural resources that provide physical inputs for economic production, including both renewable and exhaustible inputs.



The concept of "environmental sustainability" adds greater emphasis on the life support systems, such as the atmosphere or soil, that must be maintained for economic production or human life to even occur. In contrast, social sustainability focuses on the human effects of economic systems, and the category includes attempts to eradicate poverty and hunger, as well as to combat inequality.



In 1983, the United Nations created the World Commission on Environment and Development to study the connection between ecological health, economic development, and social equity. The commission, then run by former Norwegian prime minister Gro Harlem Brundtland, published a report in 1987 that has become the standard in defining sustainable development.



That report describes sustainable development, or the blueprint for attaining sustainability, as "meeting the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs."


   Corporate Sustainability  

In business contexts, sustainability refers to more than just environmentalism. Harvard Business School lists two ways to measure sustainable business practices: the effect a business has on the environment, and the effect a business has on society, with the goal of sustainable practice being to have a positive impact on at least one of those areas.






Corporate sustainability emerged as a component of corporate ethics in response to public concerns of long-term damage caused by a focus on short-term profits.



This view of responsibility encourages businesses to balance long-term benefits with immediate returns, and the goal of pursuing inclusive and environmentally sound objectives. This covers a broad array of possible practices. Cutting emissions, lowering energy usage, sourcing products from fair-trade organizations, and ensuring their physical waste is disposed of properly and with a smaller carbon footprint would qualify as moves toward sustainability.



Companies have also set sustainability goals such as a commitment to zero-waste packaging by a certain year, or to reduce overall emissions by a certain percentage.



Many corporations have made such sustainability promises in recent years. For example, Walmart Stores, Inc. (WMT) has pledged to reach zero emissions by 2040. Morgan Stanley has pledged net-zero "financed emissions" by 2050. Google has pledged to operate carbon-free by 2030.



The push for sustainability is evident in areas such as energy generation as well, where the focus has been on finding new deposits to outpace the drawdown on existing reserves. Some electricity companies, for example, now publicly state goals for energy generation from sustainable sources such as wind, hydropower, and solar.



Because these policies tend to generate public goodwill, some companies have been accused of "greenwashing," the practice of providing a false impression that makes a business seem more environmentally friendly than it is.


  Cost Cutting  

Moreover, many companies have been criticized for cost-cutting measures that make it harder to evaluate their sustainability. For example, many companies might move some parts of their business to less-regulated markets, such as by offshoring production to obtain cheaper labor. This can make it harder to assess the costs of production on workers and the environment.



Sustainability practices "significantly affect" the offshoring activities of multinational corporations, according to an examination of data from 1,080 multinational corporations.


   Challenges Surrounding Business Sustainability  

The switch to sustainability can be difficult. The Santa Fe Institute outlines three major impediments for firms seeking to improve their environmental impacts: First, it is hard to actually understand the impact of any individual firm. Second, it is difficult to rank the environmental impact of some activities, and finally, it is difficult to predict how economic agents respond to changing incentives.



Sustainable investing surveys over the past couple of years have suggested that half (or in some cases, more than half) of investors say that sustainability is "fundamental" to investing strategy.



Not everyone concerned with investments shares the enthusiasm. In July 2021, for instance, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Commissioner Hester Peirce argued that not only would environmental, social, and governance (ESG) disclosure mandates violate the agency's authority, but it may also "undermine financial and economic stability."



According to Peirce, the "inherently political" sustainability metrics were "unabashedly" created to direct capital toward certain businesses. In response to public comments and regulatory pressure to look into such mandates, Peirce said that it would be a violation of the SEC's "historically agnostic approach" to regulations.



Eiji Hirano, a former chairman of the board of visitors for Japan’s Government Pension Investment Fund, has said that there's a bubble in ESG investing and that the fund needs to rethink its ESG investments, according to interviews with Bloomberg News.


   Benefits of Business Sustainability  

In addition to the social benefits of improving the environment and elevating human needs, there are also financial benefits for companies that successfully implement sustainability strategies. Using resources sustainability can improve the long-term viability of a business concern, just as cutting waste and pollution can also help a company save money.



For example, using more efficient lighting and plumbing fixtures can help a company save on utility bills, as well as improve its public image. There may also be government tax incentives for companies that adopt certain sustainability practices.



Sustainability can also make a company more attractive to investors. A 2019 HEC Paris Research paper showed that shareholders value the ethical dimensions of a firm so much that they are willing to pay $.70 more to purchase a share in a firm that gives a dollar or more per share to charities. The study also revealed a loss in valuation for firms perceived as exercising a negative social impact.



Based on interviews with senior executives across 43 global investing firms, Harvard Business Review has argued that the perception among some business leaders that environmental, social, and governance issues are not mainstream in the investment community is outdated.



The "sea change" in investor attitudes described by Harvard Business Review draws on the increased commitments of investors. The Principles for Responsible Investment, a United Nations-supported effort to bring these issues into investing, had 63 investment companies with $6.5 trillion in assets under management that committed when it launched in 2006. In 2018, it had 1,715 companies with $81.7 trillion in assets.






While it's tempting to support companies that seem environmentally friendly, some companies are less sustainable than they seem. This use of misleading advertisements or branding to create a false impression of sustainability is sometimes called "greenwashing."


   Creating a Sustainable Business Strategy  

Many corporations are seeking to integrate sustainability practices into their core business models. Companies can adopt sustainability strategies in the same way that they develop their other strategic plans.



The first step to integrating sustainability practices is to identify a specific weakness shortcoming. For example, a company might determine that it generates too much waste, or that its hiring practices are causing harm to the surrounding communities.



Next, the company should determine its goals, and identify the metrics it will use to measure its achievements. A company might set an ambitious target for reducing its carbon footprint, or set a specific percentage goal for diversity hiring. This will allow the company to determine objectively if its goals have been met.



The final step is to implement the strategy and assess its results. This requires continuous re-evaluation, as a company's goals may change as the company grows.



There are some common pitfalls for companies aiming for sustainability. One of them is the knowledge-action gap: even though many executives set sustainability as one of their core business values, few of them take concrete actions to accomplish sustainability objectives.



Another is known as the compliance-competitiveness gap. While improving sustainability metrics can make a company more competitive in the market, these goals should not be confused with the mandatory compliance requirements that a company must adhere to. While sustainability is desirable, compliance is mandatory.


   Real-World Example  

An interesting example of a successful sustainability strategy is Unilever, the parent company of Dove soaps, Axe body spray, Ben & Jerry's Ice Cream, Hellmann's mayonnaise, and many other familiar brands. In 2010, the company implemented the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan, a ten-year blueprint for reducing the environmental impact of its brands while providing a more fair workplace.



By the end of Unilever Sustainable Living Plan, the company was able to announce major achievements in improving its environmental footprint as well as the company's bottom line. By working to conserve water and energy, the company was able to save more than 1 billion euros between 2008 and 2018. Moreover, by creating more opportunities for women, Unilever also become the preferred consumer goods employer for graduate students in 50 countries.




What Are the 3 Principles of Sustainability?
The principles of sustainability refer to the three core concepts of environmental, social, and economic sustainability–sometimes broken down as "people, planet, and profits." This means that in order to be considered sustainable, a business must be able to conserve natural resources, support a healthy community and workforce, and earn enough revenue to remain financially viable for the long-term.




What Activities Promote Sustainability?
Many sustainable businesses seek to reduce their environmental footprint by using renewable energy or by reducing waste. Companies may also be more sustainable by promoting diversity and fairness in their workforce, or enacting policies that benefit the local community.




What Is Economic Sustainability?
Economic sustainability refers to a company's ability to continue its operations over a long-term horizon. In order to be economically sustainable, a company must be able to ensure that it will have adequate resources, workers, and consumers for its products into the distant future.




What Are the Most Sustainable Companies?
There are many different ways to measure and compare sustainable companies. Canadian research firm Corporate Knights publishes a list of the 100 most sustainable companies. The list is topped by the Danish companies Vestas Wind Systems and Chr Hansen Holding, Autodesk Inc., in the United States, Schneider Electric in France, and City Developments in Singapore.




What Products Are Not Sustainable?
Non-sustainable products uses resources that cannot be replaced or replenished at the same speed that they are consumed. Products that rely on fossil fuels cannot be sustainable, because the resources used to make them can never be replaced. Other resources such as as rainforest timber, fishery stocks, sea corals, and other wildlife can be sustainable, if they are only harvested be limits that allow existing stocks to be replenished.


   The Bottom Line  

As consumers become more environmentally conscious, more companies and businesses are finding ways to reduce their impacts upon the planet and their community. Sustainability practices allow companies to highlight their social benefits while continuing to attract customers.
What Is the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR)?  

The sustainable growth rate (SGR) is the maximum rate of growth that a company or social enterprise can sustain without having to finance growth with additional equity or debt. In other words, it is the rate at which the company can grow while using its own internal revenue without borrowing from outside sources. The SGR involves maximizing sales and revenue growth without increasing financial leverage. Achieving the SGR can help a company prevent being over-leveraged and avoid financial distress.



First, obtain or calculate the return on equity (ROE) of the company. ROE measures the profitability of a company by comparing net income to the company's shareholders' equity.



Then, subtract the company's dividend payout ratio from 1. The dividend payout ratio is the percentage of earnings per share paid to shareholders as dividends. Finally, multiply the difference by the ROE of the company.





Key Takeaways

The sustainable growth rate (SGR) is the maximum rate of growth that a company can sustain without having to finance growth with additional equity or debt.Companies with high SGRs are usually effective in maximizing their sales efforts, focusing on high-margin products, and managing inventory, accounts payable, and accounts receivable.A high SGR in the long-term can prove difficult for companies due to competition entering the market, changes in economic conditions, and increased research and development.The SGR is used by businesses to plan long-term growth, capital acquisitions, cash flow projections, and borrowing strategies.Companies looking to grow at a more substantial rate could cut their dividends, but this is a contentious maneuver. 












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding Sustainable Growth Rates  

The SGR of a company can help identify whether it's managing day-to-day operations properly, including paying its bills and getting paid on time. The rate is a long-term rate and is used to determine what stage a company is in. Managing accounts payable needs to be managed in a timely manner to keep cash flow running smoothly.



For a company to operate above its SGR, it would need to maximize sales efforts and focus on high-margin products and services. Also, inventory management is important and management must have an understanding of the ongoing inventory needed to match and sustain the company's sales level.





SGR Formula 

Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) = Retention Ratio x Return on Equity (ROE)


  Managing Accounts Receivable  

Managing the collection of accounts receivable is also critical to maintaining cash flow and profit margins. Accounts receivable represents money owed by customers to the company. The longer it takes a company to collect its receivables contributes to a higher likelihood that it might have cash flow shortfalls and struggle to fund its operations properly. As a result, the company would need to incur additional debt or equity to make up for this cash flow shortfall. Companies with low SGR might not be managing their payables and receivables effectively.


  High Sustainable Growth Rates  

Sustaining a high SGR in the long term can prove difficult for most companies. As revenue increases, a company tends to reach a sales saturation point with its products. As a result, to maintain the growth rate, companies need to expand into new or other products, which might have lower profit margins. The lower margins could decrease profitability, strain financial resources, and potentially lead to a need for new financing to sustain growth. On the other hand, companies that fail to attain their SGR are at risk of stagnation.



The SGR calculation assumes that a company wants to maintain a target capital structure of debt and equity, maintain a static dividend payout ratio, and accelerate sales as quickly as the organization allows.



There are cases when a company's growth becomes greater than what it can self-fund. In these cases, the firm must devise a financial strategy that raises the capital needed to fund its rapid growth. The company can issue equity, increase financial leverage through debt, reduce dividend payouts, or increase profit margins by maximizing the efficiency of its revenue. All of these factors can increase the company's SGR.






The SGR of a company can also be used by lenders to determine whether the company is likely to be able to pay back its loans.


   Sustainable Growth Rate vs. PEG Ratio  

The price-to-earnings-growth ratio (PEG ratio) is a stock's price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio divided by the growth rate of its earnings for a specified time period. The PEG ratio is used to determine a stock's value while taking the company's earnings growth into account. The PEG ratio is said to provide a more complete picture than the P/E ratio.



The SGR involves the growth rate of a company without taking into account the company's stock price while the PEG ratio calculates growth as it relates to the stock price. As a result, the SGR is a metric that evaluates the viability of growth as it relates to its debt and equity. The PEG ratio is a valuation metric used to determine if the stock price is undervalued or overvalued.


   Limitations of Using the SGR  

Achieving the SGR is every company's goal, but some headwinds can stop a business from growing and achieving its SGR.



Consumer trends and economic conditions can help a business achieve its sustainable growth or cause the firm to miss it completely. Consumers with less disposable income are traditionally more conservative with spending, making them discriminating buyers. Companies compete for the business of these customers by slashing prices and potentially hindering growth. Companies also invest money into new product development to try to maintain existing customers and grow market share, which can cut into a company's ability to grow and achieve its SGR.



A company's forecasting and business planning can detract from its ability to achieve sustainable growth in the long term. Companies sometimes confuse their growth strategy with growth capability and miscalculate their optimal SGR. If long-term planning is poor, a company might achieve high growth in the short term but won't sustain it in the long term.



In the long-term, companies need to reinvest in themselves through the purchase of fixed assets, which are property, plant, and equipment (PP&E). As a result, the company may need financing to fund its long-term growth through investment.



Capital-intensive industries like oil and gas need to use a combination of debt and equity financing in order to keep operating since their equipment such as oil drilling machines and oil rigs are so expensive.



It's important to compare a company's SGR with similar companies in its industry to achieve a fair comparison and meaningful benchmark.




Why Is Sustainable Growth Rate Important?
The sustainable growth rate is an important measurement because it gives a company an accurate picture of expansion and equity requirements. Not all companies want to take on additional partners or outside financing, so the SGR allows the company to "toe the line" when it comes to growth using their own revenues and capital.




How Do You Calculate Sustainable Growth Rate?
You calculate the sustainable growth rate by taking the company's return on equity times the result of 1 minus the dividend payout ratio. Another way to calculate it is to multiply the retention rate by the return on equity. The retention rate represents the percentage of earnings that the company has not paid out in dividends. It is the same formula, worded differently.




How Can a Company Increase Growth?
A company has many different ways to increase growth. A CEO could give a keynote speech that drives customers. The company could do a product rollout designed to maximize sales, or a company could increase growth by cutting costs such as dividends or unprofitable divisions.


   The Bottom Line  

Companies need to stay on top of their growth rates, so the SGR is something that is calculated regularly. There may be a point where the rate is sustained at an elevated level but that stretches the company thin and may dip too far into their cash reserves. At this point, companies will typically consider outside financing.
What Is a Swap?  

A swap is a derivative contract through which two parties exchange the cash flows or liabilities from two different financial instruments. Most swaps involve cash flows based on a notional principal amount such as a loan or bond, although the instrument can be almost anything. Usually, the principal does not change hands. Each cash flow comprises one leg of the swap. One cash flow is generally fixed, while the other is variable and based on a benchmark interest rate, floating currency exchange rate, or index price.



The most common kind of swap is an interest rate swap. Swaps do not trade on exchanges, and retail investors do not generally engage in swaps. Rather, swaps are over-the-counter (OTC) contracts primarily between businesses or financial institutions that are customized to the needs of both parties.












Investopedia / Jessica Olah


   Swaps Explained  
  Interest Rate Swaps  

In an interest rate swap, the parties exchange cash flows based on a notional principal amount (this amount is not actually exchanged) in order to hedge against interest rate risk or to speculate. For example, imagine ABC Co. has just issued $1 million in five-year bonds with a variable annual interest rate defined as the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 1.3% (or 130 basis points). Also, assume that LIBOR is at 2.5% and ABC management is anxious about an interest rate rise.



The management team finds another company, XYZ Inc., that is willing to pay ABC an annual rate of LIBOR​ plus 1.3% on a notional principal of $1 million for five years. In other words, XYZ will fund ABC's interest payments on its latest bond issue. In exchange, ABC pays XYZ a fixed annual rate of 5% on a notional value of $1 million for five years. ABC benefits from the swap if rates rise significantly over the next five years. XYZ benefits if rates fall, stay flat, or rise only gradually. 






According to an announcement by the Federal Reserve, banks should stop writing contracts using LIBOR by the end of 2021. The Intercontinental Exchange, the authority responsible for LIBOR, will stop publishing one week and two month LIBOR after December 31, 2021. All LIBOR contracts must be wrapped up by June 30, 2023.



Below are two scenarios for this interest rate swap: LIBOR rises 0.75% per year and LIBOR rises 0.25% per year. 


  Scenario 1  

If LIBOR rises by 0.75% per year, Company ABC's total interest payments to its bondholders over the five-year period amount to $225,000. Let's break down the calculation:













 
Libor + 1.30%
Variable Interest Paid by XYZ to ABC
5% Interest Paid by ABC to XYZ
ABC's Gain
XYZ's Loss


Year 1
3.80%
$38,000
$50,000
-$12,000
$12,000


Year 2
4.55%
$45,500
$50,000
-$4,500
$4,500


Year 3
5.30%
$53,000
$50,000
$3,000
-$3,000


Year 4
6.05%
$60,500
$50,000
$10,500
-$10,500


Year 5
6.80%
$68,000
$50,000
$18,000
-$18,000


Total
 
 
 
$15,000
($15,000)






In this scenario, ABC did well because its interest rate was fixed at 5% through the swap. ABC paid $15,000 less than it would have with the variable rate. XYZ's forecast was incorrect, and the company lost $15,000 through the swap because rates rose faster than it had expected.


  Scenario 2  

In the second scenario, LIBOR rises by 0.25% per year:













 
Libor + 1.30%
Variable Interest Paid by XYZ to ABC
5% Interest Paid by ABC to XYZ
ABC's Gain
XYZ's Loss


Year 1
3.80%
$38,000
$50,000
($12,000)
$12,000


Year 2
4.05%
$40,500
$50,000
($9,500)
$9,500


Year 3
4.30%
$43,000
$50,000
($7,000)
$7,000


Year 4
4.55%
$45,500
$50,000
($4,500)
$4,500


Year 5
4.80%
$48,000
$50,000
($2,000)
$2,000


Total
 
 
 
($35,000)
$35,000






In this case, ABC would have been better off by not engaging in the swap because interest rates rose slowly. XYZ profited $35,000 by engaging in the swap because its forecast was correct.



This example does not account for the other benefits ABC might have received by engaging in the swap. For example, perhaps the company needed another loan, but lenders were unwilling to do that unless the interest obligations on its other bonds were fixed.



In most cases, the two parties would act through a bank or other intermediary, which would take a cut of the swap. Whether it is advantageous for two entities to enter into an interest rate swap depends on their comparative advantage in fixed or floating-rate lending markets.


   Other Swaps  

The instruments exchanged in a swap do not have to be interest payments. Countless varieties of exotic swap agreements exist, but relatively common arrangements include commodity swaps, currency swaps, debt swaps, and total return swaps.


  Commodity Swaps  

Commodity swaps involve the exchange of a floating commodity price, such as the Brent Crude oil spot price, for a set price over an agreed-upon period. As this example suggests, commodity swaps most commonly involve crude oil.


  Currency Swaps  

In a currency swap, the parties exchange interest and principal payments on debt denominated in different currencies. Unlike an interest rate swap, the principal is not a notional amount, but it is exchanged along with interest obligations. Currency swaps can take place between countries. For example, China has used swaps with Argentina, helping the latter stabilize its foreign reserves. The U.S. Federal Reserve engaged in an aggressive swap strategy with European central banks during the 2010 European financial crisis to stabilize the euro, which was falling in value due to the Greek debt crisis.


  Debt-Equity Swaps  

A debt-equity swap involves the exchange of debt for equity—in the case of a publicly-traded company, this would mean bonds for stocks. It is a way for companies to refinance their debt or reallocate their capital structure.


  Total Return Swaps  

In a total return swap, the total return from an asset is exchanged for a fixed interest rate. This gives the party paying the fixed-rate exposure to the underlying asset—a stock or an index. For example, an investor could pay a fixed rate to one party in return for the capital appreciation plus dividend payments of a pool of stocks.


  Credit Default Swap (CDS)  

A credit default swap (CDS) consists of an agreement by one party to pay the lost principal and interest of a loan to the CDS buyer if a borrower defaults on a loan. Excessive leverage and poor risk management in the CDS market were contributing causes of the 2008 financial crisis.




What Is the Purpose of a Swap?
A swap allows counterparties to exchange cash flows. For instance, an entity receiving or paying a fixed interest rate may prefer to swap that for a variable rate (or vice-versa). Or, the holder of a cash-flow generating asset may wish to swap that for the cash flows of a different asset. The purpose of such a swap is to manage risk, to obtain funding at a more favorable rate than would be available through other means, or to speculate on future differences between the swapped cash flows.




How Is a Swap Structured?
A swap is an over-the-counter (OTC) derivative product that typically involves two counterparties that agree to exchange cash flows over a certain time period, such as a year. The exact terms of the swap agreement are negotiated by the counterparties and are then formalized in a legal contract. These terms will include precisely what is to be swapped and to whom, the notional amount of the principal, the maturity of the contract, and any contingencies. The cash flows that are ultimately exchanged are computed based on the terms of the contract, which maybe an interest rate, index, or other underlying financial instrument.




Who Uses Swaps?
Swaps are mainly used by institutional investors such as banks and other financial institutions, governments, and some corporations. They are intended to be used to manage a variety of risks, such as interest rate risk, currency risk, and price risk.




Are Swaps Regulated?
Today, many swaps in the U.S. are regulated by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and sometimes the SEC, even though they usually trade over-the-counter (OTC). Due to the Wall Street reforms in the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, swaps in the U.S. must use a Swap Execution Facility (SEF), which is an electronic platform that allows participants to buy and sell swaps pursuant to regulation. The regulation of swaps is aimed at ensuring that these financial instruments are traded in a fair and transparent manner, and to reduce the risk of systemic financial failure (since swaps were blamed, in part, for the 2008 financial crisis). The specific regulations that apply to swaps internationally vary by jurisdiction.


   The Bottom Line  

A swap is a derivative contract where one party exchanges or "swaps" the cash flows or value of one asset for another. For example, a company paying a variable rate of interest may swap its interest payments with another company that will then pay the first company a fixed rate. Swaps can also be used to exchange other kinds of value or risk like the potential for a credit default in a bond. The most common type of swap is an interest rate swap, where the parties exchange fixed vs. variable interest rate flows based on a notional principal amount, which can be used to hedge against interest rate risk or to speculate on future rate changes. Swaps are over-the-counter (OTC) contracts primarily between businesses or financial institutions, and are not generally intended for retail investors.
What Is a Swap Execution Facility (SEF)?  

A Swap Execution Facility (SEF) is an electronic platform provided by a corporate entity that allows participants to buy and sell swaps in a regulated and transparent manner. They are required by law as part of the sweeping Wall Street reforms stemming from the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act.





Key Takeaways

Swap execution facilities (SEFs) are trading platforms intended for swaps products.They are mandated under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act of 2010.Because of the complex nature of swaps, these platforms are not exchanges per se but they do function as a counterparty matching service.Swaps traded on SEFs fall under the oversight of both the SEC and CFTC.Swaps volume has increased over the years and now dozens of entities provide SEF platforms.


   Understanding Swap Execution Facility  

A SEF is an electronic platform that matches counterparties in a swaps transaction. Through a mandate in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, SEFs changed the methods previously used to trade derivatives.



The Dodd-Frank Act defined a SEF as, "A facility, trading system or platform in which multiple participants have the ability to execute or trade swaps by accepting bids and offers made by other participants that are open to multiple participants in the facility or system, through any means of interstate commerce."



Before Dodd-Frank, swaps were traded exclusively in over-the-counter (OTC) markets with little transparency or oversight. The SEF allows for transparency and provides a complete record and audit trail of trades.



The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) regulate SEFs.


   An Exchange for Swaps  

A SEF is similar to a formal exchange but is a distributed group of approved trading systems. The handling of trades is similar to other exchanges. Also, the Dodd-Frank Act states if no SEF system is available for specific swaps, then the previous, OTC trading method, is acceptable.



Proponents argue that a SEF is a swaps exchange, much like a stock or futures exchange, and they are correct, to a degree. Centralized clearing of swaps and other derivatives reduces counterparty risks and increases trust and integrity in the marketplace. Also, a facility that allows for multiple bids and offers provides liquidity to the swap marketplace. This liquidity enables traders to close positions ahead of contract maturity.


   Becoming a Swap Execution Facility  

Many entities may apply to become a SEF. To qualify, they must meet specific thresholds as defined by the SEC, CFTC, and the Dodd-Frank Act.



Applicants must register with the SEC and meet specific requirements. Requirements include the platform's ability to display all available bids and offers, send trade acknowledgments to all involved parties, maintain a record of transactions, and provide a request for quote (RFQ) system. In addition, they must meet certain margin and capital guidelines and the ability to segregate the swap exchange. Finally, the applicant must agree to abide by the 14 SEC core principles.






An SEF can become "dormant" if it has not carried out a swap execution in more than 12 months. A dormant SEF must re-register to become active again.




How does a swap execution facility work?
Swap execution facilities (SEFs) are electronic matching platforms that bring together buyers and sellers of swaps contracts, much like any other electronic exchange. These are regulated venues that rely on a request-for-quote mechanism.




Why were swap execution facilities created?
Swap execution facilities were created under the 2010 Dodd-Frank act to better regulate and increase transparency for swaps deals, both before and after the trade.




Who must register with an SEF?
According to the CFTC, "any person who offers a trading system or platform in which more than one market participant has the ability to execute or trade swaps with more than one other market participant on the system or platform must apply to the Commission to register as a SEF."




Are swaps required to be transacted through a swap execution facility?
While many swaps now must be traded on a SEF, financial institutions can still transact certain swaps over-the-counter (OTC) directly between one another. But, swap trades that are eligible to be cleared must use a SEF.
The Swap Rate  

The swap rate is a special kind of interest rate that is utilized for the calculation of fixed payments in a derivative instrument called an interest rate swap. An interest rate swap is a financial contract between two parties who agree to exchange interest rate cash flows based on a notional amount.



For an interest rate swap, there are two (2) types of interest rates required: a fixed interest rate and a floating interest rate. The fixed rate is the predetermined rate that one party agrees to pay, while the floating rate is based on a reference rate such as a government bond yield.



The swap rate specifically refers to the fixed rate that is agreed upon in the swap contract. It is the interest rate at which one party will make fixed payments to the other party over the life of a swap. The swap rate remains constant throughout the duration of the swap agreement.



Generally, swap rates are determined by market forces such as supply and demand, as well as expectations of future interest rate movements. Swap rates are influenced by factors such as prevailing interest rates, credit risk, liquidity conditions, and market participants' expectations.



Swap rates are used in various financial applications. One example involves companies and investors entering into an interest rate swap to manage interest rate risk. By swapping fixed and floating rate cash flows, parties can effectively convert their exposure to interest rate fluctuations. Swap rates also play a role in pricing other financial instruments, such as structured products, bonds, and loans.






Swap rate denotes the fixed rate that a party to a swap contract requests in exchange for the obligation to pay a short-term rate, such as the Federal Funds rate.When the swap is entered, the fixed rate will be equal to the value of floating-rate payments, calculated from the agreed counter-value.Swaps are typically quoted in a swap spread, which calculates the difference between the swap rate and counter-party rate.


   Key Components of a Swap Rate  

Below shows the components of a swap rate:



Fixed Rate: This is a pre-determined interest rate that one party agrees to pay in an interest rate swap. It remains firm throughout the life of the swap. The mentioned component determines the fixed cash flows to be exchanged between the parties.
Floating Rate: The floating rate is the interest rate component of an interest rate swap that is based on a reference rate such as a government bond yield or EURIBOR (Euro Interbank Offered Rate). This floating rate is typically adjusted periodically based on the movement of the reference rate. The floating rate serves as the basis for determining the variable cash flows in the swap.
Notional Amount: The notional or principal amount, represents the hypothetical underlying value upon which the interest payments are calculated. It is an agreed-upon reference amount that determines the size of the cash flows exchanged in the swap but is not actually exchanged between the parties.
Payment Frequency: The payment frequency determines how often the interest payments are made in the swap. It is agreed upon by the parties and can be monthly, quarterly, semi-annually, or annually, depending on the terms of the swap agreement.
Payment Dates: The payment dates are the specific dates on which the interest payments are exchanged between the parties. These dates are predetermined and specified in the swap. Usually the payment dates are in line with the payment frequency and can span the duration of the swap.
Swap Tenor: This refers to the length of time over which the swap remains in effect. The tenor is calculated from the initiation date to the maturity or termination date. The swap tenor can vary depending on the needs of the parties and can range from a few months to several years.
Market Conventions: Swap rates are influenced by market conventions and practices that are specific to the financial markets in which they are traded. These conventions include the day count basis, compounding methods, business day conventions, and other market-specific factors that affect the calculation and determination of swap rates.


   Key Steps in a Swap  

Identification of Counterparties: Firstly, the parties involved in the swap are identified. There are two parties: the fixed-rate payer and the floating-rate payer. Some examples of these entities could be individuals, corporations and financial institutions.Terms and Notional Amount: The two parties determine the terms of the swap as it is a contract. The notional amount is included in the determination. The notional amount is the reference amount upon which the cash flows will be calculated but is not exchanged between the parties.Fixed and Floating Rates: The parties agree on the fixed rate and the floating rate to be used in the swap.Payment Dates: In the swap contract, the payment dates are specified. These dates can be monthly, quarterly, semi-annually, depending on the agreement.Calculation and Exchange of Payments: For each payment date, the parties calculate the cash flows based on the agreed-upon rates and notional amount. The fixed-rate payer pays the fixed interest rate amount to the floating-rate payer while the floating- rate payer pays the floating interest amount based on the reference rate.Duration and Termination: In the swap agreement, the tenor or duration of the swap is defined. The duration of the swap can range from a few months to several years.Documentation and Legal Review: It should be noted that the swap is indeed a legal contract or agreement. Proper documentation is crucial. The parties engage legal counsel to draft and review the agreement, ensuring compliance with applicable laws and regulations.Ongoing Monitoring and Reporting: Throughout the life of the swap, both parties monitor the performance of the swap and keep track of payments, interest rate adjustments, and any other relevant factors. Regular reporting and communication between the parties may be required.Settlement at Maturity or Termination: At the maturity of the swap or upon early termination, the final payments are made between the parties, settling the remaining obligations. Any outstanding collateral is returned, and the swap is ended.



These steps are generic and swap details may vary depending on the type of swap, the jurisdiction, and the needs of the parties.


   Examples of a Swap  

Assume that there are two (2) parties, Company Apricot and Company Beetle. They have reviewed the terms and conditions and agree to enter into an interest rate swap. The terms of the swap are:

Notional Amount: $10 million
Swap Tenor: 5 years
Fixed Rate: 4%
Floating Rate: 3-month EURIBOR +1%

Company Apricot is the fixed-rate payer and agrees to pay a fixed rate of 4% per annum on the notional amount, while company Beetle, the floating-rate payer, agrees to pay a floating rate based on 3-month EURIBOR plus a spread of 1%.
At the initiation date of the swap, the 3-month EURIBOR rate is 2% and the payment frequency is quarterly.
On each payment date, which is every three months, the following cash flows occur:
Company Apricot pays Company Beetle the fixed interest payment:















∙


FIP


=




FR


×


NA



PF

















∙


FIP


=




0.04


×


$


10


,


000


,


000



4



=


$


100


,


000
















where:
















FIP


=


Fixed Interest Payment
















FR


=


Fixed Rate
















NA


=


Notional Amount
















PF


=


Payment Frequency







\begin{aligned}&\bullet\text{FIP}=\frac{\text{FR}\times\text{NA}}{\text{PF}}\\&\bullet\text{FIP}=\frac{0.04\times\$10,000,000}{4}=\$100,000\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{FIP}=\text{Fixed Interest Payment}\\&\text{FR}=\text{Fixed Rate}\\&\text{NA}=\text{Notional Amount}\\&\text{PF}=\text{Payment Frequency} \end{aligned}


​∙FIP=PFFR×NA​∙FIP=40.04×$10,000,000​=$100,000where:FIP=Fixed Interest PaymentFR=Fixed RateNA=Notional AmountPF=Payment Frequency​
Company Beetle pays Company Apricot the floating interest payment:















∙


FLIP


=




(


3


-month EURIBOR


+


Spread


)


×


NA



PF

















∙


FLIP


=




(


0.02


+


0.01


)


×


$


10


,


000


,


000



4



=


$


75


,


000
















where:
















FLIP


=


Floating Interest Payment
















NA


=


Notional Amount
















PF


=


Payment Frequency







\begin{aligned}&\bullet\text{FLIP}=\frac{(3\text{-month EURIBOR}+\text{Spread})\times\text{NA}}{\text{PF}}\\&\bullet\text{FLIP}=\frac{(0.02+0.01)\times\$10,000,000}{4}=\$75,000\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{FLIP}=\text{Floating Interest Payment}\\&\text{NA}=\text{Notional Amount}\\&\text{PF}=\text{Payment Frequency} \end{aligned}


​∙FLIP=PF(3-month EURIBOR+Spread)×NA​∙FLIP=4(0.02+0.01)×$10,000,000​=$75,000where:FLIP=Floating Interest PaymentNA=Notional AmountPF=Payment Frequency​
These cash flows continue for the duration of the swap tenor, which is 5 years. At each payment date, the fixed-rate payer (Company Apricot) pays a fixed interest amount, and the floating-rate payer (Company Beetle) pays a floating interest amount based on the reference rate (3-month EURIBOR) plus the spread.
There are three types of interest rate exchanges for a currency swap:

The fixed rate of one currency for the fixed rate of the second currency.
The fixed rate of one currency for the floating rate of the second currency.
The floating rate of one currency for the floating rate of the second currency.

The swap can include or exclude a full exchange of the principal amount of the currency at both the beginning and the end of the swap. The interest rate payments are not netted because they are calculated and paid in different currencies. Regardless of whether or not the principal is exchanged, a swap rate for the conversion of the principal must be set.
If there is no exchange of principal, then the swap rate is simply used for the calculation of the two notional principal currency amounts on which the interest rate payments are based. If there is an exchange, where the swap rate is set can have a financial impact since the exchange rate can change between the start of the agreement and its conclusion.




What are the Different Types of Swaps?
The common types of swaps are interest rate swaps, currency swaps, credit default swaps (CDS), commodity swaps, equity swaps, total return swaps and volatility swaps.




What are Benefits of Using Swaps?
Swaps offer several benefits. They help market participants to manage portfolio risks. They are flexible and customizable to the market participant's needs. Also, swaps help manage cash flows by converting variable cash flows into fixed cash flows or vice versa. Moreover, swaps can be used for arbitrage and speculation and they also help manage liquidity.




What are the Risks and Limitations of Using Swaps?
Swaps have counterparty risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk and regulatory & legal risks. Swaps may not be readily available for all market participants and like most derivatives they are complex instruments.While swaps can offer some cost advantages, there may still be costs involved such as transaction costs, legal fees, collateral requirements, or ongoing monitoring expenses. These costs need to be considered when evaluating the overall benefits and effectiveness of using swaps.


   The Bottom Line  

Swap rates are the fixed interest rates at which two parties agree to exchange cash flows in an interest rate swap. They represent the cost or benefit associated with swapping fixed-rateand floating-rate payments. The key components of a swap rate include the fixed rate, floating rate, notional amount, payment frequency, payment dates, swap tenor, and market conventions.



Swap rates are used for various purposes, including managing interest rate risk, converting variable-rate debt into fixed-rate debt (and vice versa), or speculating on interest rate movements. They provide flexibility, customization, and cash flow management benefits to market participants. Swaps allow parties to transfer specific risks, such as interest rate risk, currency risk, credit risk, or commodity price risk.



While swaps offer benefits, they also come with risks and limitations. Counterparty risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, regulatory and legal risks, limited availability, complexity, and potential costs are important considerations when using swaps. Understanding the risks, thoroughly analyzing the terms, and seeking professional advice are crucial for effective swap rate management.
What is a Swaption - Swap Option?  

A swaption, also known as a swap option, refers to an option to enter into an interest rate swap or some other type of swap. In exchange for an options premium, the buyer gains the right but not the obligation to enter into a specified swap agreement with the issuer on a specified future date.


   What Does a Swaption - Swap Option Tell You?  

Swaptions come in two main types: a payer swaption and a receiver swaption. In a payer swaption, the purchaser has the right but not the obligation to enter into a swap contract where they become the fixed-rate payer and the floating-rate receiver. A receiver swaption is the opposite i.e. the purchaser has the option to enter into a swap contract where they will receive the fixed rate and pay the floating rate.



Swaptions are over-the-counter contracts and are not standardized, like equity options or futures contracts. Thus, the buyer and seller need to both agree to the price of the swaption, the time until expiration of the swaption, the notional amount and the fixed/floating rates.



Beyond these terms, the buyer and seller must also agree whether the swaption style will be Bermudan, European or American. These style names have nothing to do with geography; instead referring to the methodology in which the swaption will be executed.





Key Takeaways


Bermudan swaption: the purchaser is allowed to exercise the option and enter into the specified swap on a predetermined set of specific dates.
European swaption: the purchaser is only allowed to exercise the option and enter into the swap on the expiration date of the swaption.
American swaption: the purchaser can exercise the option and enter into the swap on any day between the origination of the swap and the expiration date. (There may be a short lockout period after origination.)





Since swaptions are custom contracts, more creative, personalized and/or unique terms can be included in the terms.


   How Does the Swaption - Swap Option Market Work?  

Swaptions are generally used to hedge options positions on bonds, to aid in restructuring current positions, to alter a portfolio or to adjust a party's aggregate payoff profile. Due to the nature of swaptions, market participants are typically large financial institutions, banks and/or hedge funds. Large corporations also participate in the swaption market to help manage interest rate risk.



Swap contracts are offered in most of the major world currencies, including the U.S. Dollar (USD), Euro and British Pound. Commercial banks are generally the main market makers because the immense technological and human capital required to monitor and maintain a portfolio of swaptions is usually out of the reach of smaller-sized firms.
What Is Sweat Equity?  

The term sweat equity refers to a person or company's contribution toward a business venture or other project. Sweat equity is generally not monetary and, in most cases, comes in the form of physical labor, mental effort, and time. Sweat equity is commonly found in real estate and the construction industry, as well as in the corporate world—especially for startups.





Key Takeaways


Sweat equity is the unpaid labor employees and cash-strapped entrepreneurs put into a project.
Homeowners and real estate investors can use sweat equity to do repairs and maintenance on their own rather than pay for traditional labor.
In startups, owners and employees typically accept salaries that are below their market values in return for a stake in the company.
Working for sweat equity comes with more risk than a conventional salary, but higher upsides if the company succeeds. 
In rent-to-own situations, some landlords may allow renters to gain equity by performing repairs or maintenance that would otherwise be the responsibility of the landlord.



   How Sweat Equity Works  

Sweat equity originally referred to the value-enhancing improvements generated from the sweat of one's brow. So when people say they use sweat equity, they mean their physical labor, mental capacity, and time to boost the value of a specific project or venture.



The term is commonly used in the real estate and construction industries. Sweat equity can be used by homeowners to lower the cost of homeownership. Real estate investors who flip houses for profit can also use sweat equity to their advantage by doing repairs and renovations on properties before putting them on the market. Paying carpenters, painters, and contractors can get extremely pricey, so a do-it-yourself renovation using sweat equity can be profitable when it comes time to sell.



Sweat equity is also an important part of the corporate world, creating value from the effort and toil contributed by a company’s owners and employees. In cash-strapped startups, owners and employees typically accept salaries that are below their market values in return for a stake in the company, which they hope to profit from when the business is eventually sold.






Cash-strapped businesses may provide compensation for an employee's sweat equity in another form such as shares in the company.


   Special Considerations  

In many cases, people have to use sweat equity—their time and effort—to contribute to the success of a company. That's because there's very little capital to pay salaries. Unless you're the owner, everyone expects to be paid for their time and energy. After all, no one wants to work for free.



While a company may not yet have enough capital to pay its employees, it can provide compensation in other forms. For instance, startups may provide key employees with an equity stake in the company. Other, more established companies may provide their employees with shares in the corporation as a reward for their sweat equity.


   Example of Sweat Equity  

Habitat for Humanity homeowners must contribute at least 300 hours of labor to build their own homes as well as those of their neighbors before they can move in. Besides increasing home affordability, the program also gives homeowners a sense of accomplishment and pride in their community.



Sweat equity can also be found in the relationship between landlords and their tenants. In exchange for maintenance work, building owners and landlords may provide an equity stake in the property or, in the case of a superintendent, free housing.



But what about the business world? Let's say an entrepreneur who invested $100,000 in their start-up sells a 25% stake to an angel investor for $500,000, which gives the business a valuation of $2 million or $500,000 ÷ 0.25. Their sweat equity is the increase in the value of the initial investment, from $100,000 to $1.5 million, or $1.4 million.



Shares may be issued at a discount to directors and employees to retain talent, while performance shares are awarded if certain specified measures are met, such as an earnings per share (EPS) target, return on equity (ROE), or the total return of the company's stock in relation to an index. Typically, performance periods are over a multiyear time horizon. For instance, private equity (PE) firms may reserve a significant minority stake in acquired companies to incentivize management and align their interests with the PE investors.




How Do You Calculate the Value of Sweat Equity in a Business?
New businesses generally determine their valuation based on the sale of equity capital. For example, if an investor provides $1 million for a 20% equity stake, the company would be worth $5 million. Valuing a company can be more complicated without equity funding, in which case accountants will use the company's existing assets, brands, and the value of similar companies to estimate the total value of a company's equity.




How Do You Calculate the Value of Sweat Equity in a House?
In homes or other types of construction, sweat equity is based on the increase in a property's value that can be attributed to the owner's work, which would otherwise be paid out to professional contractors. For example, if you buy a starter for $100,000, perform repairs, and sell it for $150,000, your sweat equity would cost $50,000, less the cost of any tools, materials, or other expenses.




What Are the Downsides of Sweat Equity?
The biggest downside of sweat equity is the risk that the final value of your equity might be worth less than the work you put in. For new companies, workers take the risk that the company might fail, making their sweat equity worthless. Likewise, homeowners who perform their own construction assume the risks of poor workmanship that would otherwise fall to their contractors.




How Can You Use Sweat Equity to Reduce Taxes on Your Home?
If you make significant improvements to your home, you can itemize these expenses and deduct them on Schedule A of Form 1040. When you sell the home, you may be able to exclude any profit that can be attributed to sweat equity, such as construction, plumbing, or electrical work.




What Are the Tax Implications for Sweat Equity in a Business?
The IRS considers sweat equity to be a form of income. This means that if an employee receives part of their compensation in sweat equity, that equity must be included in the employee's gross income and can be taxed as such.


   The Bottom Line  

Sweat equity refers to the value of work performed in lieu of payment. Homeowners can build sweat equity by making their own repairs, rather than hiring a contractor. In a business, owners and employees may receive part of their compensation in sweat equity rather than a conventional salary.
What Is a Sweep Account?  

A sweep account is a bank or brokerage account that automatically transfers amounts that exceed a certain level into a higher interest-earning investment option at the close of each business day. Commonly, the excess cash is swept into a money market fund.





Key Takeaways


A sweep account automatically transfers cash funds into a safe but higher interest-earning investment option at the close of each business day, e.g., into a money market fund.
Sweep accounts try to minimize cash drag by capitalizing on the immediate availability of higher-interest accounts.
A sweep account service may not always be free and you might have to pay fees to your broker that might make the sweep less attractive on a net basis.



   Understanding Sweep Accounts  

Using a sweep vehicle like a sweep fund works by providing the customer with the greatest amount of interest with the minimum amount of personal intervention by transferring money at the end of the day into a high-interest account. In a sweep program, a bank's computers analyze customer use of checkable deposits and sweep funds into money market deposit accounts.



Some brokerage accounts have similar features that enable investors to gain some additional return for unused cash. Sweep accounts are simple mechanisms that allow any money above or below a set threshold in a checking account to be swept into a better investment vehicle. Sweep accounts were needed historically because federal banking regulations prohibited interest on checking accounts.






Sweep accounts were originally devised to get around a government regulation that limited banks from offering interest on commercial checking accounts.



Sweep accounts, whether for business or personal use, provide a way to ensure money is not sitting idly in a low-interest account when it could be earning higher interest rates in better liquid cash investment vehicles. These investment vehicles that provide higher interest rates while still offering liquidity include money market mutual funds, high-interest investment or savings accounts, and even short-term certificates with 30-, 60- or 90-day maturities for known layovers in investments.



Businesses and individuals need to keep an eye on the costs of sweep accounts, as the benefit from higher returns from investment vehicles outside the checking account can be offset by the fees charged for the account. Many brokerages or banking institutions charge flat fees, while others charge a percentage of the yield.






Sweep accounts may not be free, and broker fees may make the account less attractive on a net basis.


   Personal Sweeps vs. Business Sweeps  

Sweep accounts for individual investors are typically used by brokerages to park money waiting to be reinvested such as dividends, incoming cash deposits, and money from sell orders. These funds are typically swept into high-interest holding accounts or money market funds until an investor decides on future investments or until the broker can execute already standing orders within the portfolio.



Sweep accounts are a typical business tool, especially for small businesses that rely on daily cash flow but want to maximize earning potential on sitting cash reserves. A business sets a minimum balance for its main checking account, over which any funds are swept into a higher-interest investment product. If the balance ever dips below the threshold, the funds are swept back into the checking account from the investment account.



Depending on the institution and investment vehicle, the sweep process is generally set daily from the checking account, while the return of funds can experience delays. With the changes in regulations on checking accounts, some banking institutions also offer high-interest rates on amounts over certain balances.




How Do Sweep Accounts Work?
A sweep account is a type of bank or brokerage account that is linked to an investment account, and automatically transfers funds when the balance is above or below a preset minimum. Typically, this is used to sweep excess cash into a money market fund, where it will earn more interest than an ordinary bank account. Sweep accounts can also work the other way around, moving funds from an investment account to a checking account when the owner's balance falls below a set threshold.




What Is the Difference Between Personal and Business Sweeps?
Individual sweeps are typically used by brokerages to store client funds until the owner decides how to invest the money. For example, a sweep account might move excess cash to a money market fund, where it will earn greater returns than an ordinary checking account. Business sweep accounts are often used by small companies with large cash flows. They allow the company to earn interest on excess cash reserves while ensuring that they have enough cash on hand to pay for business expenses.




Why Are Sweep Accounts Useful?
Sweep accounts, whether for business or personal use, are an easy way to ensure that money is earning a return rather than sitting in a low-interest bank account. Some institutions offer an auto-sweep feature whereby the sweep account is linked to the non-sweep account and the transfers are initiated automatically when the defined thresholds (upper and lower) are crossed.


   The Bottom Line  

Sweep accounts are bank/brokerage accounts that move excess money between a client's cash account and an investment account. When the monetary level in the cash account exceeds the required amount, the excess is moved into the higher interest-bearing investment account automatically. This allows the client account to earn interest on money that isn't being used.
What Is Swing Trading?  










Madelyn Goodnight / Investopedia



Swing trading is a style of trading that attempts to capture short- to medium-term gains in a stock (or any financial instrument) over a period of a few days to several weeks. Swing traders primarily use technical analysis to look for trading opportunities.



Swing traders may utilize fundamental analysis in addition to analyzing price trends and patterns.





Key Takeaways

Swing trading involves taking trades that last a couple of days up to several months in order to profit from an anticipated price move.Swing trading exposes a trader to overnight and weekend risk, where the price could gap and open the following session at a substantially different price.Swing traders can take profits utilizing an established risk/reward ratio based on a stop-loss and profit target, or they can take profits or losses based on a technical indicator or price action movements.


   Understanding Swing Trading  

Typically, swing trading involves holding a position either long or short for more than one trading session, but usually not longer than several weeks or a couple of months. This is a general time frame, as some trades may last longer than a couple of months, yet the trader may still consider them swing trades. Swing trades can also occur during a trading session, though this is a rare outcome that is brought about by extremely volatile conditions.



The goal of swing trading is to capture a chunk of a potential price move. While some traders seek out volatile stocks with lots of movement, others may prefer more sedate stocks. In either case, swing trading is the process of identifying where an asset’s price is likely to move next, entering a position, and then capturing a chunk of the profit if that move materializes.



Successful swing traders are only looking to capture a chunk of the expected price move, and then move on to the next opportunity.






Swing trading is one of the most popular forms of active trading, where traders look for intermediate-term opportunities using various forms of technical analysis.






   Advantages and Disadvantages of Swing Trading  

Many swing traders assess trades on a risk/reward basis. By analyzing the chart of an asset, they determine where they will enter, where they will place a stop-loss order, and then anticipate where they can get out with a profit. If they are risking $1 per share on a setup that could reasonably produce a $3 gain, that is a favorable risk/reward ratio. On the other hand, risking $1 only to make $0.75 isn’t quite as favorable.



Swing traders primarily use technical analysis, due to the short-term nature of the trades. That said, fundamental analysis can be used to enhance the analysis. For example, if a swing trader sees a bullish setup in a stock, they may want to verify that the fundamentals of the asset look favorable or are improving.



Swing traders will often look for opportunities on the daily charts and may watch one-hour or 15-minute charts to find precise entry, stop-loss, and take-profit levels.





Pros

Swing trading requires less time to trade than day trading.
It maximizes short-term profit potential by capturing the bulk of market swings.
Swing traders can rely exclusively on technical analysis, simplifying the trading process.



Cons

Swing trade positions are subject to overnight and weekend market risk.
Abrupt market reversals can result in substantial losses.
Swing traders often miss longer-term trends in favor of short-term market moves.





   Day Trading vs. Swing Trading  

The distinction between swing trading and day trading is usually the holding time for positions. Swing trading often involves at least an overnight hold, whereas day traders close out positions before the market closes. To generalize, day trading positions are limited to a single day, while swing trading involves holding for several days to weeks.



By holding overnight, the swing trader incurs the unpredictability of overnight risk, such as gaps up or down against the position. By taking on the overnight risk, swing trades are usually done with a smaller position size compared to day trading (assuming the two traders have similarly sized accounts). Day traders typically utilize larger position sizes and may use a day trading margin of 25%.



Swing traders also have access to a margin or leverage of 50%. This means that if the trader is approved for margin trading, they only need to put up $25,000 in capital for a trade with a current value of $50,000, for example.


   Swing Trading Tactics  

A swing trader tends to look for multiday chart patterns. Some of the more common patterns involve moving average crossovers, cup and handle patterns, head and shoulders patterns, flags, and triangles. Key reversal candlesticks may be used in addition to other indicators to devise a solid trading plan.



Ultimately, each swing trader devises a plan and strategy that gives them an edge over many trades. This involves looking for trade setups that tend to lead to predictable movements in the asset’s price. This isn’t easy, and no strategy or setup works every time. With a favorable risk/reward, winning every time isn’t required. The more favorable the risk/reward of a trading strategy, the fewer times it needs to win to produce an overall profit over many trades.


   Real-World Example of Swing Trade in Apple  










Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



Using a historical example, the chart above shows a period where Apple (AAPL) had a strong price move higher. This was followed by a small cup and handle pattern, which often signals a continuation of the price rise if the stock moves above the high of the handle.



In this case:



The price does rise above the handle, triggering a possible buy near $192.70.One possible place to put a stop-loss is below the handle, marked by the rectangle, near $187.50.Based on the entry and stop-loss, the estimated risk for the trade is $5.20 per share ($192.70 - $187.50).If looking for a potential reward that is at least twice the risk, any price above $203.10 ($192.70 + (2 × $5.20) will provide this.



Aside from risk/reward, the trader could also utilize other exit methods, such as waiting for the price to make a new low. With this method, an exit signal wasn’t given until $216.46, when the price dropped below the prior pullback low. This method would have resulted in a profit of $23.76 per share—or, thought of another way, a 12% profit in exchange for less than 3% risk. This swing trade took approximately two months.



Other exit methods could be when the price crosses below a moving average (not shown), or when an indicator such as the stochastic oscillator crosses its signal line.




What are the ‘swings’ in swing trading?
Swing trading tries to identify entry and exit points into a security on the basis of its daily or weekly movements between cycles of optimism and pessimism.




How does swing trading differ from day trading?
Day trading, as the name suggests, involves making dozens of trades in a single day, based on technical analysis and sophisticated charting systems. Day trading seeks to scalp small profits multiple times a day and close out all positions at the end of the day. Swing traders do not close their positions on a daily basis and instead may hold onto them for weeks, months, or even longer. Swing traders may incorporate both technical and fundamental analysis, whereas a day trader is more likely to focus on using technical analysis.




What are some indicators or tools used by swing traders?
Swing traders will use tools like moving averages overlaid on daily or weekly candlestick charts, momentum indicators, price range tools, and measures of market sentiment. Swing traders are also on the lookout for technical patterns like the head and shoulders or cup and handle.




Which types of securities are best suited for swing trading?
While a swing trader can enjoy success in any number of securities, the best candidates tend to be large-cap stocks, which are among the most actively traded stocks on the major exchanges. In an active market, these stocks will often swing between broadly defined high and low points, and the swing trader will ride the wave in one direction for a couple of days or weeks and then switch to the opposite side of the trade when the stock reverses direction. Swing trades are also viable in actively traded commodities and forex markets.


   The Bottom Line  

Swing trading refers to a trading style that attempts to exploit short- to medium-term price movements in a security using favorable risk/reward metrics. Swing traders primarily rely on technical analysis to determine suitable entry and exit points, but they may also use fundamental analysis as an added filter.



Large-cap stocks make suitable swing trading candidates, as they often oscillate in well-established, predictable ranges that frequently provide long and short trading opportunities.



Swing trading offers advantages such as maximizing short-term profit potential, minimal time commitment, and flexibility of capital management. Key disadvantages include being subject to overnight and weekend market risk, along with missing longer-term trending price moves.
What Is a Swingline Loan?  

A swingline loan is a short-term loan made by financial institutions that provides businesses with access to funds to cover debt commitments. A swingline loan can be a sub-limit of an existing credit facility or a syndicated credit line, which is financing offered by a group of lenders. Swingline loans typically have short operating durations that can range from five to 15 days on average.



Swingline loans are helpful to companies since they provide much-needed cash relatively quickly. However, swingline loans often carry higher interest rates than traditional lines of credit, and the funds are limited to covering debt obligations.





Key Takeaways

A swingline loan is a type of loan that gives borrowers access to a large amount of cash for a short period of time.A swingline loan can also be used as revolving credit, which is a line of credit that a borrower can repeatedly draw on and pay back.While swingline loans can be accessed on very short notice, they also need to be repaid quickly and tend to have higher interest rates than standard lines of credit.


   How a Swingline Loan Works  

Financial institutions make swingline loans to both businesses and individuals. A swingline loan for individuals is similar to a payday loan, providing cash quickly. However, fast access to credit comes at a cost in the form of a significantly higher interest rate than other forms of credit, such as bank-issued personal loans.



Companies can use swingline loans to cover temporary shortfalls in cash flow, and in that sense, they are similar to other lines of credit in how they function. However, the funds provided by this type of loan are meant to be used only for paying down existing debts. In other words, the funds can not be used for expanding the business, acquiring new assets, or investments in research and development.



The limitation of the use of funds differentiates swingline loans from traditional lines of credit, which can be used for almost any purpose, including buying goods and debt repayments.






Swingline loans can be tapped or drawn down on the same day a request is made to the lender and be issued for smaller amounts than the existing credit facility.



A swingline loan can take the form of revolving credit, which is a line of credit that the borrower can repeatedly draw on and pay back. Though the loan normally has an upward limit, so long as the funds are paid back as agreed, they can be withdrawn as needed on very short notice. Often, borrowers can receive funds on the same day they request them, and the cycle of repayment and withdrawal can continue as long as all the conditions of borrowing are met and both parties choose to keep the line open.



Revolving credit lines, including swingline loans, can be closed at the discretion of either the borrower or the lender. Lenders have the option to close any line of credit that they consider to be too risky. Swingline loans are best suited for use in cases where normal processing delays make other forms of loans impractical.


   Pros and Cons of Swingline Loans  

As with any borrowing facility, there are pros and cons to each credit product. Company executives must weigh the benefits and drawbacks to determine if a swingline loan is a viable option.





Pros

A swingline loan can give the borrower access to a large sum of cash.
Swingline loans can be accessed on very short notice.
Swingline loans help companies with cash flow shortfalls and keep their debt payments current.



Cons

Swingline loans need to be repaid quickly.
Swingline loans often carry higher interest rates than traditional lines of credit.
The use of funds from swingline loans are often limited to paying debt obligations.







What Is a Swingline Loan?
A swingline loan is a type of loan for business owners or individuals to access a large sum of credit for a brief period of time. They are often a sublimity of a revolving line of credit.




What Can I Use a Swingline Loan For?
Uses for swingline loans are typically limited to paying debt obligations.




Can a Swingline Loan Be Used More Than Once?
Yes. The cycle of repayment and withdrawal on a swingline loan can continue indefinitely, so long as all the conditions of borrowing are met and neither party chooses to close the line.


   The Bottom Line  

Swingline loans can be made to both businesses and individuals and provide fast access to a large amount of cash. However, these loans can come with significantly higher interest rates than other forms of credit, such as personal loans. Be sure to compare all options available to you before taking out a swingline loan.
What Are Switching Costs?  

Switching costs are the costs that a consumer incurs as a result of changing brands, suppliers, or products. Although most prevalent switching costs are monetary in nature, there are also psychological, effort-based, and time-based switching costs. Switching can also refer to the process of rebalancing or changing investments.





Key Takeaways

Switching costs are the costs a consumer pays as a result of switching brands or products.Switching costs can be monetary, psychological, effort-based, and time-based.Switching costs can be classified as high switching costs or low switching costs.Companies seek to employ high switching costs to prevent customers from moving to another brand.Companies with difficult-to-perfect products and low competition will use high switching costs to maximize profits.Some companies who are unable to charge higher dollar amounts for switching will ensure long wait times and product delays, keeping their consumer base via a strictly time-based switching cost.


   How Switching Costs Work  

A switching cost can manifest itself in the form of significant time and effort necessary to change suppliers, the risk of disrupting normal operations of a business during a transition period, high cancellation fees, or a failure to obtain similar replacements of products or services.



Successful companies typically try to employ strategies that incur high switching costs on the part of consumers to dissuade them from switching to a competitor's product, brand, or services.



For example, many cellular phone carriers charge very high cancellation fees for canceling contracts in hopes that the costs involved with switching to another carrier will be high enough to prevent their customers from doing so. However, recent offers by numerous cell phone carriers to compensate consumers for cancellation fees nullified such switching costs.



Switching costs are the building blocks of competitive advantage and the pricing power of companies. Firms strive to make switching costs as high as possible for their customers, which lets them lock customers in their products and raise prices every year without worrying that their customers will find better alternatives with similar characteristics or at similar price points.


   Types of Switching Costs  

Switching costs can be broken down into two categories: low- and high-cost switching. The price difference depends mostly on the ease of transfer, as well as the availability of similar products of the competitor.


  Low Switching Cost  

Companies that offer products or services that are very easy to replicate at comparable prices by competitors typically have low switching costs. Apparel firms have very limited switching costs among consumers, who can find clothing deals easily and can quickly compare prices by walking from one store to another. The rise of Internet retailers and fast shipping has made it even easier for consumers to shop for apparel at their homes across multiple online platforms.


  High Switching Cost  

Companies that create unique products that have few substitutes and require significant effort to perfect their use enjoy significant switching costs. Consider Intuit Inc. (INTU), which offers its customers various bookkeeping software solutions. Because learning to use Intuit's applications takes significant time, effort, and training costs, few users are willing to switch away from Intuit.



Many of Intuit's applications are interconnected, which provides additional functionalities and benefits to users, and few companies match the scale and usefulness of Intuit's products. Small businesses, which are the primary buyers of Intuit's bookkeeping products, can incur disruption in their operations and risk incurring financial error if they decide to move away from Intuit's software. These factors create high switching costs and stickiness of Intuit's products, allowing the company to charge premium prices on its products.


   Common Switching Costs  

There are a variety of specific switching costs that companies can use to deter their customers from jumping ship and going to a competitor. Common ones include the following:



Convenience: A company may have many locations of its stores or products, making it easy for customers to buy its goods. If a competitor has cheaper products but is further away and difficult to get to, customers may choose to stay with the higher cost product because of its convenience.



Emotional: Many companies continue doing business with their current suppliers, for example, just because the emotional cost of finding a new supplier, building a new relationship, and getting to know new individuals might be high.



It is similar to why a person may choose to stay in one job versus leaving for another that might pay a slightly higher salary. The individual knows their boss and their colleagues, and therefore the emotional cost of switching might be too high.



Exit Fees: Many companies charge exit fees for leaving. These fees are usually not necessary but a company tacks them on at the end just so a customer won't leave. A company can classify these fees as they so choose, including administrative fees for closing an account.



Time-Based: If it takes a long time to switch from one brand to another, customers often forego doing so. For example, if an individual has to wait a long time on the phone to speak to someone to close an account and on top of that they have to fill out paperwork to close the account, they may find that the time involved is not worth doing so.
What Is Symmetrical Distribution?  

A symmetrical distribution occurs when the values of variables appear at regular frequencies and often the mean, median, and mode all occur at the same point. If a line were drawn dissecting the middle of the graph, it would reveal two sides that mirror one other.



In graphical form, symmetrical distributions may appear as a normal distribution (i.e., bell curve). Symmetrical distribution is a core concept in technical trading as the price action of an asset is assumed to fit a symmetrical distribution curve over time.



Symmetrical distributions can be contrasted with asymmetrical distributions, which is a probability distribution that exhibits skewness or other irregularities in its shape.





Key Takeaways

A symmetrical distribution is one where splitting the data down the middle produces mirror images.Bell curves are a commonly-cited example of symmetrical distributions.Having a symmetrical distribution is useful for analyzing data and making inferences based on statistical techniques.In finance, data-generating processes with symmetrical distributions can help inform trading decisions.Real-world price data, however, tend to exhibit asymmetrical qualities such as right-skewness.


   What Does a Symmetrical Distribution Tell You?  

Symmetrical distributions are used by traders to establish the value area for a stock, currency, or commodity on a set time frame. This time frame can be intraday, such as 30-minute intervals, or it can be longer-term using sessions or even weeks and months. A bell curve can be drawn around the price points hit during that time period and it is expected that most of the price action—approximately 68% of price points—will fall within one standard deviation of the center of the curve. The curve is applied to the y-axis (price) as it is the variable whereas time throughout the period is simply linear. So the area within one standard deviation of the mean is the value area where price and the actual value of the asset are most closely matched.



If the price action takes the asset price out of the value area, then it suggests that price and value are out of alignment. If the breach is to the bottom of the curve, the asset is considered to be undervalued. If it is to the top of the curve, the asset is to be overvalued. The assumption is that the asset will revert to the mean over time. When traders speak of reversion to the mean, they are referring to the symmetrical distribution of price action over time that fluctuates above and below the average level.






The central limit theorem states that the distribution of sample approximates a normal distribution (i.e., becomes symmetric) as the sample size becomes larger, regardless of the population distribution—including asymmetric ones.


   Example of How Symmetrical Distribution Is Used  

Symmetrical distribution is most often used to put price action into context. The further the price action wanders from the value area one standard deviation on each side of the mean, the greater the probability that the underlying asset is being under or overvalued by the market. This observation will suggest potential trades to place based on how far the price action has wandered from the mean for the time period being used. On larger time scales, however, there is a much greater risk of missing the actual entry and exit points.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019 


   Symmetrical Distributions vs. Asymmetrical Distributions  

The opposite of symmetrical distribution is asymmetrical distribution. A distribution is asymmetric if it is not symmetric with zero skewness; in other words, it does not skew. An asymmetric distribution is either left-skewed or right-skewed. A left-skewed distribution, which is known as a negative distribution, has a longer left tail. A right-skewed distribution, or a positively skewed distribution, has a longer right tail. Determining whether the mean is positive or negative is important when analyzing the skew of a data set because it affects data distribution analysis. A log-normal distribution is a commonly-cited asymmetrical distribution featuring right-skew.



Skewness is often an important component of a trader’s analysis of a potential investment return. A symmetrical distribution of returns is evenly distributed around the mean. An asymmetric distribution with a positive right skew indicates that historical returns that deviated from the mean were primarily concentrated on the bell curve’s left side.



Conversely, a negative left skew shows historical returns deviating from the mean concentrated on the right side of the curve.















Normal vs. Skewed.
Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   Limitations of Using Symmetrical Distributions  

A common investment refrain is that past performance does not guarantee future results; however, past performance can illustrate patterns and provide insight for traders looking to make a decision about a position. Symmetrical distribution is a general rule of thumb, but no matter the time period used, there will often be periods of asymmetrical distribution on that time scale. This means that, although the bell curve will generally return to symmetry, there can be periods of asymmetry that establish a new mean for the curve to center on. This also means that trading based solely on the value area of a symmetrical distribution can be risky if the trades are not confirmed by other technical indicators.




What Is the Relationship Between Mean, Median, and Mode in a Symmetrical Distribution?
In a symmetrical distribution, all three of these descriptive statistics tend to be the same value, for instance in a normal distribution (bell curve). This also holds in other symmetric distributions such as the uniform distribution (where all values are identical; depicted simply as a horizontal line) or the binomial distribution, which accounts for discrete data that can only take on one of two values (e.g., zero or one, yes or no, true or false, etc.).On rare occasions, a symmetrical distribution may have two modes (neither of which are the mean or median), for instance in one that would appear like two identical hilltops equidistant from one another.




Is the Median Symmetric?
The median describes the point at which 50% of data values lie above, and 50% lie below. Thus it is the mid-point of the data. In a symmetrical distribution, the median will always be the mid-point and create a mirror image with the median in the middle. This is not the case for an asymmetric distribution.




What Is the Shape of a Frequency Distribution?
The "shape" of the frequency distribution of data is simply its graphical representation (e.g. as a bell curve, etc.). Visualizing the shape of the data can help analysts quickly understand if it is symmetrical or not.




What Is Symmetric vs. Asymmetric Data?
Symmetric data is observed when the values of variables appear at regular frequencies or intervals around the mean. Asymmetric data, on the other hand, may have skewness or noise such that the data appears at irregular or haphazard intervals.
What Is a Syndicate?  

A syndicate is a temporary alliance of businesses that joins together to manage a large transaction, which would be difficult, or impossible, to effect individually. Syndication makes it easy for companies to pool their resources and share risks, as when a group of investment banks works together to bring a new issue of securities to the market. There are different types of syndicates, such as underwriting syndicates, banking syndicates, and insurance syndicates.


   Understanding Syndicates  
  Types of Syndicates  

Syndicates are usually comprised of companies in the same industry. For example, two pharmaceutical companies may combine their research and development (R&D) teams by creating a syndicate to develop a new drug. Or several real estate companies may form a syndicate to manage a large development. Sometimes banks will form a syndicate to loan a very large amount of money to a single party. Companies also may form a syndicate to manage a specific business venture if the opportunity promises an attractive rate of return (RoR).



Some projects are so large that no single company can have all of the expertise needed to do the job efficiently. This is often the case with large construction projects such as building a stadium, highway, bridge, or railroad. In these situations, companies may form a syndicate so that each firm may apply their specific expertise to the project. For tax purposes, syndicates are generally considered as partnerships or corporations.﻿﻿






In financial services, the underwriting syndicate plays a critically important role in bringing new securities to the market.


  Managing Risk  

The amount of risk assumed by each syndicate member can vary. For instance, in an undivided account of an underwriting syndicate, each member is responsible for selling an allotted amount of stock along with any excess shares not sold by the syndicate as a whole.



In this way, an individual syndicate member may need to sell far more securities than they are allotted; other types of syndicates, however, may limit the degree of risk for each member.


   Underwriting Syndicates  

In an initial public offering (IPO), a number of investment banks and broker-dealers form a syndicate to sell new offerings of stock or debt securities to investors. The underwriting group shares the risk and aids in the successful distribution of the new securities issue.



The lead underwriter for the new issue initiates and manages the underwriting syndicate. The syndicate is compensated by the underwriting spread—which is the difference between the price paid to the issuer and the price received from investors and other broker-dealers. An underwriting syndicate usually breaks up 30 days after the sale is complete, or if the securities cannot be sold at the offering price. There are other types of syndicates, however, that function jointly, but which are not temporary.





Key Takeaways

A syndicate is a temporary alliance formed by professionals to handle a large transaction that would be impossible to execute individually.By forming a syndicate, members can pool their resources together, and share in both the risks and the potential for attractive returns.In general, businesses in the same industry join to form syndicates.


   Syndicates and Insurance Risk  

Syndicates are often used in the insurance industry to spread insurance risk among several firms. Insurance underwriters evaluate the risk of insuring a specific person or a particular asset and use that evaluation to price an insurance policy.



For example, an underwriter in the corporate health insurance field may evaluate the potential health risks of a company's employees. The underwriter’s actuary would then use statistics to assess the risk of illness for each employee in the company’s workforce. If the potential risk of providing health insurance is too great for a single insurance firm, that company may form a syndicate to share the insurance risk.
What Is a Syndicated Loan?  

A syndicated loan, also known as a syndicated bank facility, is financing offered by a group of lenders—referred to as a syndicate—who work together to provide funds for a single borrower. The borrower can be a corporation, a large project, or a sovereign government. The loan can involve a fixed amount of funds, a credit line, or a combination of the two.



Syndicated loans arise when a project requires too large a loan for a single lender or when a project needs a specialized lender with expertise in a specific asset class. Syndicating the loan allows lenders to spread risk and take part in financial opportunities that may be too large for their individual capital base. Interest rates on this type of loan can be fixed or floating, based on a benchmark rate such as the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). LIBOR is an average of the interest rates that major global banks borrow from each other.












Investopedia / Candra Huff





Key Takeaways

A syndicated loan, or a syndicated bank facility, is financing offered by a group of lenders—called a syndicate—who work together to provide funds for a borrower.The borrower can be a corporation, a large project, or a sovereign government.Because they involve such large sums, syndicated loans are spread out among several financial institutions to mitigate the risk in case the borrower defaults.


   Understanding a Syndicated Loan  

In cases of syndicated loans, there is typically a lead bank or underwriter, known as the arranger, the agent, or the lead lender. The lead bank may put up a proportionally bigger share of the loan, or it may perform duties such as dispersing cash flows among the other syndicate members and administrative tasks.



The main goal of syndicated lending is to spread the risk of a borrower default across multiple lenders or banks, or institutional investors, such as pension funds and hedge funds. Because syndicated loans tend to be much larger than standard bank loans, the risk of even one borrower defaulting could cripple a single lender. Syndicated loans are also used in the leveraged buyout community to fund large corporate takeovers with primarily debt funding.



Syndicated loans can be made on a best-efforts basis, which means that if enough investors can't be found, the amount the borrower receives is lower than originally anticipated. These loans can also be split into dual tranches for banks that fund standard revolving credit lines and institutional investors that fund fixed-rate term loans.






Because they involve such large sums, syndicated loans are spread out among several financial institutions, which mitigates the risk in case the borrower defaults.


   Example of a Syndicated Loan  

Syndicated loans are usually too large for a single lender to handle. For example, the Chinese corporation Tencent Holdings Ltd., the biggest internet company in Asia and owner of popular messaging services WeChat and QQ, signed a syndicated loan deal on March 24, 2017, to raise $4.65 billion. The loan deal included commitments from a dozen banks with Citigroup Inc. acting as the coordinator, mandated lead arranger, and book runner, which is the lead underwriter in a new debt offering that handles the "books."



Previously, Tencent had increased the size of another syndicated loan to $4.4 billion on June 6, 2016. That loan, used to fund company acquisitions, was underwritten by five large institutions: Citigroup Inc., Australia and New Zealand Banking Group, Bank of China, HSBC Holdings PLC, and Mizuho Financial Group Inc. The five organizations together created a syndicated loan that encompassed a five-year facility split between a term loan and a revolver. A revolver is a revolving credit line, meaning the borrower can pay down the balance and borrow again.
What Is Synergy?  

Synergy is the concept that the combined value and performance of two companies will be greater than the sum of the separate individual parts. Synergy is a term that is most commonly used in the context of mergers and acquisitions (M&A). Synergy, or the potential financial benefit achieved through the combining of companies, is often a driving force behind a merger.





Key Takeaways

Synergy is the concept that the value and performance of two companies combined will be greater than the sum of the separate individual parts.If two companies can merge to create greater efficiency or scale, the result is what is sometimes referred to as a synergy merge.The expected synergy achieved through a merger can be attributed to various factors, such as increased revenues, combined talent and technology, and cost reduction.In addition to merging with another company, a company can also create synergy by combining products or markets, such as when one company cross-sells another company's products to increase revenues.Companies can also achieve synergy between different departments by setting up cross-disciplinary workgroups in which teams work cooperatively to increase productivity and innovation.


   Understanding Synergy  

Mergers and acquisitions (M&A) are made with the goal of improving the company's financial performance for the shareholders. Two businesses can merge to form one company that is capable of producing more revenue than either could have been able to independently, or to create one company that is able to eliminate or streamline redundant processes, resulting in significant cost reduction.



Because of this principle, the potential synergy is examined during the M&A process. If two companies can merge to create greater efficiency or scale, the result is what is sometimes referred to as a synergy merge.



Shareholders will benefit if a company's post-merger share price increases due to the synergistic effect of the deal. The expected synergy achieved through the merger can be attributed to various factors, such as increased revenues, combined talent and technology, and cost reduction.


   Types of Synergy  

In addition to merging with another company, a company may also attempt to create synergy by combining products or markets. For example, a retail business that sells clothes may decide to cross-sell products by offering accessories, such as jewelry or belts, to increase revenue.






Synergy can also be negative. Negative synergy is derived when the value of the combined entities is less than the value of each entity if it operated alone. This could result if the merged firms experience problems caused by vastly different leadership styles and corporate cultures.



A company can also achieve synergy by setting up cross-disciplinary workgroups, in which each member of the team brings with them a unique skill set or experience. For example, a product development team may consist of marketers, analysts, and research and development (R&D) experts.



This team formation could result in increased capacity and workflow and, ultimately, a better product than all the team members could produce if they work separately.


   Special Considerations  

Synergy is reflected on a company's balance sheet through its goodwill account. Goodwill is an intangible asset that represents the portion of the business value that cannot be attributed to other business assets. Examples of goodwill include a company's brand recognition, proprietary or intellectual property, and good customer relationships.



Synergies may not necessarily have a monetary value but could reduce the costs of sales and increase profit margin or future growth. In order for synergy to have an effect on the value, it must produce higher cash flows from existing assets, higher expected growth rates, longer growth periods, or lower cost of capital.


   Real-World Example  

In 2021, Thermo Fisher Scientific, a producer and supplier of scientific instruments, equipment, software, services, and consumables, purchased clinical research services provider, PPD.



Thermo Fisher acquired PPD for $47.5 a share, for an all-cash deal valued at $17.4 billion. Through the purchase, Thermo Fisher is expected to realize synergies worth $125 million over three years. This includes approximately $75 million of cost synergies and $50 million of operating-income gains through revenue-associated synergies.




Is Synergy Positive or Negative?
In general, synergy is positive. The idea is that the combined efforts of two or more entities are greater than those entities alone. In business terms, however, though companies may aim to achieve synergy by joining forces, the end result often lacks synergy, making the endeavor a wasted one.




What Areas Is Synergy Realized?
Synergies are primarily realized in three areas: revenue, cost, and financial. Revenue synergies result in higher revenues for the parties involved, cost synergies result in lower costs, and financial synergies result in overall improved finances, such as lower interest rates on debt.




What Is Workplace Synergy?
Workplace synergy is when employees work together to create a more productive working experience. This can include areas such as feedback, clearly defined goals, performance-based compensation, and overall teamwork to tackle problems that would be more impactful than if done alone.
What Is Synthetic?  

Synthetic is the term given to financial instruments that are engineered to simulate other instruments while altering key characteristics, like duration and cash flow.





Key Takeaways

Synthetic is the term given to financial instruments that are engineered to simulate other instruments while altering key characteristics, like duration and cash flow.Synthetic positions can allow traders to take a position without laying out the capital to actually buy or sell the asset.Synthetic products are custom designed investments that are, typically, created for large investors.


   Understanding Synthetic  

Often synthetics will offer investors tailored cash flow patterns, maturities, risk profiles, and so on. Synthetic products are structured to suit the needs of the investor. There are many different reasons behind the creation of synthetic positions:



A synthetic position, for example, may be undertaken to create the same payoff as a financial instrument using other financial instruments.A trader may choose to create a synthetic short position using options because it is easier than borrowing stock and selling it short. This also applies to long positions, as traders can mimic a long position in a stock using options without having to lay out the capital to actually purchase the stock.



For example, you can create a synthetic option position by purchasing a call option and simultaneously selling (writing) a put option on the same stock. If both options have the same strike price, let's say $45, this strategy would have the same result as purchasing the underlying security at $45 when the options expire or are exercised. The call option gives the buyer the right to purchase the underlying security at the strike, and the put option obligates the seller to purchase the underlying security from the put buyer.



If the market price of the underlying security increases above the strike price, the call buyer will exercise their option to purchase the security at $45, realizing the profit. On the other hand, if the price falls below the strike, the put buyer will exercise their right to sell to the put seller who is obligated to buy the underlying security at $45. So the synthetic option position would have the same fate as a true investment in the stock, but without the capital outlay. This is, of course, a bullish trade; the bearish trade is done by reversing the two options (selling a call and buying a put).


   Understanding Synthetic Cash Flows and Products  

Synthetic products are more complex than synthetic positions, as they tend to be custom builds created through contracts. There are two main types of generic securities investments:



Those that pay incomeThose that pay in price appreciation.



Some securities straddle a line, such as a dividend paying stock that also experiences appreciation. For most investors, a convertible bond is as synthetic as things need to get.



Convertible bonds are ideal for companies that want to issue debt at a lower rate. The goal of the issuer is to drive demand for a bond without increasing the interest rate or the amount it must pay for the debt. The attractiveness of being able to switch debt for the stock if it takes off attracts investors that want steady income but are willing to forgo a few points of that for the potential of appreciation. Different features can be added to the convertible bond to sweeten the offer. Some convertible bonds offer principal protection. Other convertible bonds offer increased income in exchange for a lower conversion factor. These features act as incentives for bondholders.



Imagine, however, an institutional investor that wants a convertible bond for a company that has never issued one. To fulfill this market demand, investment bankers work directly with the institutional investor to create a synthetic convertible purchasing the parts—in this case, bonds and a long-term call option—to fit the specific characteristics that the institutional investor wants. Most synthetic products are composed of a bond or fixed income product, which is intended to safeguard the principal investment, and an equity component, which is intended to achieve alpha.


   Types of Synthetic Assets  

Products used for synthetic products can be assets or derivatives, but synthetic products themselves are inherently derivatives. That is, the cash flows they produce are derived from other assets. There’s even an asset class known as synthetic derivatives. These are the securities that are reverse engineered to follow the cash flows of a single security.



Synthetic CDOs, for example, invest in credit default swaps. The synthetic CDO itself is further split into tranches that offer different risk profiles to large investors. These products can offer significant returns, but the nature of the structure can also leave high-risk, high-return tranche holders facing contractual liabilities that are not fully valued at the time of purchase. The innovation behind synthetic products has been a boon to global finance, but events like the financial crisis of 2007-09 suggest that the creators and buyers of synthetic products are not as well-informed as one would hope.
What Is a Systematic Investment Plan (SIP)?  

A systematic investment plan (SIP) is a plan in which investors make regular, equal payments into a mutual fund, trading account, or retirement account such as a 401(k). SIPs allow investors to save regularly with a smaller amount of money while benefiting from the long-term advantages of dollar-cost averaging (DCA). By using a DCA strategy, an investor buys an investment using periodic equal transfers of funds to build wealth or a portfolio over time slowly.





Key Takeaways

A systematic investment plan involves investing a consistent sum of money regularly, and usually into the same security.A SIP generally pulls automatic withdrawals from the funding account and may require extended commitments from the investor.SIPs operate on the principle of dollar-cost averaging.Most brokerages and mutual fund companies offer SIPs.


   How SIPs Work  

Mutual funds and other investment companies offer investors a variety of investment options including systematic investment plans. SIPs give investors a chance to invest small sums of money over a longer period of time rather than having to make large lump sums all at once. Most SIPs require payments into the plans on a consistent basis—whether that's weekly, monthly, or quarterly.






SIPs allow investors to use smaller amounts of money with the benefits of dollar-cost averaging.



The principle of systematic investing is simple. It works on regular and periodic purchases of shares or units of securities of a fund or other investment. Dollar-cost averaging involves buying the same fixed-dollar amount of a security regardless of its price at each periodic interval. As a result, shares are bought at various prices and in varying amounts—though some plans may let you designate a fixed number of shares to buy. Because the amount invested is generally fixed and doesn't depend on unit or share prices, an investor ends up buying fewer shares when unit prices rise and more shares when prices drop.



SIPs tend to be passive investments because once you put money in, you continue to invest in it regardless of how it performs. That's why it's important to keep an eye on how much wealth you accumulate in your SIP. Once you've hit a certain amount or get to a point near your retirement, you may want to reconsider your investment plans. Moving to a strategy or investment that's actively managed may allow you to grow your money even more. But it's always a good idea to speak to a financial advisor or expert to determine the best situation for you.


   Special Considerations  

DCA advocates argue that with this approach, the average cost per share of the security decreases over time. Of course, the strategy can backfire if you have a stock whose price rises steadily and dramatically. That means investing over time costs you more than if you bought all at once at the outset. Overall, DCA usually reduces the cost of an investment. The risk of investing a large amount of money into security also lessens.



Because most DCA strategies are established on an automatic purchasing schedule, systematic investment plans remove the investor’s potential for making poor decisions based on emotional reactions to market fluctuations. For example, when stock prices soar and news sources report new market records being set, investors typically buy more risky assets.



In contrast, when stock prices drop dramatically for an extended period, many investors rush to unload their shares. Buying high and selling low is in direct contrast with dollar-cost averaging and other sound investment practices, especially for long-term investors.


   SIPs and DRIPs  

In addition to SIPs, many investors use the earnings their holdings generate to purchase more of the same security, via a dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP). Reinvesting dividends means stockholders may purchase shares or fractions of shares in publicly traded companies they already own. Rather than sending the investor a quarterly check for dividends, the company, transfer agent, or brokerage firm uses the money to purchase additional stock in the investor’s name. Dividend reinvestment plans are also automatic—the investor designates the treatment of dividends when they establish an account or first buy the stock—and they let shareholders invest variable amounts in a company over a long-term period.



Company-operated DRIPs are commission-free. That's because there is no broker needed to facilitate the trade. Some DRIPs offer optional cash purchases of additional shares directly from the company at a 1% to 10% discount with no fees. Because DRIPs are flexible, investors may invest small or large amounts of money, depending on their financial situation.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Systematic Investment Plans  
  Advantages  

SIPs provide investors with a variety of benefits. The first, and most obvious, benefit is that once you set the amount you wish to invest and the frequency, there's not much more to do. Since many SIPs are funded automatically, you just have to make sure the funding account has enough money to cover your contributions. It also allows you to use a small amount so you don't feel the effects of a big lump sum being withdrawn all at once.



Because you're using DCA, there's very little emotion involved. That cuts back some of the risk and uncertainty you're likely to experience with other investments like stocks and bonds. And since it requires a fixed amount at regular intervals, you're also implementing some discipline into your financial life.





Pros

"Set it and forget it"
Imposes discipline, avoids emotion
Works with small amounts
Reduces overall cost of investments
Risks less capital



Cons

Requires long-term commitment
Can carry hefty sales charges
Can have early withdrawal penalties
Could miss buying opportunities and bargains





  Disadvantages  

Although they can help an investor maintain a steady savings program, formal systematic investment plans have several stipulations. For example, they often require a long-term commitment. This can be anywhere from 10 to 25 years. While investors are allowed to quit the plan before the end date, they may incur hefty sales charges—sometimes as much as 50% of the initial investment if within the first year. Missing a payment can lead to plan termination.



Systematic investment plans can also be costly to establish. A creation and sales charge can run up to half of the first 12 months' investments. Also, investors should look out for mutual fund fees and custodial and service fees if applicable.


   Systematic Investment Plan vs. Lump Sum Investment  

While SIPs are a systematic investment plan that involves investing a fixed amount at regular intervals, lump sum investments involve investing a large sum of money at once into a particular investment or asset class.



SIPs help to average out the purchase price of investments over time, reducing the impact of short-term market volatility. Lump sum investments are made at a specific point in time, so their performance depends on the market conditions prevailing at the time of investment. Lump sum investments are potentially subject to higher risk of losses, though that come as potentially higher opportunities. For example, if the investment is made during a market downturn, the investor may experience immediate losses. However, if the market performs well, a lump sum investment can yield higher returns compared to SIPs should the underlying investments have been purchased over a period of time where prices increased.



SIPs also provide a disciplined approach to investing and enable investors to mitigate the impact of market fluctuations. There is a psychological element to consider regarding committing to investing a certain amount of money each period. Though this amount may be auto-drawn each period, investments may find mental solace that they are consistently and constantly putting money away towards an investing strategy.


   Real-World Example of a Systematic Investment Plan  

Most brokerages and mutual fund companies such as Vanguard Investments, Fidelity, and T. Rowe Price offer SIPs, allowing investors to contribute quite small amounts. Although the payments can be made manually, most SIPs are set up to be funded automatically either monthly, quarterly, or whatever period the investor chooses. This means an investor should have a money market or other liquid account to fund their systematic investment plan.



T. Rowe Price calls its SIP product Automatic Buy. After the initial investment to establish the account—generally $1,000 or $2,500, though this usually varies depending on the type of account—investors can make contributions of as little as $100 per month. It is available for both IRA and taxable accounts, but only to purchase mutual funds—not stocks.



The payments can be transferred directly from a bank account, paycheck, or even a Social Security check. Note that there may be certain restrictions with Social Security payments, though the Social Security Administration has guidance on what are acceptable types of accounts.




Can I Start a SIP With a Small Amount of Money?
Yes, SIPs allow individuals to start investing with small amounts, making it accessible to a wide range of investors. The minimum investment amount varies depending on the mutual fund or investment provider.




What Investment Instruments Can Be Used for SIPs?
SIPs can be utilized to invest in various investment instruments such as mutual funds (equity funds, debt funds, hybrid funds), index funds, ETFs, and other investment products offered by financial institutions.




Can I Pause or Stop My SIP Investments?
Yes, investors have the flexibility to pause or stop their SIP investments at any time. They can choose to discontinue the SIP or pause it temporarily and resume later based on their financial circumstances or investment goals.




What Are the Costs Associated with SIP Investments?
SIP investments may involve certain costs such as expense ratios, which cover fund management expenses, and transaction charges. These costs are deducted from the invested amount or reflected in the NAV (Net Asset Value) of the investment instrument.




What Returns Can I Expect From SIPs?
SIP returns are influenced by the performance of the underlying investment instrument. Over the long term, SIPs have the potential to generate attractive returns, especially when invested in equity-based funds, but it is important to note that returns are subject to market fluctuations.


   The Bottom Line  

Systematic investment plans are a disciplined investment approach that allows individuals to invest a fixed amount at regular intervals in selected investment instruments. SIPs offer benefits such as regular investing, flexibility, potential for rupee cost averaging, and the opportunity to start with small amounts. They provide individuals with a systematic and gradual way to invest, reducing the impact of market volatility and potentially generating long-term wealth accumulation.
What Is Systemic Risk?  

Systemic risk is the possibility that an event at the company level could trigger severe instability or collapse an entire industry or economy. Systemic risk was a major contributor to the financial crisis of 2008. Companies considered to be a systemic risk are called "too big to fail."



These institutions are large relative to their respective industries or make up a significant part of the overall economy. A company highly interconnected with others is also a source of systemic risk. Systemic risk should not be confused with systematic risk; systematic risk relates to the entire financial system.


   Understanding Systemic Risk  

The federal government uses systemic risk as a justification—an often correct one—to intervene in the economy. The basis for this intervention is the belief that the government can reduce or minimize the ripple effect from a company-level event through targeted regulations and actions.






Although some companies are considered "too big to fail," they will if the government does not intervene during turbulent economic times.



However, sometimes the government will choose not to intervene simply because the economy at that time had undergone a major rise and the general market needs a breather. This is more often the exception than the rule, since it can destabilize an economy more than projected due to consumer sentiment.


   Examples of Systemic Risk  

The Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, fully known as Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, introduced an enormous set of new laws that are supposed to prevent another Great Recession from occurring by tightly regulating key financial institutions to limit systemic risk. There has been much debate about whether changes need to be made to the reforms to facilitate the growth of small business.



Lehman Brothers’ size and integration into the U.S. economy made it a source of systemic risk. When the firm collapsed, it created problems throughout the financial system and the economy. Capital markets froze up while businesses and consumers could not get loans, or could only get loans if they were extremely creditworthy, posing minimal risk to the lender.



Simultaneously, AIG was also suffering from serious financial problems. Like Lehman, AIG’s interconnectedness with other financial institutions made it a source of systemic risk during the financial crisis. AIG's portfolio of assets tied to subprime mortgages and its participation in the residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) market through its securities-lending program led to collateral calls, a loss of liquidity, and a downgrade of AIG's credit rating when the value of those securities dropped.



While the U.S. government did not bail out Lehman, it decided to bail out AIG with loans of more than $180 billion, preventing the company from going bankrupt. Analysts and regulators believed that an AIG bankruptcy would have caused numerous other financial institutions to collapse as well.
What Is Systematic Sampling?  

Systematic sampling is a type of probability sampling method in which sample members from a larger population are selected according to a random starting point but with a fixed, periodic interval. This interval, called the sampling interval, is calculated by dividing the population size by the desired sample size. Despite the sample population being selected in advance, systematic sampling is still thought of as being random if the periodic interval is determined beforehand and the starting point is random.



When carried out correctly on a large population of a defined size, systematic sampling can help researchers, including marketing and sales professionals, obtain representative findings on a huge group of people without having to reach out to each and every one of them.





Key Takeaways

Systematic sampling is a probability sampling method in which a random sample, with a fixed periodic interval, is selected from a larger population.The fixed periodic interval, called the sampling interval, is calculated by dividing the population size by the desired sample size.Advantages of this methodology include eliminating the phenomenon of clustered selection and a low probability of contaminating data.Disadvantages include overrepresentation or underrepresentation of particular patterns and a greater risk of data manipulation.There are three main types of systematic samples: Random systematic samples, linear systematic samples, and circular systematic samples.












Investopedia / Nez Riaz


   Understanding Systematic Sampling  

Since simple random sampling of a population can be inefficient and time-consuming, statisticians turn to other methods, such as systematic sampling. Choosing a sample size through a systematic approach can be done quickly. Once a fixed starting point has been identified, a constant interval is selected to facilitate participant selection.



Systematic sampling is preferable to simple random sampling when there is a low risk of data manipulation. If such a risk is high when a researcher can manipulate the interval length to obtain desired results, then a simple random sampling technique would be more appropriate.



Systematic sampling is popular with researchers and analysts because of its simplicity. Researchers generally assume the results are representative of most normal populations unless a random characteristic disproportionately exists with every nth data sample (which is unlikely). In other words, a population needs to exhibit a natural degree of randomness along with the chosen metric. If the population has a type of standardized pattern, then the risk of accidentally choosing very common cases is more apparent.



Within systematic sampling, as with other sampling methods, a target population must be selected prior to selecting participants. A population can be identified based on any number of desired characteristics that suit the purpose of the study being conducted. Some selection criteria may include age, gender, race, location, education level, or profession.






There are several methods of sampling a population for statistical inference. Systematic sampling is one form of random sampling.


   Steps to Create a Systematic Sample  

You can use the following steps to create a systematic sample:



Define your population: This is the group from which you are sampling.Settle on a sample size: How many subjects do you want/need to sample from the population to get a reflective idea of it?Assign every member of the population a number: If the group you’re looking at consists of, say, 10,000 people, start lining them up and giving them numbers.Decide the sampling interval: This can be achieved by dividing the population size by the desired sample size.Choose a starting point: This can be done by selecting a random number.Identify members of your sample: If you have a starting point of 15 and a sample interval of 100, the first member of the sample would be 115, and so forth.


   Examples of Systematic Sampling  

As a hypothetical example of systematic sampling, assume that, in a population of 10,000 people, a statistician selects every 100th person for sampling. The sampling intervals can also be systematic, such as choosing a new sample to draw from every 12 hours.



As another example, if you wanted to select a random group of 1,000 people from a population of 50,000 using systematic sampling, all the potential participants must be placed on a list and a starting point would be selected. Once the list is formed, every 50th person on the list (starting the count at the selected starting point) would be chosen as a participant, since 50,000 ÷ 1,000 = 50.



For example, if the selected starting point was 20, the 70th person on the list would be chosen followed by the 120th, and so on. Once the end of the list was reached and if additional participants are required, the count loops to the beginning of the list to finish the count.






To conduct systematic sampling, researchers must first know the size of the target population.


   Types of Systematic Sampling  

Generally, there are three ways to generate a systematic sample:



Systematic random sampling: The classic form of systematic sampling where the subject is selected at a predetermined interval.Linear systematic sampling: Rather than randomly selecting the sampling interval, a skip pattern is created following a linear path.Circular systematic sampling: A sample starts again at the same point after ending.


   Systematic Sampling vs. Cluster Sampling  

Systematic sampling and cluster sampling differ in how they pull sample points from the population included in the sample. Cluster sampling breaks the population down into clusters, while systematic sampling uses fixed intervals from the larger population to create the sample.



Systematic sampling selects a random starting point from the population, then a sample is taken from regular fixed intervals of the population depending on its size. Cluster sampling divides the population into clusters and then takes a simple random sample from each cluster.



Cluster sampling is considered less precise than other methods of sampling. However, it may save costs on obtaining a sample. Cluster sampling is a two-step sampling procedure. It may be used when completing a list of the entire population is difficult. For example, it could be difficult to construct the entire population of the customers of a grocery store to interview.



However, a person could create a random subset of stores, which is the first step in the process. The second step is to interview a random sample of the customers of those stores. This is a simple, manual process that can save time and money.


   Limitations of Systematic Sampling  

One risk that statisticians must consider when conducting systematic sampling involves how the list used with the sampling interval is organized. If the population placed on the list is organized in a cyclical pattern that matches the sampling interval, the selected sample may be biased.



For example, a company’s human resources department wants to pick a sample of employees and ask how they feel about company policies. Employees are grouped in teams of 20, with each team headed by a manager. If the list used to pick the sample size is organized with teams clustered together, the statistician risks picking only managers (or no managers at all) depending on the sampling interval.




What are the advantages of systematic sampling?
Systematic sampling is simple to conduct and easy to understand, which is why it’s generally favored by researchers. The central assumption, that the results represent the majority of normal populations, guarantees that the entire population is evenly sampled.Also, systematic sampling provides an increased degree of control compared to other sampling methodologies because of its process. Systematic sampling also carries a low risk factor because there is a low chance that the data can be contaminated.




What are the disadvantages of systematic sampling?
The main disadvantage of systematic sampling is that the size of the population is needed. Without knowing the specific number of participants in a population, systematic sampling does not work well. For example, if a statistician would like to examine the age of homeless people in a specific region but cannot accurately obtain how many homeless people there are, then they won’t have a population size or a starting point. Another disadvantage is that the population needs to exhibit a natural amount of randomness to it or else the risk of choosing similar instances is increased, defeating the purpose of the sample.




How do cluster sampling and systematic sampling differ?
Cluster sampling and systematic sampling differ in how they pull sample points from the population included in the sample. Cluster sampling divides the population into clusters and then takes a simple random sample from each cluster. Systematic sampling selects a random starting point from the population, then a sample is taken from regular fixed intervals of the population depending on its size. Cluster sampling is susceptible to a larger sampling error than systematic sampling, though it may be a cheaper process.


   The Bottom Line  

Sampling can be an effective way to draw conclusions about a broad group of people, items, or something else of interest. Systematic sampling is one of the most popular ways to go about this, as it is cheaper and less time-consuming than other options. Yes, it isn’t flawless. However, if you have a large data set without patterns between intervals, systematic sampling is capable of providing reliable samples at a relatively low cost.
