What Is an E-mini?  

The term E-mini refers to an electronically-traded futures contract that is a fraction of the size of a standard contract. E-minis are used to trade a variety of assets, such as commodities and currencies, but the most commonly traded assets using E-minis are indexes.



The Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) launched the first E-mini futures contract in 1997 to give individual investors, for whom standard contract sizes were often too expensive, access to the futures market. Like other futures contracts, E-minis are traded on the CME and other exchanges, and allow investors to hedge their bets or speculate on the price movements of the underlying asset.





Key Takeaways

E-minis are electronically traded futures contracts that are a fraction of the value of corresponding standard futures contracts.These contracts are predominantly traded on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and are available on a wide range of indexes, commodities, and currencies.The first E-mini contract was launched in September 1997 and was based on the S&P 500.Traders use E-minis as a hedging tool or to speculate on the price movements of the underlying assets.Although E-minis are readily available and easily traded, they are limited in scope and may be highly volatile.


   Understanding E-minis  

All futures are financial contracts that obligate the holder to buy or sell an asset, such as a physical commodity or a financial instrument, at a predetermined future date and price. Futures contracts detail the quality and quantity of the underlying asset and are standardized to facilitate trading on a futures exchange. Some futures contracts may call for physical delivery of the asset, while others are settled in cash.



Futures contracts were typically only accessible to institutional investors because of their size, which was often too large for small investors. The CME launched the first E-mini contract in 1997 to draw in average traders who were keen on taking part in this alternative investment. This first E-mini contract allowed traders to trade S&P 500 futures. Its value was set at one-fifth of the full-sized contract.



The E-mini quickly became a success and led to other similar contracts. There are now E-mini contracts that cover a variety of assets, including:



Indexes: S&P 500, Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA), Nasdaq 100, S&P MidCap 400, and Russell 2000
Commodities: Oil, wheat, corn, soybeans, gold, copper
Currencies



The E-mini S&P 500, however, remains the most actively traded E-mini contract in the world.



Just like other futures contracts, traders can use a single E-mini contract to hedge or speculate on broad market moves. Because they are traded electronically, E-mini futures contracts trade almost 24 hours a day between Sunday and Friday. Investors are required to open an account with a brokerage firm in order to begin E-mini futures trading.






The CME delisted the standard-sized S&P 500 index futures and options (on which the E-mini contract was based) in September 2021. This contract was worth $250 times the value of the S&P 500 Index. So if the index was 2,100, the contract would be worth $525,000.


   E-minis vs. Full-Sized Futures  

E-mini contracts aren't that much different than full-sized futures contracts. These smaller contracts also allow investors to hedge or speculate on price movements of the underlying asset, whether it's an index, commodity, or currency.



As such, investors can achieve their trading strategies with E-minis, including spread trading. And E-minis are so popular that their trading volumes eclipse those of full-sized futures contracts.


   E-mini S&P 500 Futures Contract Specifications  

As noted above, the E-mini contract was created to be one-fifth of the size of the standard-sized contract. The contract size is the value of the contract based on the price of the futures contract times a contract-specific multiplier.



For instance, the E-mini S&P 500 has a contract size of $50 times the value of the S&P 500. If the S&P 500 trades at 2,580, the value of the contract is $129,000 ($50 x 2,580). This means that a 0.25 point change in the S&P 500 index has a monetary value of $12.50.



The E-mini S&P 500 trades under the Globex ticker ES. As noted above, it is available on the CME nearly 24/7 from Sunday to Friday, 6 p.m. to 5 p.m. ET with a temporary trading halt between 5 p.m. and 6 p.m. ET. Contracts are quarterly (March, June, September, December) and are listed for nine consecutive quarters as well as three additional December contract months.






IRS Form 6781 stipulates that any gains from futures contracts traded on a U.S. exchange, foreign currency contracts, dealer equities options, dealer securities futures contracts, or non-equity options contracts are taxed at a combination of the long-term and short-term capital gains rates. 60% is treated as long-term gain and 40% is treated as short-term gain regardless of the length of the contract.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of E-minis  
  Advantages  

E-minis are ideal trading instruments for active traders because they offer round-the-clock trading, low margin rates, volatility, liquidity, and greater affordability than standard contracts.



Another benefit is that the fees associated with trading E-minis are typically lower than those linked to the buying and selling of regular securities.


  Disadvantages  

As with any financial instrument, E-minis also have their downsides. For example, because of their round-the-clock and electronic trading component, the price of E-minis can move very quickly.



Another downfall to these alternative investments is their limited scope. The selection of available e-mini contracts can be limited and doesn't necessarily span as wide an array of assets as, say, an exchange-traded fund (ETF) or mutual fund.





Pros

Low costs and affordable
Nearly 24/7 trading



Cons

Highly volatile
Limited selection of contracts







What Is an E-mini S&P 500?
The E-mini S&P 500 is an electronically traded futures contract that is one-fifth the size of now-delisted standard S&P futures. Its futures and options are based on the underlying S&P 500 stock index. Consisting of 500 individual stocks representing the market capitalizations of large companies, the S&P 500 is a leading indicator of large-cap U.S. equities. The E-mini S&P 500 contract trades under the Globex code ES.




How Much Does an E-mini S&P 500 Contract Cost?
The E-mini S&P 500 is priced at $50 times the value of the S&P 500. This means if the S&P 500 is at 2,500, the value of the contract is $50 x 2,500 or $125,000.




How Much Money Do You Need to Trade E-mini Futures?
There is no legal minimum on what balance you must maintain to day trade futures, although you must have enough in the account to cover all day trading margins and fluctuations which result from your positions. These can vary by broker however some require as little as $500 to open an account.




How Much Is a Micro E-mini Futures Contract?
As the name suggests, micro E-mini futures offer investors an even cheaper futures contract than E-minis. Whereas the E-mini S&P 500 has a contract price of $50 times the S&P 500, the micro E-mini's contract price is $5 times the index.
What Is the EAFE Index?  

The EAFE Index is a stock index offered by Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI). It covers non-U.S. and non-Canadian equity markets.



The EAFE Index serves as a performance benchmark for the major international equity markets and includes companies in 21 countries in Europe, Australasia, and the Far East (East Asia).



The EAFE Index is the oldest international stock index and is also known as the MSCI EAFE Index.





Key Takeaways

The EAFE is a broad market index of stocks located within countries in Europe, Australasia, and the Far East (East Asia).Australasia is a region that includes Australia and New Zealand.Launched by Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI) in 1986, the EAFE Index contains 795 stocks from 21 countries.Israel was added to the EAFE Index in May 2010.Investors and asset managers use the EAFE Index as a performance benchmark for international developed market equities.


   Understanding the EAFE Index  

The EAFE Index was created to track the performance of mid- and large-cap stocks across 21 developed market countries in Europe, Australasia, and the Far East (EAFE). Australasia is an area that includes Australia and New Zealand. The index was launched by Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI) in 1986 and covers 795 stocks from 21 countries.



The EAFE Index is a market-capitalization-weighted index. Its individual components are weighted according to their market capitalization. This means that countries with the largest stock markets, such as Japan and the United Kingdom, have the largest relative weighting in the index.



In addition, changes in the market value of larger-cap securities will result in a bigger move in the index than changes in the market value of smaller-cap stocks.


   Countries in the EAFE Index  

The countries covered by the MSCI EAFE Index are shown in the chart below. Israel was classified by MSCI as a developed country in May 2010 and added to the EAFE Index at that time.












MSCI EAFE Index Countries
 
 
 
 


Europe
 
 
Pacific
Middle East


Austria
Germany
Portugal
Australia
Israel


Belgium
Ireland
Spain
Hong Kong



Denmark
Italy
Sweden
Japan 



Finland
Netherlands
Switzerland
Singapore
 


France
Norway
United Kingdom
New Zealand
 





   Composition of the EAFE Index  
  Companies  

As of Feb. 28, 2023, equities of companies listed on Japanese exchanges accounted for the index's largest allocation at 21.22%. The top four countries in the EAFE Index, following Japan, include the United Kingdom (15.33%), France (12.41%), Switzerland (9.84%), and Germany (8.49%).



The top 10 company listings and their index weights are shown below. These companies account for $2.15 trillion in market-cap value and approximately 14% of the index's market capitalization.









Nestlé
2.07%


ASML Holding N.V.
1.67%


Novo Nordisk B
1.56%


LVMH Moet Hennessy
1.54%


Shell
1.48%


AstraZeneca
1.36%


Roche Holding Genuss
1.36%


Novartis
1.22%


TotalEnergies
1.03%


BHP Group (AU)
1.03%





  Sectors  

The table below shows the sectors represented in the MSCI EAFE Index and their respective weights.









MSCI EAFE Index Sectors




Financials
19.19%


Industrials
15.34%


Health Care
12.73%


Consumer Discretionary
11.67%


Consumer Staples
10.07%


Information Technology
8.08%


Materials
7.7%


Energy
4.9%


Communication Services
4.45%


Utilities
3.32%


Real Estate
2.55%





   Advantages and Disadvantages of the EAFE Index  

The pros and cons of the EAFE Index discussed below relate to exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and mutual funds that are designed to track its performance.


  Advantages  

Diversification: The EAFE Index is diversified across 21 countries and more than 700 companies so investors in ETFs and mutual funds that seek to match the performance of the index can get a well-diversified international portfolio conveniently with a single purchase.



Less volatility: The performance of the EAFE Index is less volatile than some other international indices because of its focus on companies in developed countries rather than in developing or emerging market countries. So investments that track it should have less volatile performance as well.



Lower costs: Securities that seek to match the index's performance will be passively managed and, thus, be able to offer investors lower costs relative to actively-managed ETFs and mutual funds.


  Disadvantages  

Limited country exposure: Countries such as China, India, Brazil, and Russia are excluded from the EAFE Index. Therefore, investments tracking it will also exclude them and their potentially attractive return opportunities.



Less growth potential: The EAFE Index is focused on 21 companies within developed countries. This means that companies in developing and emerging market countries that may offer the potential for growth and appealing returns will be excluded from EAFE-tracking investments.



Investments based on market cap: Since the EAFE Index weights its allocations according to market capitalization, funds do the same. So, fund investments will be most concentrated in the companies of a few countries. That may limit potential return.





Pros

Diversification
Less volatility
Lower costs



Cons

Limited country exposure
Less growth potential
Investments based on market cap





   EAFE Index As a Benchmark  

Institutional investors and asset managers use the EAFE index as a performance benchmark for the international developed equity market. By comparing the performance of funds to that of the EAFE Index, a manager can ascertain whether they are adding value to their clients' portfolios.



Investors and portfolio managers who want an increased level of diversification beyond the U.S. and Canadian equity borders can include stocks from EAFE in their portfolios. Typically, this is done by purchasing index-tracking financial products, such as ETFs.



An example of an ETF that tracks the performance of the EAFE Index is the iShares MSCI EAFE ETF (EFA). EFA has net assets of $49 billion and a 0.33% expense ratio, as of February 2023. Other ETFs that mirror the performance of the EAFE Index are iShares Core MSCI EAFE (IEFA) and the iShares MSCI EAFE Small-Cap (SCZ) ETFs.


   EAFE vs. ACWI  

The MSCI ACWI (All Country World Index) represents the performance of the global market. The ACWI covers more than 2,933 companies across 47 countries—23 developed countries and 24 emerging economies. Like the EAFE, the ACWI provides a transparent vehicle that can be tracked. Investors can take advantage of potentially profitable investments in multiple capital markets throughout the world. The table below compares the performance of both indices.










Annual Performance (%)


Year
MSCI EAFE
MSCI ACWI




2022
5.84
-18.36


2021
11.26
18.54


2020
7.82
16.25


2019
22.01
26.60


2018
-13.79
-9.41


2017
25.03
23.97


2016
1.00
7.86


2015
-0.81
-2.36


2014
-4.90
4.16


2013
22.78
22.80


2012
17.32
16.13


2011
-12.14
-7.35


2010
7.75
12.67


2009
31.78
34.63







What Does MSCI EAFE Stand for?
MSCI EAFE is an international equity index. The two acronyms stand for Morgan Stanley Capital International and Europe, Australasia, and Far East.




Does MSCI EAFE Include China?
No, it excludes China and certain other countries with major economies such as India, Brazil, and Russia.




What Companies Are in the MSCI EAFE Index?
There are 21 countries included in the EAFE Index. They are Australia, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the UK.


   The Bottom Line  

The EAFE Index is an international stock index that was launched in 1986 by Morgan Stanley Capital International. The index follows the stocks of companies located in 21 developed countries throughout the world. The U.S. and Canada are among the countries excluded by the index.



The EAFE Index is used as a benchmark by managers of ETFs and mutual funds who seek to provide investors with the potential for return from the countries followed by the index and to match its performance.
What Is an Early Adopter?  

The term "early adopter" refers to an individual or business who uses a new product, innovation, or technology before others. An early adopter is likely to pay more for the product than later adopters but accepts this premium if using the product improves efficiency, reduces cost, increases market penetration, or raises the early adopter's social status.



Companies rely on early adopters to provide feedback about product deficiencies and to cover the cost of the product's research and development.





Key Takeaways

Early adopters in the business world face a high level of risk in that they are using a product or technology that may not be perfected.Early adopters often pay more for the privilege of being the first to try a product.Early adopters may enjoy a period of prestige by being the first to own a new form of technology, yet they also face the high probability that the equipment or service they are using will be made obsolete.Early adopters often become opinion leaders or have an influence on the new technology because they are the first to use it and provide feedback.An early adopter is one of five stages of technology adoption. The others being innovators, early majority, late majority, and laggards.


   How an Early Adopter Works  

The rate of diffusion, or adoption, of a new product by the market at large can vary according to the type of product and its price. Early adopters in the business world face a high level of risk in that they are using a product or technology that may not be perfected, and which may not work with the products used by suppliers and customers or may not be compatible with other products they own.



The term "early adopter" comes from a book by Everett M. Rogers, titled, Diffusion of Innovations (1962) in which he discusses five types of adopter stages for products. The five types are (1) innovator, (2) early adopter, (3) early majority, (4) late majority, and (5) laggard.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Being an Early Adopter  

Early adopters of hardware that is content-reliant may face a lack of ways they can use their equipment until producers catch up. For example, early adopters of recorded media players may have only had a shortlist of titles they could choose from when the hardware was first released from manufacturers. The expectation is that over time, more content would become available for the chosen media format, but there is no guarantee.



For instance, after the introduction of high-definition television, early adopters waited for television broadcasters to supply more and more of their shows in the new format that took advantage of the higher visual clarity. When it came to high-definition home video playback, a format war arose between manufacturers of Blu-ray and HD DVD players. Early adopters of either disc player were anticipating their format would eventually win out as the high-definition video disc of choice for the market.



In those early years, entertainment companies released movies and the video content might have been published on either one of the formats. This left early adopters with limited options on the content their disc players could access. Only rarely did content get published by entertainment companies for both standards. Eventually, the Blu-Ray platform became universally adopted for high definition video discs, leaving early adopters of HD DVD players with unsupported equipment that would have to be replaced.



Early adopters may enjoy a period of prestige by being the first to own a new form of technology, yet they also face the high probability that the equipment or service they are using will be made obsolete in future iterations of the product. In addition, the price they pay to be an early adopter is high as the technology is new. This also results in a loss of value as successive iterations will be more advanced. As a result, early adopters experience more defects in new technology that hasn't been fully tested.



As early adopters are the first to use a product they can provide feedback to the manufacturer about where the product can be improved, thereby having some influence on the technology. This unique position can also lead them to be a thought leader on the new tech as they are one of the few people who know how the technology works. If they position this right, it can lead to competitive advantages.





Pros

Prestige
Some influence on developing the technology
Gaining a competitive advantage
Becoming a thought leader on the tech



Cons

Limitations in applicability
Risk of utilizing soon to be obsolete product
High price for new technology
Loss of value
Higher risk of defects





   Special Considerations  

The five stages of technology adoption are as follows:


  Innovators  

Innovators are those that adopt new technology first. They tend to be younger in age, take more risks, are in a higher social class, have greater access to wealth, and have access to scientific resources and other innovators.


  Early Adopters  

Early adopters are the class right after innovators in using new technology. Like innovators, early adopters have greater access to wealth, are younger in age, and have higher education. They are more selective in their adoption of new technology and become opinion leaders on the new innovations.


  Early Majority  

The early majority group adopts new technology way after innovators and early adopters do. Once new technology is accepted by the early majority it tends to become widely adopted soon after. The early majority group adopts new technology due to utility and practicality.


  Late Majority  

Members of the late majority group adopt technology well after the average person has. They are more cautious and skeptical of new technology and resist until it is widely accepted or impossible to ignore. They typically need assistance in understanding the new technology.


  Laggards  

Laggards are those that adopt new technology last because they have to and there is no other option for them. They tend to be advanced in age and focus on what they were comfortable with in their younger years.


   Example of Early Adopter  

As the world began to focus on climate change and reducing carbon emissions, electric cars became a point of discussion. Elon Musk created Tesla, one of the first producers of an electric car. Not only is the auto industry notoriously difficult to break into but doing so with a car that doesn't rely on the combustible engine but rather electricity and batteries is significantly harder.



But Elon Musk did that and successfully so. He introduced new technology and disrupted the market. When the first cars were released, many individuals opted to buy Tesla's cars instead of traditional cars, becoming early adopters of the technology.



Initially, this was a big risk as the product was new and not fully tested, the cars were expensive and still are to this day, and there were not many charging stations available for the car as the entire operational grid had not yet been created.



These early adopters of Tesla carried a bit of mystique and prestige in being the first individuals to use new, ground-breaking technology and own an automobile that very few people did. Over time, the price of the cars has come down, the quality has gotten better, and charging stations are widely available.


   Early Adopter FAQs  
  What Is the Early Adopter Tax?  

The early adopter tax refers to the premium that early adopters pay for new technology as new tech always costs more upon release. In addition to the cost, the early adopter tax includes the bugs and defects in new technology that have not yet been ironed out, as well as missing out on the new features that are included in successive iterations.


  How Do You Market to Early Adopters?  

The best ways to market to early adopters include understanding what they need, meeting them in person, providing them with a product they can use right away, targeting specific individuals and companies, addressing an existing alternative, and telling a story.


  What Percentage of People Are Early Adopters?  

Approximately 13.5% of people are early adopters.


   The Bottom Line  

Early adopters are those individuals that use new products before the majority of people. They are risk-takers and trendsetters and have a strong influence on the success or failure of a new product. It is for this reason many businesses seek to gain the approval of early adopters. Though early adopters can become opinion leaders on new technology they also incur higher costs from using new tech and are at risk of losing value if the new technology is not accepted on a wider scale.
What Is Early Exercise?  

Early exercise of an options contract is the process of buying or selling shares of stock under the terms of that option contract before its expiration date. For call options, the options holder can demand that the options seller sell shares of the underlying stock at the strike price. For put options it is the converse: the options holder may demand that the options seller buy shares of the underlying stock at the strike price.





Key Takeaways

Early exercise is the process of buying or selling shares under the terms of an options contract before the expiration date of that option.Early exercise is only possible with American-style options.Early exercise makes sense when an option is close to its strike price and close to expiration.Employees of startups and companies can also choose to exercise their options early to avoid the alternative minimum tax (AMT).


   Understanding Early Exercise  

Early exercise is only possible with American-style option contracts, which the holder may exercise at any time up to expiration. With European-style option contracts, the holder may only exercise on the expiration date, making early exercise impossible.



Most traders do not use early exercise for options they hold. Traders will take profits by selling their options and closing the trade. Their goal is to realize a profit from the difference between the selling price and their original option purchase price. 



For a long call or put, the owner closes a trade by selling, rather than exercising the option. This trade often results in more profit due to the amount of time value remaining in the long option lifespan. The more time there is before expiration, the greater the time value that remains in the option. Exercising that option results in an automatic loss of that time value.


   Benefits of Early Exercise  

There are certain circumstances under which early exercise may be advantageous for a trader:



For example, a trader may choose to exercise a call option that is deeply in-the-money (ITM) and is relatively near expiration. Because the option is ITM, it will typically have negligible time value.
Another reason for early exercise may be a pending ex-dividend date of the underlying stock. Since options holders are not entitled to either regular or special dividends paid by the underlying company, this will enable the investor to capture that dividend. It should more than offset the marginal time value lost due to an early exercise.


   Early Exercise and Employee Options  

There is another type of early exercise that pertains to company awarded stock options (ESO) given to employees. If the particular plan allows, employees may exercise their awarded stock options before they become fully vested employees. A person may choose this option to obtain a more favorable tax treatment.



However, the employee will have to foot the cost to buy the shares before taking full vested ownership. Also, any purchased shares must still follow the vesting schedule of the company's plan.



The money outlay of early exercise within a company plan is the same as waiting until after vesting, ignoring the time value of money. However, since the payment is shifted to the present, it may be possible to avoid short-term taxation and the alternative minimum tax (AMT). Of course, it does introduce the risk that the company may not be around when the shares are fully vested.


   Early Exercise Example  

Suppose an employee is awarded 10,000 options to buy company ABC's stock at $10 per share. They vest after two years.



The employee exercises 5,000 of those options to purchase ABC's stock, which is valued at $15, after a year. Exercising those options will cost $7,000 based on a federal AMT rate of 28%. However, the employee can reduce the federal tax percentage by holding onto the exercised options for another year to meet requirements for long-term capital gains tax.
What Is Earmarking?  

Earmarking is the practice of setting particular money aside for a specific purpose. The term can be used in several contexts, such as in congressional appropriations of taxpayer funds to individual practices like mental accounting.





Key Takeaways

Earmarking is the process whereby people or organizations appropriate specific money for specific purposes.In organizations, earmarking relates to how companies or governments budget spending.For individuals, earmarking can imbue money with symbolic value based on who or what it is earmarked for, with mental accounting being a special case of self-earmarking one's funds.


   Understanding Earmarking  

The phrase has an agricultural origin. Farmers would cut recognizable notches in their livestock's ears to mark the animals as belonging to them. In its most basic sense, to earmark is to flag something for a specific purpose. In practice, it generally means to set funds aside for a particular project. A company might earmark a sum to spend on upgrading its IT system, or a city government might earmark the proceeds of a municipal bond issue to pay for a new road or bridge.



In social science, the term earmarking has been associated with the economic sociologist Viviana Zelizer, who identifies the practice of earmarking as imbuing certain dollars with specific meaning related to the relational ties and cultural meaning for what that money is earmarked for—claiming the "not all dollars are equal."



Therefore, money earmarked for a loved one will be treated more carefully than money for a friend. Likewise, people may be more willing to lend money to somebody they trust than a stranger. The behavioral economics concept of mental accounting is a case of personal earmarking whereby people allocate money to specific tasks or purposes, making those funds non-fungible.


   Earmarking Doctrine in Bankruptcy Law  

In bankruptcy law, the earmarking doctrine allows certain borrowed funds to be excluded from a bankrupt party's assets, as long as they were lent to the borrower 90 or fewer days before the bankruptcy filing and were lent with the express intention of paying a specific creditor.



Earmarking ensures that the funds will go to the intended creditor, rather than being subject to claims by other creditors who have preference in the bankruptcy proceedings. The doctrine is based on the idea that, because there was no net decrease in the bankrupt party's asset base, the funds never really belonged to the bankrupt party; they "borrowed from Peter to pay Paul."


   Earmarks in Politics and Appropriations  

Earmarking is a longstanding and controversial practice in the U.S. Congress, where parties have historically won support for contentious votes by offering or threatening to revoke funds for projects in particular members' districts. Absent such earmarking, funds are apportioned to agencies of the executive branch, which decide what specific projects to spend federal money on.



Say, for example, that a party wants to pass a law banning a particular toxic substance, a move that would be popular with its supporters nationwide. The party controls the minimum number of seats to pass the law, but one member is hesitant to vote for it because a factory in their district would have to cut jobs if the substance were banned. To win the member's vote, the party might amend the bill to include an earmark: a port in their district would receive federal funds for an upgrade, rather than a port a hundred miles up the coast.



Such earmarks, also known as "pork-barrel spending" or "pork" for short, are controversial. They are seen as a form of corruption, allowing D.C. power brokers to trade in the fortunes of the people they represent and squander taxpayers' money on giveaways to particular districts.


  The "Bridge to Nowhere"  

The most famous recent example of an earmark is the "Bridge to Nowhere," a $398 million bridge that would have connected an island housing an airport and 50 permanent residents to a larger island containing the city of Ketchikan, Alaska. In 2005, members of Congress pushed to defund the bridge and divert the money to rebuild a bridge destroyed by Hurricane Katrina, but Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) threatened to quit Congress if the earmark was scrapped.



The bridge was not built, but funds for a road leading to it continued to flow, so the state built a three-mile highway from the airport that dead-ends at the shore, passing nothing on the way.


  Earmarking Moratorium  

Outrage over pork led Congress to ban earmarks in 2011, with Republicans leading the effort. Citizens Against Government Waste, a fiscally conservative watchdog group, claims that this ban has failed in practice, writing in its 2017 Pig Book, "Pork-barrel spending is alive and well in Washington, D.C., despite claims to the contrary." The group counted 285 earmarks worth $16.8 billion in fiscal 2021, up from 274 worth $15.9 billion the previous year and a 74.8% increase from the 163 in 2017.


  In Favor of Political Earmarks  

Leaving aside the ban's effectiveness, some commentators have called for earmarking to be restored. In a 2014 New York Times op-ed, Columbia journalism professor Thomas Edsall argued, "The prohibition on earmarks has done nothing to restore respect for Congress. Just the opposite. It has contributed to legislative gridlock and increased the difficulty of winning enactment of tax and immigration reform."



Edsall also wrote that earmarks' role in building majorities was "essential," and that banning them would have little effect on the perception of Congress as corrupt, due to the near simultaneous loosening of campaign finance laws (the Citizens United decision was handed down in 2010).



Another argument in favor of the practice of earmarking is that members of Congress are more accountable than the bureaucrats who otherwise make decisions about how to allocate money apportioned to their agencies. These members of the executive branch are appointed by the White House and cannot directly be voted out of their positions.



Finally, some consider the costs of earmarking to be negligible compared to the costs of the gridlock Edsall described. Notably, $398 million for a questionable bridge pales in comparison to the monetary and nonmonetary costs of a broken immigration system, tax code, or healthcare sector, the argument goes.
What Is Earned Income?  

Earned income is money received as pay for work performed, such as wages, salaries, bonuses, commissions, tips, and net earnings from self-employment. It can also include long-term disability, union strike benefits, and, in some cases, payments from certain deferred retirement compensation arrangements.



Earned income can be contrasted with unearned income, also known as passive income, which is money not acquired through working.





Key Takeaways

Earned income is any income received from a job or self-employment.Earned income may include wages, salary, tips, bonuses, and commissions.Income derived from investments and government benefit programs would not be considered earned income.Earned income is taxed differently from unearned income.Employed taxpayers with lower incomes may be eligible for an earned income tax credit (EITC).


   Understanding Earned Income  

For tax purposes, earned income is any income you receive for work you have done for an employer or a business of your own.



Examples of income that isn’t considered earned include government benefits, such as payments from the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program (often referred to as welfare), unemployment, workers’ compensation, and Social Security. Also excluded are disbursements from non-deferred pensions and retirement plans, alimony, capital gains, interest income from a bank account, stock dividends, bond interest, passive income generated from rental property, and salaries paid to inmates who work in a penal institution.



Both earned and other types of income are generally taxable, although sometimes at different percentage rates. For example, in the 2022 and 2023 tax years, the federal government taxes earned income at seven separate rates (or brackets), ranging from 10% to 37%. The thresholds tend to rise yearly to account for inflation and differ for single filers, married couples filing jointly, and heads of households.






Long-term capital gains on assets held for a year or more are taxed at 0%, 15%, and 20%, depending on the amount and your filing status. Short-term capital gains, which have been held for less than a year, are taxed at the same rate as your earned income.


   Tax Considerations  

Determining whether income is earned or unearned—and reporting it on the appropriate lines of a Form 1040 or other tax return—is relatively straightforward. For some taxpayers, however, other ramifications of earned income are worth considering.



If you are receiving Social Security benefits, for example, you may have to pay income tax on a portion of those benefits if you have earned income (or other income) over a certain threshold. In that case, up to either 50% or 85% of your benefits will be subject to tax, depending on your income and filing status. This can be an important consideration for people who plan to continue working after they are eligible for Social Security benefits or are deciding whether to delay filing for benefits.



If you are self-employed, you also need to consider how much earned (and other) income you expect to have for the year and pay estimated taxes each quarter based on that amount. If you fail to pay enough tax throughout the year, you’ll have to make it up when you file your tax return, and you also may be subject to Internal Revenue Service (IRS) penalties.






If you receive Social Security benefits, having earned income can affect whether those benefits are taxable.


   Types of Earned Income  

Taxpayers may collect an array of earned income, and a single taxpayer may collect more than one type of earned income at any given time. Below are examples of types of earned income.



Salaries/Wages: Salaries or wages are the most common type of earned income. Salaries or wages refer to the amount of money that an individual earns from their employer in exchange for their work. In most cases, payment for labor, whether hourly or salary, counts as earned income. 
Self-Employment Income: On a similar note, it may not matter who pays you. Whether you work for yourself or for someone else's company, both types of income are considered earned. For self-employed individuals, this includes freelancers, consultants, and small business owners.
Tips and Commissions: Tips, commissions, or other non-guarantee types of pay are payments that individuals receive in addition to their regular salary or wages. Tips are common in the service industry, while commissions are often paid to salespeople or other individuals who earn a percentage of sales they generate. Both types may or may not be paid out, yet both are commonly treated as earned. 
Bonuses: Bonuses are another type of non-guaranteed payment that individuals may receive from their employer for meeting certain performance goals or achieving other milestones. Because this is additional compensation earned during the course of work for performance, it is considered earned. 
Honorarium: Honorariums are payments for services such as speaking at an event, writing an article, or participating in a convention. Because this payment is being exchanged for a service, it is earned. 
Long-term disability benefits: Long-term disability retirement benefits claimed before reaching the minimum retirement age may qualify as earned income.


   Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC)  

If you have a relatively low earned income and meet other qualifications, you may be eligible for the federal earned income tax credit (EIC or EITC), a refundable tax credit that can reduce your tax bill or result in a refund. To qualify for the credit, you must file a tax return even if you don’t owe any tax or otherwise wouldn’t be required to file one.



The EITC was conceived as a type of “work bonus plan” to supplement the wages of low-income workers, help offset the effect of Social Security taxes, and encourage work as a way to move people off welfare. It continues to be viewed as an anti-poverty tax benefit aimed to reward people for employment.


   Qualification for the Earned Income Tax Credit  

To qualify for the EITC, you must have worked during the year and earned an income below $59,187. You may have investment income, but it must be below $10,300. You must also:



Have a valid Social Security number by the due date of your tax return (includes extensions)Be a U.S. citizen or a resident alien all yearNot file Form 2555 for Foreign Earned IncomeMeet certain qualifying rules if you are separated from your spouse and not filing a joint tax return



The amount of EITC benefit you can receive depends on your income and the number of dependents you claim:










Number of Children
2022 (filed in 2023)
2023 (filed in 2024)




 0
 $560
$600 


 1
 $3,733
 $3,995


2 
 $6,164
 $6,604


3 or more
$6,935
$7,430






If you are unsure whether you qualify or have questions about your specific situation, seek advice from the IRS or an independent tax expert. Most of this information will also be included in any tax filing software you use.


   Example of Earned Income  

Imagine a taxpayer who earned a $50,000 salary from their day job, $10,000 bonus for their performance, $5,000 wage from their side gig, and $500 tip for that side gig. In addition, that taxpayer earned $1,000 in ordinary dividends and recognized $25,000 of capital gain distributions.



In this example, the taxpayer must calculate their earned income to appropriately their tax liability. Based on the numbers above, the only forms of earned income include:



Salary ($50,000)Bonus ($10,000)Wages ($5,000)Tips ($500)



Therefore, the taxpayer's earned income is $65,500. The remaining $26,000 ($1,000 of ordinary dividends and $25,000 of capital gain distributions) are not considered earned income.




What Are Some Examples of Unearned Income?
Unearned income includes interest from savings, certificates of deposit (CDs), or other bank accounts, bond interest, alimony, capital gains, and dividends from stock. Income from retirement accounts, Social Security benefits, inheritances, gifts, welfare payments, rental income, and annuities are all also classified as unearned income.




How Do I Know If I Have Earned Income?
First, you need to know if you had any type of income at all. Consider avenues in which you received compensation in return for something, whether it was time spent working a job or profit for selling something.Then, compared your activity against IRS-guidance manuals to determine if that activity is earned or unearned income. Very broadly speaking, if you earned money for a job, it was likely earned income.




What Is the Difference Between Earned and Unearned Income?
Earned income comes from working, while unearned income does not. The IRS may treat each type of income differently for tax purposes. Tax rates vary among sources of unearned income; most unearned income sources are not subject to payroll taxes, and none of them are subject to employment taxes such as Social Security and Medicare. Unearned income cannot be used to contribute to a qualified retirement account such as an IRA.


   The Bottom Line  

Earned income is any income that you receive from a job or self-employment. It can include wages, tips, salary, commissions, or bonuses. It is different from unearned income, which comes from things like investments or government benefits. The two types of income are taxed differently by the IRS.



If you have earned income that is below a certain threshold, you may qualify for the earned income tax credit. This is a refundable tax credit that can lower your tax bill or result in a tax refund.
What Is the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC)?  

The earned income tax credit (EITC) is a refundable tax credit that helps certain U.S. taxpayers with low earnings by reducing the amount of tax owed on a dollar-for-dollar basis. Taxpayers may be eligible for refunds if their tax credit exceeds their tax liability for the year.



Legislation enacted in 2020 recognized that many taxpayers’ incomes that year were lower than their incomes in 2019 due to the COVID-19 economic crisis and lockdown; this law allows taxpayers to base the EITC claimed on their 2020 tax returns on either their 2019 or 2020 earnings. 



For 2021 tax returns, the law liberalizes some EITC rules and makes an increased EITC available to more childless taxpayers.





Key Takeaways

The earned income tax credit (EITC) is a refundable tax credit used to supplement the wages of low-income workers and help offset the effect of Social Security taxes.The EITC is available only to taxpayers with low or moderate earnings, whether or not they have qualifying dependents.To be eligible for the EITC, a taxpayer must have accrued earnings during the tax year. However, investment income cannot have surpassed a specified level.The American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) of 2021 revised a number of EITC rules for the 2021 tax year.


   Understanding the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC)  

The earned income tax credit (EITC), also called the earned income credit (EIC), was conceived as a “work bonus plan” to supplement the wages of low-income workers and help offset the effect of Social Security taxes. It continues to be viewed as an anti-poverty tax benefit.



The EITC is available only to taxpayers with low or moderate earnings, whether or not they have qualifying dependents. To claim the credit for 2022, an individual taxpayer (or if the taxpayer is married, the individual or their spouse, filing jointly) with no qualifying dependents must be at least 19 years old and must live in the United States for more than half of the tax year. 



The credit percentage, earnings cap, and credit amount vary according to a taxpayer’s filing status and number of dependents. Qualifying dependents, which can include dependent children who are under age 19, students under age 24, or dependents with a disability. These factors also determine the income phaseout range over which the credit diminishes to zero. No credit is allowed above the ceiling for the phaseout range.



To be eligible for the EITC, a taxpayer must have earnings but cannot have investment income in excess of a specified level. For 2022, the maximum level of investment income was set at $10,300, increasing to $11,000 in 2023. Age, relationship, and residency requirements also apply with respect to qualifying dependents.



The credit reduces the amount of tax owed on a dollar-for-dollar basis. If the amount of the EITC is greater than the amount of tax owed by a taxpayer, then the taxpayer may be eligible for a refund.



The EITC is one of the most important tax credits available to individual taxpayers. The taxpayer must be a U.S. citizen or a resident alien for the entire year and have a valid Social Security number by the tax return’s due date. The amount of credit that can be claimed on a tax return depends on the taxpayer’s annual earned income for the tax year, filing status, and number of qualified dependents.


   Example of the EITC  

A refundable tax credit reduces the value of a taxpayer’s liability, dollar for dollar, and results in a refund if the liability is reduced below zero. For example, an individual who has a tax bill of $2,900 and can claim a $529 credit will owe $2,371 ($2,900 - $529 = $2,371).



That lower amount is the total that the taxpayer must pay to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for the year. If a taxpayer has a total tax liability of $1,000 and a credit of $1,500, then the taxpayer should be entitled to a refund of $500. 


   Qualifying for the EITC  

To qualify for the EITC, a taxpayer’s earned income and adjusted gross income (AGI) must be below certain income limits. The limits on the income level, credit amount, and investment income for a single or married taxpayer vary, depending on the number of qualifying dependents in the household.



For the 2022 tax year, those limits were as follows. Note that in order to receive the credit, you must have earned less than $10,300 from investments.











2022 Earned Income Tax Credit Qualifications




Children or Relatives Claimed
Maximum adjusted gross income (AGI) (Single, Head of Household, Widowed, or Married Filing Separately*)
Maximum AGI (Married Filing Jointly)
EITC Limit


0
$16,480
$22,610
$560


1
$43,492
$49,622
$3,733


2
$49,399 
$55,529
$6,164


3
$53,057
$59,187
$6,935






These limits are changed for tax year 2023, as shown below. In addition, the threshold for investment income also increased to $11,000.











2023 Earned Income Tax Credit Qualifications




Children or Relatives Claimed
Maximum adjusted gross income (AGI) (Single, Head of Household, Widowed, or Married Filing Separately*)
Maximum AGI (Married Filing Jointly)
EITC Limit


0
$17,640
$24,210
$600


1
$46,560
$53,120
$3,995


2
$52,918 
$59,478
$6,604


3
$56,838
$63,698
$7,430






*Taxpayers who claim the EITC under married filing separately must meet the eligibility requirements under the special rule in the American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) of 2021.



As shown in the table above, a single filer with no dependents who earned less than $16,480 in 2022 is eligible for an EITC of up to $560, depending on AGI. On the other hand, a married taxpayer and spouse filing jointly, having two children who are qualifying dependents, can claim up to a maximum EITC of $6,164 if the total of the couple’s earned income in 2022 was less than $55,529.



Taxpayers who are married filing separately can qualify for this credit provided that they meet the eligibility requirements under the ARPA. The tax law provides special EITC rules for clergy and members of the military stationed abroad, and specific rules coordinating the credit with the tax laws applicable in Puerto Rico, Guam, and American Samoa.




What Is the Difference Between a Tax Credit and a Tax Deduction?
A tax credit lowers the amount of tax you owe on a dollar-by-dollar basis. For example, a $1,000 tax credit means that you owe $1,000 less in taxes. By contrast, a tax deduction lowers your taxable income. If your taxable income drops by $1,000 and you're in the 24% tax bracket, you'd save $240 in taxes.




How Much Income Can You Earn in Investments and Still Take the EITC?
For the 2022 tax year, the maximum investment income you can earn from investments rose from $10,000 to $10,300. For 2023, the figure is $11,000.




How Do You Qualify for the Earned Income Tax Credit?
In order to qualify for the earned income tax credit, a taxpayer must be a U.S. citizen or resident alien for the entire tax year, with a social security card that was issued before they file their tax return. In addition, they must have worked and had an earned income that was lower than the EITC income threshold for the tax year. Investment income must also be below a certain limit, and the taxpayer cannot claim foreign earned income that year. Members of the military, clergy, and dependents with disabilities also have special rules.
What Is an Earned Premium?  

The term earned premium refers to the premium collected by an insurance company for the portion of a policy that has expired. It is what the insured party has paid for a portion of time in which the insurance policy was in effect, but has since expired. Since the insurance company covers the risk during that time, it considers the associated premium payments it takes from the insured party as unearned. Once the time has expired, it can then record it as earned or as a profit.


   Understanding Earned Premiums  

An earned insurance premium is commonly used in the insurance industry. Because policyholders pay premiums in advance, insurers don't immediately consider premiums paid for an insurance contract as earnings. While the policyholder meets their financial obligation and receives the benefits, an insurer's obligation begins when it receives the premium.



When the premium is paid, it is considered an unearned premium—not a profit. That's because, as mentioned above, the insurance company still has an obligation to fulfill. The insurer can change the status of the premium from unearned to earned only when the entire premium is considered profit.






The earned premium for a full year policy, paid up front and in effect for 90 days, would be for those 90 days.



Say the insurance company records the premium as an earning, and the time period hasn't elapsed. But the insured party files a claim during that time period. The insurance company will have to reconcile its books to unwind the transaction listing the premium as an earning. So it makes more sense to hold off on recording it as an earning in the event that a claim is filed.





Key Takeaways

An earned premium is the premium used for the time period in which the insurance policy was in effect.Insurance companies can record earned premiums as revenue after the premium's coverage period expires.Earned premiums can be calculated by using the accounting method and the exposure method.


   Special Considerations  

There are two different ways to calculate earned premiums: The accounting method and the exposure method.



The accounting method is the most commonly used. This method is the one used to show earned premium on the majority of insurers' corporate income statements. The calculation used in this method involves dividing the total premium by 365 and multiplying the result by the number of elapsed days. For example, an insurer who receives a $1,000 premium on a policy that has been in effect for 100 days would have an earned premium of $273.97 ($1,000 ÷ 365 x 100).



The exposure method does not take into account the date a premium is booked. Instead, it looks at how premiums are exposed to losses over a given period of time. It is a complicated method and involves examining the portion of unearned premium exposed to loss during the period being calculated. The exposure method involves the examination of different risk scenarios using historical data that may occur over a period of time—from high-risk to low-risk scenarios—and applies the resulting exposure to premiums earned.


   Earned vs. Unearned Premiums  

While earned premiums refers to any premiums paid in advance that are earned and belong to the insurer, unearned premiums are different. These are premiums collected in advance by insurance companies who are required to give them back to policyholders if coverage is terminated before the period covered by the premium is over.



Say, for example, you take out an automobile insurance policy and prepay for a six-month term. If you get into a car crash and total your vehicle in the second month of the policy, the insurance company keeps the premiums paid for the first two months. These are the company's earned premiums. But the remaining four months' worth of premiums are returned to the insured party. Because they are unused, they are called unearned premiums. Similarly, if a policyholder pays $200 per month for a 12-month insurance policy and decides to terminate coverage after three months, the insurance company keeps $600 as earned premiums and refunds $1,800 to the policyholder as unearned premiums.
What Is Earnest Money?  

Earnest money is a deposit made to a seller that represents a buyer's good faith to make a purchase such as the acquisition of a new home. The money gives the buyer extra time to get financing and conduct the title search, property appraisal, and inspections before closing. In many ways, earnest money can be considered a deposit on a home, an escrow deposit, or good faith money.





Key Takeaways

Earnest money is essentially a deposit a buyer makes on a home they want to purchase.A contract is written up during the exchange of the earnest money that outlines the conditions for refunding the amount.Earnest money deposits can be anywhere from 1–10% of the sales price, depending mostly on market interest.Should a buyer break the terms of the contract, they may be at risk of losing their earnest money deposit. However, there are a number of potentially agreed-upon contingencies that may protect the buyer from backing out of a deal but still keeping all of their earnest money. 












Investopedia / Ellen Lindner


   Understanding Earnest Money  

In most cases, earnest money is delivered when the sales contract or purchase agreement is signed, but it can also be attached to the offer. Once deposited, the funds are typically held in an escrow account until closing, at which time the deposit is applied to the buyer's down payment and closing costs.



When a buyer decides to purchase a home from a seller, both parties enter into a contract. The contract doesn't obligate the buyer to purchase the home, because reports from the home appraisal and inspection may later reveal problems with the house. The contract does, however, ensure the seller takes the house off the market while it's inspected and appraised. To prove the buyer's offer to purchase the property is made in good faith, the buyer makes an earnest money deposit (EMD).



The buyer might be able to reclaim the earnest money deposit if something that was specified ahead of time in the contract goes wrong. For instance, the earnest money would be returned if the house doesn't appraise for the sales price or the inspection reveals a serious defect—provided these contingencies are listed in the contract.






In general, earnest money is returned to the buyer if the seller terminates the deal but is awarded to the seller if the buyer unreasonably terminates the deal.


   How Much Are the Earnest Money Amounts?  

While the buyer and seller can negotiate the earnest money deposit, it often ranges between 1% and 2% of the home's purchase price, depending on the market. In hot housing markets, the earnest money deposit might range between 5% and 10% of a property's sale price.



While the earnest money deposit is often a percentage of the sales price, some sellers prefer a fixed amount, such as $5,000 or $10,000. Of course, the higher the earnest money amount, the more serious the seller is likely to consider the buyer. Therefore, a buyer should offer a high enough earnest deposit to be accepted, but not one so high as to put extra money at risk.



A seller may also require ongoing, periodic earnest deposits to have a prospective buyer continue to show good faith during their due diligence process. For example, a seller may require a buyer to make monthly earnest deposits on a fixed schedule over a three month due diligence period. Should the buyer fail to meet any earnest money deposit requirements, the seller may be entitled to bring the property back to market and potentially recover losses via keeping portions of the earnest money.


   How Is Earnest Money Paid?  

Earnest money is usually paid by certified check, personal check, or a wire transfer into a trust or escrow account that is held by a real estate brokerage, legal firm, or title company. The funds are held in the account until closing, when they are applied toward the buyer's down payment and closing costs.



It's important to note that escrow accounts, like any other bank account, can earn interest. If the earnest funds in the escrow account earn interest of more than $600, the buyer must fill out tax form W-9 with the IRS to receive the interest.






Different jurisdictions may have different legal circumstances around earnest money. For example, Washington state legislature stipulates slightly different definitions than Minnesota statutes.


   Is Earnest Money Refundable?  

Earnest money isn't always refundable. The good news for buyers is in most situations, as long as a buyer acts in good faith, earnest money is refundable. As long as any contract agreements are not broken or decision deadlines are met, buyers usually get their earnest money back. Specific conditions where buyers often get their earnest money back include:



If a home inspection reveals there are material issues with a property being sold. The buyer can usually choose to negotiate who is responsible for the repairs or can back out of the purchase.If a home appraises for lower value than the agreed purchase price. The buyer can negotiate a lower purchase price or can back out of the purchase price. If a buyer is unable to sell their current house (as long as this home sale contingency is agreed upon).If a buyer is unable to obtain a loan/financing (as long as this funding contingency is agreed upon). 



Every situation is different, but broadly speaking, the seller gets to keep the earnest money if the buyer decides not to go through with the home purchase for reasons not specified as part of the contract. For example, if a buyer simply has a change of heart decides not to buy the property, the seller is most likely entitled to retain earnest money proceeds.


   Protecting Your Earnest Money Deposit  

Prospective buyers can do several things to protect their earnest money deposits.



Make sure contingencies for financing and inspections are included in the contract. Without these, the deposit could be forfeited if the buyer can't get financing or a serious defect is found during the inspection.Ensure contract terms are in writing. The contract agreement between a buyer and seller should be in writing. This clarifies any misunderstandings and sets the precedence for terms of the agreement. Amendments to the contract are always allowable, but ensure that every iteration of the agreement is in writing and signed by both parties. Read, understand, and abide by the terms of the contract. For example, if the contract states the home inspection must be completed by a certain date, the buyer must meet that deadline or risk losing the deposit—and the house.Utilize an escrow account to hold funds. Do not send escrow money directly to the seller; if the funds are in direct possession by the other party, they can control the funds and not release funds even if you are entitled to earnest money refunds.Make sure the deposit is handled appropriately. The deposit should be payable to a reputable third party, such as a well-known real estate brokerage, escrow company, title company, or legal firm (never give the deposit directly to the seller). Buyers should verify the funds will be held in an escrow account and always obtain a receipt. 


   Example of Earnest Money  

Suppose Tom wants to buy a home worth $100,000 from Joy. To facilitate the transaction, the broker arranges to deposit $10,000 as a deposit in an escrow account. The terms of the subsequent agreement signed by both parties state that Joy, who is currently living in the home, will move out of it within the next six months.



However, Joy is unable to find another place of residence by moving day. As a result, Tom cancels the transaction and gets his deposit money back. The deposit money has earned interest of $500 from the escrow account during this time period. Since the amount is less than $600, Tom is not required to fill out an IRS form to retrieve the amount.




What Is an Earnest Money Payment?
In real estate, earnest money is effectively a deposit to buy a home. Usually, it ranges between 1-10% of the home’s sale price. While earnest money doesn’t obligate a buyer to purchase a home, it does require the seller to take the property off of the market during the appraisal process. Earnest money is deposited to represent good faith in purchasing the home.




Who Keeps Earnest Money If a Deal Falls Through?
Earnest money gets returned if something goes awry during the appraisal that was predetermined in the contract. This could include an appraisal price that is lower than the sale price, or if there is a significant flaw with the house. Importantly, though, earnest money may not be returned if the flaw was not predetermined in the contract or if the buyer decides not to purchase the house during an agreed-upon time period. 




How Can Earnest Money Be Protected?
To protect an earnest money deposit, prospective buyers can follow a number of precautionary steps. First, buyers can ensure that contingencies apply to defects, financing, and inspections. This protects the deposit from being forfeited in the case that a major flaw is discovered, or that financing is not secured. Second, carefully read and follow the terms of the contract. In some cases, the contract will indicate a certain date by which the inspection must be made. To prevent forfeiture, the buyer should abide by these terms accordingly. Finally, ensure the deposit is handled adequately, which means that the buyer should work with a reputable broker, title firm, escrow company, or legal firm. 




Do You Get Earnest Money Back?
As long as a buyer follows the terms of the contract and adheres to all deadlines agreed to with the seller, a buyer will most often receive their full earnest money deposit(s) back. Should the buyer fail to comply with the agreement, the seller may be entitled to receive some or all earnest deposit funds.




How Do You Lose Earnest Money?
In an agreement between a buyer and seller, there are often a number of contingencies outlined that spell out the terms where a buyer may back out of an agreement. These contingencies include failure of a home inspection, failure to secure financing, or failure to sell a separate existing property.If the buyer decides to not proceed with the sale for reasons outside of these agreed to contingencies, the buyer is at risk of losing earnest money.


   The Bottom Line  

When a buyer and seller enter into an initial agreement to transfer ownership right of property, the buyer is often required to make a deposit of earnest money into an escrow account. There's a number of reasons the buyer and seller can agree to where the buyer can back out of the agreement. However, should the buyer break contract or not meet required deadlines, the seller may be entitled to keep the earnest money as compensation for the break of good faith.
What Are Earnings?  

A company's earnings are its after-tax net income. This is the company's bottom line or its profits.



Earnings are perhaps the single most important and most closely studied number in a company's financial statements. It shows a company's real profitability compared to the analyst estimates, its own historical performance, and the earnings of its competitors and industry peers.



Earnings are the main determinant of a public company's share price because they can be used in only two ways: They can be invested in the business to increase its earnings in the future, or they can be used to reward stockholders with dividends.





Key Takeaways

Earnings refer to a company's profits in a given quarter or fiscal year.Earnings are a key figure used to determine a stock's value.A company's earnings are used in many common ratios.Earnings have a big impact on stock price, and as a result, the numbers are subject to potential manipulation.


   Understanding Earnings  

Earnings are the profit that a company produces in a specific period, usually defined as a quarter or a year. After the end of each quarter, analysts wait for the earnings of the companies they follow to be released. Earnings are studied because they represent a direct link to company performance.



Earnings that deviate from the expectations of the analysts that follow that stock can have a great impact on the stock's price, at least in the short term. For instance, if analysts on average estimate that earnings will be $1 per share and they come in at $0.80 per share, the price of the stock is likely to fall on that "earnings miss."



A company that beats analysts' earnings estimates is looked on favorably by investors. A company that consistently misses earnings estimates may be considered an unattractive and risky investment, or needs to improve its financial forecasting abilities for better earnings guidance but its stock price gets hurt in the process.



There are exceptions to these outcomes depending on the circumstances of the company. For example, Amazon (AMZN) missed its estimates for several quarters in the early 2000s while it was building out its various business units. Some investors were able to understand the long-term potential, and it continued to attract investors.



The opposite example is Google, a company known for underpromising and overdelivering. Hence, Google has repeatedly beat earnings expectations. However, the analysts' community understood that and started to embed Google's conservative strategy into the EPS expectations.



Generally, a new, entrepreneurial company that is seen as having strong potential can survive a few disappointing quarters, though it generally needs a good explanation for the earnings miss. As was the case for Amazon, that explanation was a heavy investment in future earnings.


   Measures of Earnings  

There are many measures and uses of earnings. Some analysts like to calculate earnings before taxes (EBT), also known as pre-tax income. Some analysts prefer to see earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT). Still, other analysts, mainly in industries with a high level of fixed assets, prefer to see earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, also known as EBITDA.



All three figures provide varying degrees of measuring profitability.


  Earnings per Share  

Earnings per share (EPS) is a commonly cited ratio used to show the company's profitability on a per-share basis. It is calculated by dividing the company's total earnings by the number of shares outstanding.


  Price-to-Earnings  

Earnings are also used to determine a key indicator known as the price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio.



The price-to-earnings ratio, calculated as share price divided by earnings per share, is used by investors and analysts to compare the relative values of companies in the same industry or sector.



The stock of a company with a high P/E ratio relative to its industry peers may be considered overvalued. A company with a low price compared with its earnings might appear to be undervalued.


  Earnings Yield  

The earnings yield, or the earnings per share for the most recent 12-month period divided by the current market price per share, is another way of measuring earnings. It is in fact simply the inverse of the P/E ratio.


   Criticism of Earnings  

Since corporate earnings are such an important metric and have a direct impact on share price, managers may be tempted to manipulate earnings figures. This is both illegal and unethical.



Some companies attempt to sway investors by prominently displaying their earnings on their financial statements in order to hide deficiencies reported lower down that reveal weaknesses like dubious accounting practices or an unanticipated drop in sales. These companies are said to have a poor or weak quality of earnings.



The earnings per share number may also be inflated with share buybacks or other methods of changing the number of shares outstanding. Companies can do this by repurchasing shares with retained earnings or debt to make it appear as if they are generating greater profits per outstanding share.



Other companies may purchase a smaller company with a higher P/E ratio to bootstrap their own numbers into a favorable territory.



When earnings manipulations are revealed, the accounting crisis that follows often leaves shareholders on the hook for rapidly declining stock prices.
What Is an Earnings Announcement?  

An earnings announcement is an official public statement of a company's profitability for a specific period, typically a quarter or a year. An earnings announcement occurs on a specific date during earnings season and is preceded by earnings estimates issued by equity analysts. If a company has been profitable leading up to the announcement, its share price will usually increase up to and slightly after the information is released. Because earnings announcements can have such a prominent effect on the market, they are often considered when predicting the next day's open.





Key Takeaways:

An earnings announcement is an official public statement of a company's profitability, usually issued on a quarterly basis.Earnings accouncements have an effect on the share price, which will move up or down depending on the company's performance.Analysts estimate how the company will perform, but these expectations can rapidly adjust up or down in the days leading up to the announcement.


   Understanding Earnings Announcements  

The data in the announcements must be accurate, according to Securities and Exchange Commission regulations. Because the earnings announcement is the official statement of a company's profitability, the days leading up to the announcement are often filled with speculation among investors.



Analyst estimates can be notoriously off-the-mark and can rapidly adjust up or down in the days leading up to the announcement, artificially inflating the share price and affecting speculative trading.


  Earnings Announcements and Analyst Estimates  

For analysts valuing a firm's future earnings per share (EPS), estimates are arguably the most important input. Analysts use forecasting models, management guidance, and other fundamental information on a company to derive an EPS estimate. For example, they might use a discounted cash flows model or DCF.



DCF analyses use future free cash flow projections and discount them. This is done using a required annual rate to arrive at present value estimates, which, in turn, is used to evaluate the potential for investment. If the value arrived at through DCF analysis is higher than the current cost of the investment, the opportunity could be a good one.



Calculated as:



DCF = [CF1/(1+r)1] + [CF2/(1+r)2] + ... + [CFn/(1+r)n]



CF = Cash Flow



r= discount rate (WACC)



Analysts may also rely on fundamental factors outlined in the management discussion and analysis (MD&A) section of a company’s financial reports. This section provides an overview of the previous year or quarter’s operations and how the company performed financially. It outlines the reasons behind certain aspects of growth or decline in the company’s income statement, balance sheet, and statement of cash flows. The MD&A discusses growth drivers, risks, and even pending litigation. Management also often uses this section to discuss the upcoming year by outlining future goals and approaches to new projects along with any changes in the executive suite and/or key hires.



Finally, analysts may take into account external factors, such as industry trends (e.g., large mergers, acquisitions, bankruptcies, etc.), the macroeconomic climate, pending U.S Federal Reserve meetings and potential interest rate hikes.
What Is Earnings Before Interest After Taxes (EBIAT)?  

Earnings before interest after taxes (EBIAT) is one of a number of financial measures that are used to evaluate a company's operating performance for a quarter or a year.



EBIAT measures a company's profitability without taking into account its capital structure, which is the combination of debt and stock issues that is reflected in debt to equity. EBIAT is a way to measure a company's ability to generate income from its operations for the period being examined while considering taxes.



EBIAT is the same as after-tax EBIT,





Key Takeaways:

Earnings before interest after taxes (EBIAT) measures a company's operating performance for a given period or over time.EBIAT omits the company's capital structure as a factor.EBIAT reveals how much cash a company has available to pay its creditors in the event of a liquidation.


   Understanding EBIAT  

EBIAT is not used in financial analysis as commonly as other measures, notably interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA). It is primarily monitored as a way of tracking how much cash a company has available to pay its debt obligations. If the company does not have much depreciation or amortization, EBIAT may be more closely watched.



EBIAT takes taxes into account as an ongoing expense that is beyond a company's control, particularly if the company is profitable. The calculation of EBIAT removes any tax benefits that might be gained from debt financing. Thus, the measure provides an accurate picture of the company's finances by eliminating elements that can potentially boost or reduce its financial strength.


   Example of EBIAT Calculation  

The calculation for EBIAT is straightforward. It is the company's EBIT x (1 - Tax rate). A company's EBIT is calculated in the following way:



EBIT = revenues - operating expenses + non-operating income



As an example, consider the following. Company X reports sales revenue of $1,000,000 for the year. Over the same period, the company reports a non-operating income of $30,000. The company's cost of goods sold is $200,000, while depreciation and amortization are reported at $75,000. Selling, general, and administrative expenses are $150,000 and other miscellaneous expenses are $20,000. The company also reports a one-time special expense of $50,000 for the year.



In this example, the EBIT would be calculated as:



EBIT = $1,000,000 - ($200,000 + $75,000 + $150,000 + $20,000 + $50,000) + $30,000 = $535,000



If the tax rate for Company X is 30%, then EBIAT is calculated as:



EBIAT = EBIT x (1 - tax rate) = $535,000 x (1 - 0.3) = $374,500



Some analysts would argue that the special expense should not be included in the calculation because it is not recurring. Whether to include it is at the discretion of the analyst doing the calculation.



The decision might depend on the magnitude of the special expense, but these types of line items can have significant implications. In this example, if the one-time special expense is excluded from the calculations, the following numbers would result:



EBIT without special expense = $585,000



EBIAT without special expense = $409,500



Without including the special expense, the EBIAT for Company X is 9.4% higher, which may have influence decision-makers.
What Is Earnings Before Interest and Taxes (EBIT)?  

Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) indicate a company's profitability. EBIT is calculated as revenue minus expenses excluding tax and interest. EBIT is also called operating earnings, operating profit, and profit before interest and taxes.





Key Takeaways

Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) measures a company's net income before income tax and interest expenses are deducted. EBIT is used to analyze the performance of a company's core operations. EBIT is also known as operating income.EBITDA equals earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization when calculating profitability. 












Investopedia / Daniel Fishel


   Understanding Earnings Before Interest and Taxes (EBIT)  

EBIT, or operating profit, measures the profit generated by a company's operations. By ignoring taxes and interest expenses, EBIT identifies a company's ability to generate enough earnings to be profitable, pay down debt, and fund ongoing operations.



EBIT is not a GAAP​ metric and not labeled on financial statements but may be reported as operating profits in a company's income statement. Operating expenses, including the cost of goods sold, are subtracted from total revenue or sales. A company may include non-operating income, such as income from investments.



A company may include interest income in EBIT depending on its sector. If the company extends credit to its customers as an integral part of its business, this interest income is a component of operating income. If interest income is derived from bond investments, it may be excluded.


   Formula and Calculation  
















EBIT 


=


 Revenue 


−


 COGS 


−


 Operating Expenses
















Or
















EBIT 


=


 Net Income 


+


 Interest 


+


 Taxes
















where:
















COGS 


=


 Cost of goods sold







\begin{aligned} &\text{EBIT}\ =\ \text{Revenue}\ -\ \text{COGS}\ -\ \text{Operating Expenses}\\ &\text{Or}\\ &\text{EBIT}\ =\ \text{Net Income}\ +\ \text{Interest}\ +\ \text{Taxes}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{COGS}\ =\ \text{Cost of goods sold} \end{aligned}


​EBIT = Revenue − COGS − Operating ExpensesOrEBIT = Net Income + Interest + Taxeswhere:COGS = Cost of goods sold​
The EBIT calculation combines a company's manufacturing cost, including raw materials, and total operating expenses, including employee wages. These items are subtracted from revenue:

Take the value for revenue or sales from the top of the income statement.
Subtract the cost of goods sold from revenue or sales, which gives you gross profit.
Subtract the operating expenses from the gross profit figure to achieve EBIT.


   What EBIT Tells Investors  

EBIT is useful in comparing the performances of similar companies in the same industry. EBIT is not a good measure across different sectors. For example, manufacturing companies have larger COGS than service-only companies. Companies in capital-intensive industries with significant fixed assets on their balance sheets are typically financed by debt with interest expenses.



Investors use EBIT to speculate how a business runs without taxes or capital structure costs. EBIT also levels the playing field when investors compare multiple companies with different tax rates.


   EBIT vs. EBITDA  

EBIT is a company's operating profit without interest expense and taxes. EBITDA or earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization uses EBIT without depreciation and amortization expenses when calculating profitability. EBITDA also excludes taxes and interest expenses on debt. But, there are differences between EBIT and EBITDA.



Companies with a significant amount of fixed assets can depreciate the expense of purchasing those assets over their useful life. Depreciation allows a company to spread the cost of an asset over the life of the asset and reduces profitability. For a company with a significant amount of fixed assets, depreciation impacts net income. EBITDA measures a company's profits by removing depreciation and reveals the profitability of a company's operational performance.









EBIT
EBITDA


Excludes Interest and Taxes
Excludes Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortization


Reported by companies with good operating profits
Used by companies with large investments in fixed assets and debt 


 Measures business profit, comparable to operating income
 Measures business profit, comparable to operating income





   Balance Sheet Example of EBIT  







Net sales
65,299


     Cost of products sold
32,909


Gross profit
32,390


     Selling, general, and administrative expense
18,949


Operating income
13,441


     Interest expense
579


     Interest income
182


     Other non-operating income, net
325


Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes
13,369


     Income taxes on continuing operations
3,342


Net earnings (loss) from discontinued operations
577


Net earnings
10,604


     Less: net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests
96


Net earnings attributable to Company X
10,508






Assume all data for Company X represents all figures in millions of USD. To calculate EBIT, subtract the cost of goods sold and the SG&A expense from the net sales. However, consider the other types of income that can be included in the EBIT calculation such as non-operating income and interest income:



EBIT=NS-COGS-SG&A+NOI+IIEBIT=$65,299-$32,909-$18,949+$325+$182EBIT=$13,948



Where:



NS=Net SalesSG&A=Selling, general, and administrative expensesNOI=Non-Operating IncomeII=Interest Income



A company can exclude one-time expenses. In this case, the company was continuing to operate in the country through subsidiaries. Due to capital controls in effect at the time, Company X took a one-time hit to remove foreign assets and liabilities from its balance sheet.



There is also an argument for excluding interest income and other non-operating income from the equation. For some companies, the amount of interest income they report might be negligible and can be omitted. Other companies, such as banks, generate a substantial amount of interest income from the investments they hold in bonds or debt instruments.



A second way to calculate Company X's EBIT is to work from the bottom up, beginning with net earnings. We ignore non-controlling interests, as we are only concerned with the company's operations and subtract net earnings from discontinued operations for the same reason. We then add income taxes and interest expenses back in to obtain the same EBIT we did through the top-down method:



EBIT=NE-NEDO+IT+IEEBIT=$10,604-$577+$3,342+$579EBIT=$13,948



Where:



NE=Net EarningsNEDO=Net Earnings from discontinued operationsIT=Income TaxesIE=Interest Expense




Why Is EBIT Important?
EBIT is a measure of a firm's operating efficiency. Because it does not account for indirect expenses such as taxes and interest due on debts, it shows how much the business makes from its core operations.




What Are the Limitations of EBIT?
Depreciation is included in the EBIT calculation and can lead to varying results when comparing companies in different industries. If an investor is comparing a company with a significant amount of fixed assets to a company that has few fixed assets, the depreciation expense reduces net income or profit. Also, companies with a large amount of debt will likely have a high amount of interest expense. EBIT removes the interest expense and thus inflates a company's earnings potential, particularly if the company has substantial debt.




How Is EBIT Calculated?
EBIT subtracts a company's cost of goods sold (COGS) and its operating expenses from its revenue. EBIT can also be calculated as operating revenue and non-operating income, less operating expenses.




What Is the Difference Between EBIT and EBITDA?
EBIT and EBITDA remove the cost of debt financing and taxes, while EBITDA adds depreciation and amortization expenses back into profit. Since depreciation is not captured in EBITDA, it can lead to profit distortions for companies with a sizable amount of fixed assets and substantial depreciation expenses. The greater the depreciation expense, the more it will boost EBITDA. 




How Do Analysts and Investors Use EBIT?
EBIT is used in several financial ratios in fundamental analysis. The interest coverage ratio divides EBIT by interest expense, and the EBIT/EV multiple compares a firm's earnings to its enterprise value.


   The Bottom Line  

Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) help measure a company's profitability and is calculated as revenue minus expenses excluding tax and interest. EBIT is also called operating profit. EBIT helps investors compare the performances of similar companies in the same industry, but it is not a good measure across different industries.
What Is Earnings Before Interest, Depreciation and Amortization (EBIDA)?  

Earnings before interest, depreciation and amortization (EBIDA) is a measure of the earnings of a company that adds the interest expense, depreciation, and amortization back to the net income number. However, it does include tax expenses. This measure is not as well known or used as often as its counterpart—earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA).





Key Takeaways

Earnings before interest, depreciation and amortization (EBIDA) is an earnings metric that adds interest and depreciation/amortization back to net income. EBIDA is said to be more conservative compared to its EBITDA counterpart, as the former is generally always lower. The EBIDA measure removes the assumption that the money paid in taxes could be used to pay down debt. However, EBIDA is not often used by analysts, who instead opt for either EBITDA or EBIT.  The components needed to calculate EBIDA can be found on a company's income statement.


   Understanding Earnings Before Interest, Depreciation and Amortization (EBIDA)  

There are various ways to calculate EBIDA, such as adding interest, depreciation, and amortization to net income. Another way to calculate EBIDA is to add depreciation and amortization to earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) and then subtract taxes.  



The metric is generally used to analyze companies in the same industry. It does not include the direct effects of financing, where taxes a company pays are a direct result of its use of debt.  



EBIDA can often be found as a metric for companies that do not pay taxes. This can include many nonprofits, such as non-for-profit hospitals or charity and religious organizations. In this case, it can be used interchangeably with EBITDA. 






All components needed to calculate EBIDA can be found on a company's income statement.


   Formula and Calculation for EBIDA  

EBIDA is calculated by deducting certain costs from EBIT or operating profit. The formula for EBIDA is:



EBITDA = EBIT + Depreciation + Amortization - Taxes



As an example, consider a company with the following financial information:



Total Revenue: $1,000,000Cost of Goods Sold: $200,000Selling and Administrative Expenses: $150,000Depreciation Expense: $50,000Amortization Expense: $25,000Interest Expense: $100,000Taxes: $35,000



EBIDA is calculated by first finding EBIT which is calculated as the difference between total net revenue and operating costs. In this example, we'll want to subtract the cost of goods sold, S&A expenses, depreciation expense, and amortization expenses from total revenue. In this example, EBIT (or operating profit) is $575,000.



However, EBIDA does not want to consider the non-cashflow items such as depreciation or amortization. Both are typically accounting entries that record an expense that does not tie to the cash outlay on the financial statements. Therefore, both depreciation and amortization need to be added back in.



Last, EBIDA also considers interest. Because interest is not an operating expense, it is not naturally included in operating profit. Therefore, companies will want to include this expense in as it is often avoidable and on a fixed schedule. In this example, the final EBIDA is calculated as:



EBIDA = $575,000 (EBIT) + $50,000 + 25,000 - $100,000 = $550,000


   Special Considerations   

Earnings before interest, depreciation, and amortization (EBIDA) is considered to be a more conservative valuation measure than EBITDA because it includes the tax expense in the earnings measure. The EBIDA measure removes the assumption that the money paid in taxes could be used to pay down debt, an assumption made in EBITDA. 



This debt payment assumption is made because interest payments are tax deductible, which, in turn, may lower the company's tax expense, giving it more money to service its debt. EBIDA, however, does not make the assumption that the tax expense can be lowered through the interest expense and, therefore, does not add it back to net income.






EBIDA is not regulated or required as part of GAAP reporting. Therefore, you probably won't see it explicitly calculated or reported as part of a company's financial statements.


   Criticism of EBIDA  

EBIDA as an earnings measure is very rarely calculated by companies and analysts. It serves little purpose, then, if EBIDA is not a standard measure to track, compare, analyze and forecast. Instead, EBITDA is widely accepted as one of the major earnings metrics. As well, EBIDA can be deceptive as it’ll still always be higher than net income, and in most cases, higher than EBIT as well. 



And like other popular metrics (such as EBITDA and EBIT), EBIDA isn’t regulated by Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), thus, what’s included is at the company’s discretion. Along with the criticism of EBIT and EBITDA, the EBIDA figure does not include other key information, such as working capital changes and capital expenditures (CapEx). 




What Is the Difference Between EBIDA and EBITDA?
EBIDA and EBITDA are both profitability measurements that compare a company's earnings after certain expenses have been considered. The only difference between the two is the treatment of taxes. EBIDA does not consider taxes, while EBITDA does deduct the amount of taxes owed. Therefore, EBIDA is often a higher calculation due to it consider one less corporate expense.




What Is EBIDA Used for?
EBIDA is used to gauge how profitable a company is when not considered some non-cashflow expenses. For instance, both depreciation and amortization are expensed over time not in line with when an initial investment and cash outlay may have occurred. Therefore, EBIDA gives an organization a better understanding of what its profitability is from a cash-generating standpoint.




What Is a Good EBIDA?
As a baseline, a company's EBIDA must be positive if it hopes to achieve positive cashflow. Even then, EBIDA adds back in depreciation and amortization, so it is possible for a company to have a positive EBIDA and yet still lose money each period. A company should strive to have an EBIDA high enough to sustain company growth as well as tracking what competitive company EBIDA's are to make sure their own is comparable.


   The Bottom Line  

EBIDA is a measure of company earnings that considers operating profit, depreciation, amortization, and interest. Companies use EBIDA to better understand their profitability as well as getting a gauge on how their earnings are after stripping away some financial accounting calculations that are not tied to cashflow. EBIDA is very similar to EBITDA, though the latter also incorporates taxes.
What Is EBITDA?  

EBITDA, or earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, is an alternate measure of profitability to net income. By stripping out the non-cash depreciation and amortization expense as well as taxes and debt costs dependent on the capital structure, EBITDA attempts to represent cash profit generated by the company’s operations.



EBITDA is not a metric recognized under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Some public companies report EBITDA in their quarterly results along with adjusted EBITDA figures typically excluding additional costs, such as stock-based compensation.



Increased focus on EBITDA by companies and investors has prompted claims that it overstates profitability. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requires listed companies reporting EBITDA figures to show how they were derived from net income, and it bars them from reporting EBITDA on a per-share basis.





Key Takeaways

Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) is a widely used measure of core corporate profitability.EBITDA is calculated by adding interest, tax, depreciation, and amortization expenses to net income.EBITDA lets investors assess corporate profitability net of expenses dependent on financing decisions, tax strategy, and discretionary depreciation schedules.Some, including Warren Buffett, call EBITDA meaningless because it omits capital costs.The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requires listed companies to reconcile any EBITDA figures they report with net income and bars them from reporting EBITDA per share.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   EBITDA Formulas and Calculation  

If a company doesn’t report EBITDA, it can be easily calculated from its financial statements.



The earnings (net income), tax, and interest figures are found on the income statement, while the depreciation and amortization figures are normally found in the notes to operating profit or on the cash flow statement. The usual shortcut for calculating EBITDA is to start with operating profit, also called earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT), then add back depreciation and amortization.



There are two distinct EBITDA formulas, one based on net income and the other on operating income. The respective EBITDA formulas are:



EBITDA = Net Income + Taxes + Interest Expense + Depreciation & Amortization



and



EBITDA = Operating Income + Depreciation & Amortization


   Understanding EBITDA  

EBITDA is net income (earnings) with interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization added back. EBITDA can be used to track and compare the underlying profitability of companies regardless of their depreciation assumptions or financing choices.



Like earnings, EBITDA is often used in valuation ratios, notably in combination with enterprise value as EV/EBITDA, also known as the enterprise multiple.



EBITDA is especially widely used in the analysis of asset-intensive industries with a lot of property, plant, and equipment and correspondingly high non-cash depreciation costs. In those sectors, the costs that EBITDA excludes may obscure changes in the underlying profitability—for example, as for energy pipelines.



Meanwhile, amortization is often used to expense the cost of software development or other intellectual property. That’s one reason why early-stage technology and research companies use EBITDA when discussing their performance.



Annual changes in tax liabilities and assets that must be reflected on the income statement may not relate to operational performance. Interest costs depend on debt levels, interest rates, and management preferences regarding debt vs. equity financing. Excluding all these items keeps the focus on the cash profits generated by the company’s business.



Of course, not everyone agrees. “References to EBITDA make us shudder,” Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK.A) CEO Warren Buffett has written. According to Buffett, depreciation is a real cost that can’t be ignored and EBITDA is not “a meaningful measure of performance.”


   Example of EBITDA  

A company generates $100 million in revenue and incurs $40 million in cost of goods sold and another $20 million in overhead. Depreciation and amortization expenses total $10 million, yielding an operating profit of $30 million. Interest expense is $5 million, leaving earnings before taxes of $25 million. With a 20% tax rate, net income equals $20 million after $5 million in taxes is subtracted from pretax income. If depreciation, amortization, interest, and taxes are added back to net income, EBITDA equals $40 million.









Net Income
$20,000,000


Depreciation Amortization
+$10,000,000


Interest Expense
+$5,000,000


Taxes
+$5,000,000


EBITDA
$40,000,000





   History of EBITDA  

EBITDA is the invention of one of the very few investors with a record rivaling Buffett’s: Liberty Media Chair John Malone. The cable industry pioneer came up with the metric in the 1970s to help sell lenders and investors on his leveraged growth strategy, which deployed debt and reinvested profits to minimize taxes.



During the 1980s, the investors and lenders involved in leveraged buyouts (LBOs) found EBITDA useful in estimating whether the targeted companies had the profitability to service the debt likely to be incurred in the acquisition. Since a buyout would likely entail a change in the capital structure and tax liabilities, it made sense to exclude the interest and tax expense from earnings. As non-cash costs, depreciation and amortization expense would not affect the company’s ability to service that debt, at least in the near term.



The LBO buyers tended to target companies with minimal or modest near-term capital spending plans, while their own need to secure financing for the acquisitions led them to focus on the EBITDA-to-interest coverage ratio, which weighs core operating profitability as represented by EBITDA against debt service costs.



EBITDA gained notoriety during the dotcom bubble, when some companies used it to exaggerate their financial performance.



The metric received more bad publicity in 2018 after WeWork Companies Inc., a provider of shared office space, filed a prospectus for its initial public offering (IPO) defining its “Community Adjusted EBITDA” as excluding general and administrative as well as sales and marketing expenses.


   Drawbacks of EBITDA  

Because EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure, the way it is calculated can vary from one company to the next. It is not uncommon for companies to emphasize EBITDA over net income because the former makes them look better.



An important red flag for investors is when a company that hasn’t reported EBITDA in the past starts to feature it prominently in results. This can happen when companies have borrowed heavily or are experiencing rising capital and development costs. In those cases, EBITDA may serve to distract investors from the company’s challenges.


  Ignores Costs of Assets  

A common misconception is that EBITDA represents cash earnings. However, unlike free cash flow, EBITDA ignores the cost of assets. One of the most common criticisms of EBITDA is that it assumes profitability is a function of sales and operations alone—almost as if the company’s assets and debt financing were a gift. To quote Buffett again, “Does management think the tooth fairy pays for capital expenditures?”


  What Defines Earnings?  

While subtracting interest payments, tax charges, depreciation, and amortization from earnings may seem simple enough, different companies use different earnings figures as the starting point for EBITDA. In other words, EBITDA is susceptible to the earnings accounting games found on the income statement. Even if we account for the distortions that result from excluding interest, taxation, depreciation, and amortization costs, the earnings figure in EBITDA may still prove unreliable.


  Obscures Company Valuation  

All the cost exclusions in EBITDA can make a company look much less expensive than it really is. When analysts look at stock price multiples of EBITDA rather than at bottom-line earnings, they produce lower multiples.



Consider the historical example of wireless telecom operator Sprint Nextel. On April 1, 2006, the stock was trading at 7.3 times its forecast EBITDA. That might sound like a low multiple, but it doesn’t mean that the company is a bargain. As a multiple of forecast operating profits, Sprint Nextel traded at a much-higher 20 times. The company traded at 48 times its estimated net income.



“There’s been some real sloppiness in accounting, and this move toward using adjusted EBITDA and adjusted earnings has produced some companies that I think are trading on valuations that are not supported by the real numbers,” hedge fund manager Daniel Loeb said in 2015.



Not much has changed on that front since then. Investors using solely EBITDA to assess a company’s value or results risk getting the wrong answer.


   EBITDA vs. EBT and EBIT  

Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT), as mentioned earlier, is a company’s net income excluding income tax expense and interest expense. EBIT is used to analyze the profitability of a company’s core operations. The following formula is used to calculate EBIT: 








EBIT


=


Net Income


+


Interest Expense


+


Tax Expense



\textit{EBIT} = \text{Net Income} + \text{Interest Expense} + \text{Tax Expense}


EBIT=Net Income+Interest Expense+Tax Expense



Since net income includes interest and tax expenses, to calculate EBIT, these deductions from net income must be reversed. EBIT is often mistaken for operating income since both exclude tax and interest costs. However, EBIT may include nonoperating income while operating income does not.



Earnings before tax (EBT) reflects how much of an operating profit has been realized before accounting for taxes, while EBIT excludes both taxes and interest payments. EBT is calculated by adding tax expense to the company’s net income.



By excluding tax liabilities, investors can use EBT to evaluate performance after eliminating a variable typically not within the company’s control. In the United States, this is most useful for comparing companies that might be subject to different state rates of federal tax rules.



EBT and EBIT do include the non-cash expenses of depreciation and amortization, which EBITDA leaves out.


   EBITDA vs. Operating Cash Flow  

Operating cash flow is a better measure of how much cash a company is generating because it adds non-cash charges (depreciation and amortization) back to net income but also includes changes in working capital, including receivables, payables, and inventory, that use or provide cash.



Working capital trends are an important consideration in determining how much cash a company is generating. If investors don’t include working capital changes in their analysis and rely solely on EBITDA, they may miss clues—for example, such as difficulties with receivables collection—that may impair cash flow.




How Do You Calculate Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortization (EBITDA)?
You can calculate earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) by using the information from a company’s income statement, cash flow statement, and balance sheet. The formula is as follows:EBITDA = Net Income + Interest + Taxes + Depreciation & Amortization




What Is a Good EBITDA?
EBITDA is a measure of a company’s profitability, so higher is generally better. From an investor’s point of view, a “good” EBITDA is one that provides additional perspective on a company’s performance without making anyone forget that the metric excludes cash outlays for interest and taxes as well as the eventual cost of replacing its tangible assets.




What Is Amortization in EBITDA?
As it relates to EBITDA, amortization is the gradual discounting of the book value of a company’s intangible assets. Amortization is reported on a company’s income statement. Intangible assets include intellectual property such as patents or trademarks as well as goodwill, the difference between the cost of past acquisitions and their fair market value when purchased.


   The Bottom Line  

EBITDA is a useful tool for comparing companies subject to disparate tax treatments and capital costs, or analyzing them in situations where these are likely to change. It also omits non-cash depreciation costs that may not accurately represent future capital spending requirements. At the same time, excluding some costs while including others has opened the door to the metric’s abuse by unscrupulous corporate managers. The best defense against such practices is to read the fine print reconciling the reported EBITDA to net income.



Correction—April 30, 2023. An earlier version of this article contained an arithmetic error in the calculation of EBITDA. The expected taxes were $5 million, not $4 million.
What Is Earnings Before Tax (EBT)?  

Earnings before tax (EBT) is a measure of financial performance. It reveals a company's earnings before taxes are deducted, is calculated by subtracting all expenses excluding taxes from revenue, and appears as a line item in the income statement.



EBT is sometimes also called pre-tax income, profit before tax, or income before income taxes.





Key Takeaways:

Earnings before tax (EBT) is a calculation of a firm's earnings before taxes are deducted.It is calculated by subtracting all expenses excluding taxes from revenue and can be found in a company's income statement.EBT is an important figure because it removes the effects of taxes when comparing businesses and can reflect a firm's performance when compared with industry peers.


   Understanding Earnings Before Tax (EBT)  

EBT is the money retained internally by a company before deducting tax expenses. It is an accounting measure of a company's operating and non-operating profits. 



All companies calculate EBT in the same manner and it is a "pure ratio," meaning it uses numbers found exclusively in the income statement. Analysts and accountants derive EBT through that specific financial statement, deducting the cost of goods sold (COGS), interest, depreciation, general and administrative expenses, and other operating expenses from gross sales.






EBT sometimes appears as income before income taxes or something similar and can be found just above the net income line item.


   Example of Earnings Before Tax (EBT)  

If a company sells 30 widgets for $1,000 a piece during January, its revenue for the period is $30,000. The company then assesses its COGs and subtracts that number from the $30,000 revenue. If it costs the company $100 to produce a single widget, its COGS for January is $3,000. This means that its gross revenue is $27,000 ($30,000 - $3,000 = $27,000).



After a company determines its gross revenue, it tallies all its operating costs together and subtracts that figure from the gross. The operating costs of a company may include any expenses related to its daily activities, such as salary and wages, rent, and other overhead expenses.



If the company is a technology company with substantial investments in human capital, it might have salaries of $10,000 a month and monthly rent of $1,000. Subtract that $11,000 in total overhead from its gross revenue as well as $1,000 of interest expenses, and you're left with EBT of $15,000.


   Earnings Before Tax (EBT) as a Tool for Comparison  

EBT is crucial because it removes the effects of taxes when comparing businesses. For example, while U.S.-based corporations face the same tax rates at the federal level, they may face different tax rates at the state level.



Since companies may pay different tax rates in different states, EBT allows investors to compare the profitability of similar companies in various tax jurisdictions. Further, EBT is used to calculate performance metrics, such as pretax profit margin.




How to Calculate Earnings Before Tax (EBT)?
EBT can be calculated in the following ways:Revenue – all operating expenses, including the cost of goods sold, selling, general and administrative expenses, and depreciation and amortizationEBIT – interest expenseNet income + taxes




Is Earnings Before Tax (EBT) the Same as Income Before Tax?
Yes. Income before tax or pretax income means the same thing as earnings before tax and these terms can be used interchangeably.




What Is the Difference Between Earnings Before Tax (EBT), EBIT, and EBITDA?
EBIT and EBITDA add additional layers of comparability by adding back more stuff. Whereas EBT just adds tax expenditures to net income, EBIT adds back interest expenses as well. And EBITDA goes another step further by also adding back depreciation and amortization. Why is that? Because interest and depreciation and amortization, like taxes, are expenses that don’t necessarily reflect a company’s ability to generate earnings from its operations.


   The Bottom Line  

EBT is a useful way to compare the profitability of similar companies operating in different tax jurisdictions. Tax rates do not reflect performance and can vary considerably across borders, making EBT a more effective metric than net income when seeking to gauge a company’s ability to generate earnings from its operations relative to its peers.
What Is an Earnings Call?  

An earnings call is a conference call between the management of a public company, analysts, investors, and the media to discuss the company’s financial results during a given reporting period, such as a quarter or a fiscal year. An earnings call is usually preceded by an earnings report, which contains summary information on financial performance for the period.





Key Takeaways

An earnings call is a conference call between a public company's management team and interested parties to discuss earnings for a specific period.The company discusses important aspects of its quarterly 10-Q report and annual 10-K report, particularly from the management discussion and analysis (MD&A) section.Analysts use information from the earnings call in their fundamental analysis of the company.Companies often publish an earnings report immediately before the earnings call.At the end of the earnings call, participants are allowed to ask questions.


   How an Earnings Call Works  

The term "earnings call" is a combination of a company's report of "earnings" (such as its net income or earnings per share) and the conference call to discuss results.






Earnings calls often begin with the moderator issuing a safe harbor statement, which advises that the call may include forward-looking statements.



The vast majority of listed companies host earnings calls to discuss their financial results although small companies with minimal investor interest may be the exception to the rule. Many companies provide a phone recording or presentation of the earnings call on their corporate websites for a number of weeks after the actual call, making it possible for investors who could not log in to the call to access this information.


   Earnings Call and SEC Forms 10Q and 10K  

During an earnings call, company management discusses the details of its SEC Form 10-Q (quarterly report) or 10-K (annual report). Federal securities laws mandate that publicly traded companies provide certain information in these forms, including detailed financial results, along with a more qualitative discussion.



The MD&A section (management discussion and analysis) usually provides the most comprehensive discussion of financial results and other performance metrics. It will generally dig into the reasons behind certain aspects of growth or decline on the company’s income statement, balance sheet, and statement of cash flows.



The MD&A will discuss particular drivers of growth, risks that investors face when purchasing shares or extending loans, and even pending lawsuits. Management also often uses the MD&A section to announce the upcoming year by outlining future goals and approaches to new projects and initiatives, along with any changes in the executive suite and/or key hires.


   Earnings Call and Fundamental Analysis  

Analysts use the information they learn from the earnings call in fundamental analysis of the company. Fundamental analysis begins with the company’s financial statements. Analysts will comb through these statements in addition to listening in on verbal cues that company management gives during the earnings call. Analysts may ask questions during an earnings call related to main concepts or even details in the footnotes that focus on inventory and "less accumulated depreciation" lines.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Earnings Calls  

Earnings calls can provide a wealth of information for investors, analysts, and members of the financial community. What's released during the earnings call can help analysts in their fundamental analysis of the company.



If allowed, some participants may present questions to be answered by the company's representative or executives during the call. The questions may yield valuable information that can enhance the company's image; however, some questions may be about topics management does not want in the forefront, thereby damaging the company.



With earnings calls, investors quickly receive the information they want without having to scour through dozens of report pages to find it. Also, they often schedule trades close to the earnings call, and how they trade is dependent on the information released.



Preparing for the earnings call can take time and command significant resources. This commitment may come at the expense of normal business operations. Also, once a company hosts an earnings call, it must continue to keep the investment community engaged. This means that it must continue these calls to prevent investors from thinking something is amiss.





Pros

Helps with fundamental analysis
Guides investors' decisions on trading
Allows participants to ask questions



Cons

Strains normal business operations
Q&A could produce unfavorable results
Must establish a regular cadence to prevent negative speculation





   Example of an Earnings Call  

On April 28, 2021, Apple (AAPL) held its 2nd Quarter (2021) earnings call with CEO Tim Cook, CFO Luca Maestri, other company executives, and analysts from other large companies, such as Morgan Stanley, Evercore, UBS, and Bank of America.



Tim Cook and Luca Maestri discussed the company's outlook on future revenues, income, expenses, and plans for its capital. Tim Cook highlighted the prior quarter's performance, noting a significant increase in revenues. He also boasted about iPhone and Mac's performance, as well as that of wearable products like the Apple Watch and services like Apple TV+.



Shifting the focus from its offerings, Tim Cook spoke about the company's commitment to the environment and its focus on the U.S. economy. In a quest for a net-zero carbon footprint by 2030, Apple plans to introduce approximately eight gigawatts of clean energy and continue supporting environmental projects globally. Regarding the nation's economy, it plans to invest more than $430 billion, which will result in approximately 20,000 new jobs.



Luca Maestri expanded on Cook's message by providing concrete figures. He celebrated their record-breaking performance of $89.6 billion in revenues recorded for Q2, a 54% increase compared to the same quarter of the prior year. In greater detail, he dissected revenues by segment, attributing $47.9 billion of the quarter's revenue to iPhone sales and $16.9 billion to services, such as App Store purchases, cloud services, Apple Music, and more.



Citing a remarkable performance, Maestri shared how Apple returned more than $23 billion—including $3.4 billion in dividends and $19 billion as open market repurchases of Apple stock—to shareholders during the March quarter.



Looking forward, the company expects the June quarter to not mirror the spectacular March quarter performance due to delayed launches and supply constraints. Gross margins are expected to be slightly below 50% and operating expenses are to be approximately $11 billion.



Analysts asked questions about reviving the existing customer base and attracting new customers, pricing, forward-looking initiatives, drivers for its high gross margin (42%), and the unexpectedly high performance in its Services division. In addition to the company's performance and outlook on revenues and expenses, they were asked how their plans for the U.S. economy would affect the company's expenses, to which Maestri reflected on the company's dedication to the goal, how much more revenues increased over its operations expenses in the prior quarter, and its plans to continue investing into the business.


   Earnings Call FAQs  
  What Is the Purpose of an Earnings Call?  

An earnings call allows a public company to discuss its past performance and future plans, as well as answer questions from analysts, investors, and media personnel.


  What Do You Listen to in an Earnings Call?  

Before listening to an earnings call, it is helpful to prepare to get a better understanding of what to listen for and what's particularly important to investors and analysts. Listen to the company's previous earnings call and read subsequent analysts' reports to gain insight into the company's performance.



Then, review the earnings press release, which is usually published before the call. This can provide valuable information, such as benchmarks and plans for dividends. As you listen to the earnings call, pay attention to the results, benchmarks, plans, and risks.



Afterward, you can analyze the call—management's tone, the results, and the answers to analysts' questions.


  How Long Is an Earnings Call?  

There is no prescribed time length for earnings calls. However, most last less than an hour. ﻿﻿


  Where Can I Find Earnings Calls?  

Earnings call recordings are typically published on the company's website for a specific time, such as two weeks. The transcripts are often available for a longer period. However, you can also find recordings and transcripts on investment websites. If an earnings call is not available, the next best alternative is to review the company's earnings report on its website or the Securities and Exchange Commissions's (SEC) website.


   The Bottom Line  

An earnings call is a conference call between company executives and the financial community. On this call, management reviews the company's performance for a specific period, as well as potential risks and future plans. At the end of the call, analysts and investors are generally welcome to ask questions, which can help in their fundamental analysis of the company.
What Is the Earnings Credit Rate (ECR)?  

The earnings credit rate (ECR) is a daily calculation of interest that a bank pays on customer deposits. The earnings credit rate is often correlated with the U.S. Treasury bill (T-bill) rate.



ECRs are rates that banks impute to offset service charges. Because depositors leave balances in non-interest-bearing accounts, the bank will apply an ECR on those balances and use that as a credit for services. For example, a corporate treasurer with a $250,000 collected balance receiving a 2% ECR would earn $5,000 to offset services. ECR is often credited automatically.





Key Takeaways

The earnings credit rate (ECR) is the imputed interest rate calculated by banks to account for the money they hold in non-interest-bearing accounts.ECRs are calculated on a daily basis and are often tied to the price of low-risk government bonds.ECRs are often used by banks to credit customers for services, reduce fees, or offer incentives for new depositors.


   Understanding the Earnings Credit Rate  

Banks may use ECRs to reduce fees customers pay for other banking services. These might include checking and savings accounts, debit and credit cards, business loans, additional merchant services (such as credit card processing and check collection, reconciliation, and reporting), and cash management services (e.g., payroll).



ECRs are paid on idle funds, which reduce bank service charges. Customers with larger deposits and balances tend to pay lower bank fees. ECRs are visible on most U.S. commercial account analyses and billing statements.



Banks may have great discretion in determining the earnings allowance. While the earnings credit rate can offset fees, depositors must note that they are only being charged for services they use, not in combination with others.


   History of the Earnings Credit Rate  

The notion of an earnings credit rate originated with Regulation Q (Reg Q), which prohibited banks from paying interest on deposits in checking accounts (set up for transactional purposes). Following the 1933 Glass-Steagall Act, many hoped this practice would limit loan sharking and other predatory actions.



The act subsequently supported consumers in releasing funds from checking accounts and shifting them to money market funds. Following Regulation Q, many banks decided to offer “soft dollar” credits on these non-interest-bearing accounts to offset banking services.






Financial instruments with a higher yield than ECRs include money-market funds or even relatively safe and liquid bond funds.



Typically, the ECR is applied against "collected" balances, not "ledger" or "floating" balances. Lockbox accounts and other depository accounts have float since it takes time for the deposits to clear. While these items are "floating," the funds are not available. Collected balances are what you have cleared and have available to transfer or invest.


   Special Considerations  

When money market funds yield near zero (e.g., during the 2008 financial crisis), deposit accounts offering ECRs can become more attractive to corporate treasurers. Yet, in times of rising rates, these treasurers may look for financial instruments with a higher yield than ECRs. These could include money-market funds or even relatively safe and liquid bond funds.




What Is the Difference Between ECR and Hard Interest?
Hard interest rates are generally higher than ECRs. One reason is that ECRs are not taxable, whereas hard interest rates are.




What Is the Difference Between Interest Earned and Interest Rate?
The interest rate is a percent of your total deposits, paid to you as interest earned.




What Is ECR for Banks?
The earned credit rate is an interest rate many banks give their institutional customers on their balances.


   The Bottom Line  

The earnings credit rate (ECR) is a daily interest calculation a bank pays on institutional customer deposits. It is usually calculated using the U.S. Treasury bill (T-bill) rate. The rate acts as an incentive for customers to deposit funds in non-interest-bearing accounts.
What Is an Earnings Estimate?  

An earnings estimate is an analyst's estimate for a company's future quarterly or annual earnings per share (EPS). Future earnings estimates are arguably the most important input when attempting to value a firm. By placing estimates on the earnings of a firm for certain periods (quarterly, annually, etc.), analysts can then use cash flow analysis to approximate fair value for a company, which in turn will give a target share price.



Investors often rely on earnings estimates to analyze different stocks and decide whether to buy or sell them.






An earnings estimate is an analyst's forecast for a public company's future quarterly or annual earnings per share (EPS).Investors rely heavily on earnings estimates to gauge a company's performance and make investment decisions about it.Most investors use a consensus earnings estimate, a forecast of a public company's projected earnings based on the combined estimates of all equity analysts that cover the stock.Whether a company meets, beats, or misses its earnings estimates can impact the price of the underlying stock, particularly in the short term.Earnings surprises occur when a company misses the consensus estimate either by earning more than expected or less.


   Understanding an Earnings Estimate  

Analysts use forecasting models, management guidance, and fundamental information on the company to derive an EPS estimate. Market participants rely heavily on earnings estimates to gauge a company's performance. So whether a company meets, beats, or misses its earnings estimates can impact the price of the underlying stock, particularly in the short term.



Analysts' earnings estimates are often aggregated to create consensus estimates. These are used as a benchmark against which the company's performance is evaluated. When you hear that a company has "missed estimates" or "beaten estimates," it's usually in reference to consensus estimates.



A few companies, such as Refinitiv and Zacks Investment Research, compile estimates and compute the average or consensus. Their forecasts can be found in stock quotations or financial publications such as The Wall Street Journal. Consensus numbers can also be found at a number of financial websites such as Yahoo! Finance, Bloomberg, Visible Alpha, Morningstar.com, and Google Finance.






Published consensus earnings estimates frequently are reflected in the stock price of a company. But sometimes they have an adverse effect. The shares of firms with high earnings estimates tend to falter as the companies' performance doesn't live up to the market's expectations—they can easily disappoint. Conversely, firms with low earnings estimates tend to perform better than anticipated—because of the low bar: They've nowhere to go but up.


   Example of an Earnings Estimate  

Earnings estimates are found by looking up individual stocks, Take, for example, Amazon (AMZN). Here is a roundup of its consensus earnings estimates, as of Jun. 7, 2021.












Amazon Earnings Per Share Estimates


Earnings Estimate
Current Qtr. (Jun 2021)
Next Qtr. (Sep 2021)
Current Year (2021)
Next Year (2022)




Avg. Estimate
12.27
12.97
55.88
72.3


Low Estimate
9.77
6.84
42.68
45.11


High Estimate
15.18
17.7
71.13
96.53


Year Ago EPS
10.3
12.37
41.83
55.88


No. of Analysts
36
36
46
46



Source: Yahoo! Finance


   Special Considerations  

Earnings surprises occur when a company misses the consensus estimate either by earning more than expected or less. If the firm manages to beat the earnings estimate, it is called a positive or upside surprise. If the firm fails to reach the earnings estimate, it is called a negative surprise.



Here is how Amazon's performance, vis-à-vis surprises, has worked out over 2020-2021 YTD:












Earnings History
6/29/2020
9/29/2020
12/30/2020
3/30/2021




EPS Est.
1.46
7.41
7.23
9.54


EPS Actual
10.3
12.37
14.09
15.79


Difference
8.84
4.96
6.86
6.25


Surprise %
605.50%
66.90%
94.90%
65.50%



Source: Yahoo! Finance



As with the earnings estimates themselves, earnings surprises affect stock prices. It’s been found that the stocks of firms with substantial positive earnings surprises tend to perform above average, and the stock prices with substantial negative earnings surprises perform below average.



As a result, companies often manage their earnings carefully to ensure that consensus estimates are not missed. Companies that consistently beat earnings estimates outperform the market. So some companies set expectations low by providing forward guidance that results in consensus estimates that are low relative to likely earnings. This results in the company consistently beating consensus estimates—and the earnings surprise becoming less and less surprising.
What Is Earnings Management?  

Earnings management is the use of accounting techniques to produce financial statements that present an overly positive view of a company's business activities and financial position. Many accounting rules and principles require that a company's management make judgments in following these principles. Earnings management takes advantage of how accounting rules are applied and creates financial statements that inflate or "smooth" earnings.





Key Takeaways

In accounting, earnings management is a method of employing accounting techniques to improve the appearance of the company's financial position.Companies use earnings management to present the appearance of consistent profits and to smooth fluctuations in earnings.One of the most popular ways to manipulate financial records is to use an accounting policy that generates higher short-term earnings.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding Earnings Management  

Earnings refers to a company's net income or profit for a certain specified period, such as a fiscal quarter or year. Companies use earnings management to smooth out fluctuations in earnings and present more consistent profits each month, quarter, or year.



Large fluctuations in income and expenses may be a normal part of a company's operations, but the changes may alarm investors who prefer to see stability and growth. A company's stock price often rises or falls after an earnings announcement, depending on whether the earnings meet or fall short of analysts' expectations.



Management can feel pressure to manage earnings by manipulating the company's accounting practices to meet financial expectations and keep the company's stock price up. Many executives receive bonuses based on earnings performance, and others may be eligible for stock options when the stock price increases.



Many forms of earnings manipulation are eventually uncovered either by a certified public accountant (CPA) firm performing an audit or through required Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) disclosures.





Important

The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requires that the financial statements of publicly traded companies be certified by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and has pressed charges against managers who engaged in fraudulent earnings management.


   Examples of Earnings Management  

One method of manipulation when managing earnings is to change to an accounting policy that generates higher earnings in the short term.



For example, assume a furniture retailer uses the last-in first-out (LIFO) method to account for the cost of inventory items sold. Under LIFO, the newest units purchased are considered to be sold first. Since inventory costs typically increase over time, the newer units are more expensive, and this creates a higher cost of sales and a lower profit.



If the retailer switches to the first-in first-out (FIFO) method of recognizing inventory costs, the company considers the older, less-expensive units to be sold first. FIFO creates a lower cost of goods sold expense and, therefore, higher profit, so the company can post higher net income in the current period.






Material changes to accounting policy must be disclosed in a company's financial statement.



Another form of earnings management is to change company policy so more costs are capitalized rather than expensed immediately. Capitalizing costs as assets delays the recognition of expenses and increases profits in the short term.



Assume, for example, company policy dictates that every item purchased under $5,000 is immediately expensed and costs over $5,000 may be capitalized as assets. If the firm changes the policy and starts to capitalize all items over $1,000, expenses decrease in the short-term and profits increase.


   Special Considerations  

A change in accounting policy must be explained to financial statement readers, and that disclosure is usually stated in a footnote to the financial statements. The disclosure is required because of the accounting principle of consistency.



Financial statements are consistent if the company uses the same accounting policies each year. This is important because it allows the financial statement user to easily identify variations when looking at the company's historical trends.



The fact that a change in policy must be explained and that all of a company's accounts are laid bare in its financial statement means that careful readers will likely discover the earnings management strategy. The problem is that not everyone has the time to go over reports in full or the knowledge to understand everything that is written.




Is Earnings Management Illegal?
Changing accounting techniques in itself is not illegal. However, if the SEC deems that a company is being creative to mislead investors and intentionally misrepresent its results then it may take action and issue fines.




Why Do Companies Engage in Earnings Management?
There are many reasons corporate managers engage in earnings management. These include higher bonuses, avoidance of falling below closely followed analyst forecasts, tax savings, boosting the value of the company, and creating a sense of stability.




What Are the Types of Earnings Management?
Several techniques are used to manage earnings. Examples include lowering capitalization limits, changing from the last-in first-out method of valuing inventory to the first-in first-out method, cutting nonmandatory expenses for short periods, or attributing regular business expenses to a one-off, nonrecurring event.


   The Bottom Line  

Investors should always do their homework before investing in a stock. That means analyzing the company’s financial report to get a true picture of how it is doing. Don’t just fixate on the headline numbers the company wants you to read or trust that analysts or somebody else will do the job on your behalf. Go through everything yourself and do it with a skeptical eye.
What Is the Earnings Multiplier?  

The earnings multiplier is a financial metric that frames a company's current stock price in terms of the company's earnings per share (EPS) of stock, that's simply computed as price per share/earnings per share. Also known as the price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio, the earnings multiplier can be used as a simplified valuation tool with which to compare the relative costliness of the stocks of similar companies. It can likewise help investors judge current stock prices against their historical prices on an earnings-relative basis.





Key Takeaways

The earnings multiplier frames a company's current stock price in terms of the company's earnings per share (EPS) of stock.This metric is computed as price per share/earnings per share. The earnings multiplier can help investors determine how expensive the current price of a stock is relative to the company's earnings per share of that stock.


   Understanding Earnings Multiplier  

The earnings multiplier can be a useful tool for determining how expensive the current price of a stock is relative to the company's earnings per share of that stock. This is an important relationship because the price of a stock is theoretically supposed to be a function of the anticipated future value of the issuing company and future cash flows resulting from ownership of that stock. If the price of a stock is historically expensive relative to the company's earnings, it may indicate that it's not an optimal time to purchase this equity because it's overly expensive. Furthermore, comparing earnings multipliers across similar companies can help illustrate how expensive various companies' stock prices are relative to one other.


   Example of the Earnings Multiplier  

As an example of a practical application of the earnings multiplier, consider fictitious company ABC. Let's assume this corporation has a current stock price of $50 per share and earnings per share (EPS) of $5. Under this set of circumstances, the earnings multiplier would be 50 dollars/5 dollars per year = 10 years. This means it would take 10 years to make back the stock price of $50 given the current EPS.



The multiplier can also be verbally expressed by saying, "Company ABC is trading at 10 times earnings," because the current price of $50 is 10x the $5 EPS. If 10 years ago, company ABC had a market price of $50 and EPS of $7, the multiplier would have been 7.14 years.






The earnings multiplier should only be used to value investments on a relative basis and shouldn't be used to gauge an absolute valuation of a stock.



The current price would be more expensive relative to current earnings than the price 10 years ago because, at that time, the stock was only trading at 7.14 times earnings instead of 10 times earnings it trades at currently. 



Comparing company ABC's earnings multiplier to other similar companies can also provide a simple gauge for judging how expensive a stock is relative to its earnings. If company XYZ also has an EPS of $5, but its current stock price is $65, it has an earnings multiplier of 13 years. Consequently, this stock may be deemed to be relatively more expensive than the stock of company ABC, which has a multiplier of only 10 years.
What Is Earnings Per Share (EPS)?  

Earnings per share (EPS) is calculated as a company's profit divided by the outstanding shares of its common stock. The resulting number serves as an indicator of a company's profitability. It is common for a company to report EPS that is adjusted for extraordinary items and potential share dilution.



The higher a company's EPS, the more profitable it is considered to be.





Key Takeaways


Earnings per share (EPS) is a company's net profit divided by the number of common shares it has outstanding.
EPS indicates how much money a company makes for each share of its stock and is a widely used metric for estimating corporate value.
A higher EPS indicates greater value because investors will pay more for a company's shares if they think the company has higher profits relative to its share price.
EPS can be arrived at in several forms, such as excluding extraordinary items or discontinued operations, or on a diluted basis.
Like other financial metrics, earnings per share is most valuable when compared against competitor metrics, companies of the same industry, or across a period of time.













Investopedia / Alex Dos Diaz


   Formula and Calculation for Earnings Per Share (EPS)  

Earnings per share value is calculated as net income (also known as profits or earnings) divided by available shares. A more refined calculation adjusts the numerator and denominator for shares that could be created through options, convertible debt, or warrants. The numerator of the equation is also more relevant if it is adjusted for continuing operations.








Earnings per Share


=




Net Income 


−


 Preferred Dividends



End-of-Period Common Shares Outstanding




\text{Earnings per Share}=\frac{\text{Net Income }-\text{ Preferred Dividends}}{\text{End-of-Period Common Shares Outstanding}}


Earnings per Share=End-of-Period Common Shares OutstandingNet Income − Preferred Dividends​



To calculate a company's EPS, the balance sheet and income statement are used to find the period-end number of common shares, dividends paid on preferred stock (if any), and the net income or earnings. It is more accurate to use a weighted average number of common shares over the reporting term because the number of shares can change over time.



Any stock dividends or splits that occur must be reflected in the calculation of the weighted average number of shares outstanding. Some data sources simplify the calculation by using the number of shares outstanding at the end of a period.





EPS for FAANG Stocks


   Example of EPS  

Say that the calculation of EPS for three companies at the end of the fiscal year was as follows:












EPS Example


Company
Net Income
Preferred Dividends
Weighted Common Shares
Basic EPS




Ford
$7.6B
$0
3.98B
$7.6/3.98 = $1.91


Bank of America
$18.23B
$1.61B
10.2B
$18.23-$1.61/10.2 = $1.63


NVIDIA
$1.67B
$0
0.541B
$1.67/0.541 = $3.09





   How Is EPS Used?  

Earnings per share is one of the most important metrics employed when determining a firm's profitability on an absolute basis. It is also a major component of calculating the price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio, where the E in P/E refers to EPS. By dividing a company's share price by its earnings per share, an investor can see the value of a stock in terms of how much the market is willing to pay for each dollar of earnings.



EPS is one of the many indicators you could use to pick stocks. If you have an interest in stock trading or investing, your next step is to choose a broker that works for your investment style.



Comparing EPS in absolute terms may not have much meaning to investors because ordinary shareholders do not have direct access to the earnings. Instead, investors will compare EPS with the share price of the stock to determine the value of earnings and how investors feel about future growth.


   Basic EPS vs. Diluted EPS  

The formula in the table above calculates the basic EPS of each of these select companies. Basic EPS does not factor in the dilutive effect of shares that could be issued by the company. When the capital structure of a company includes items such as stock options, warrants, or restricted stock units (RSU), these investments—if exercised—could increase the total number of shares outstanding in the market.



To better illustrate the effects of additional securities on per-share earnings, companies also report the diluted EPS, which assumes that all shares that could be outstanding have been issued.



For example, the total number of shares that could be created and issued from NVIDIA's convertible instruments for the fiscal year that ended in 2017 was 23 million. If this number is added to its total shares outstanding, its diluted weighted average shares outstanding will be 541 million + 23 million = 564 million shares. The company's diluted EPS is, therefore, $1.67 billion /.564 million = $2.96.



Sometimes an adjustment to the numerator is required when calculating a fully diluted EPS. For example, sometimes a lender will provide a loan that allows them to convert the debt into shares under certain conditions. The shares that would be created by the convertible debt should be included in the denominator of the diluted EPS calculation, but if that happened, then the company wouldn’t have paid interest on the debt. In this case, the company or analyst will add the interest paid on convertible debt back into the numerator of the EPS calculation so the result isn’t distorted.


   EPS Excluding Extraordinary Items  

Earnings per share can be distorted, both intentionally and unintentionally, by several factors. Analysts use variations of the basic EPS formula to avoid the most common ways that EPS may be inflated.



Imagine a company that owns two factories that make cellphone screens. The land on which one of the factories sits has become very valuable as new developments have surrounded it over the past few years. The company’s management team decides to sell the factory and build another one on less valuable land. This transaction creates a windfall profit for the firm.



Though this land sale has created real profits for the company and its shareholders, it is considered an “extraordinary item” because there is no reason to believe the company can repeat that transaction in the future. Shareholders might be misled if the windfall is included in the numerator of the EPS equation, so it is excluded.



A similar argument could be made if a company had an unusual loss—maybe the factory burned down—which would have temporarily decreased EPS and should be excluded for the same reason.


  The Formula for EPS Excluding Extraordinary Items Is:  






EPS


=




Net Income 


−


 Pref.Div. 



(


+


o


r


−


)



 Extraordinary Items



Weighted Average Common Shares




\text{EPS}=\frac{\text{Net Income }-\text{ Pref.Div. }\left(+or-\right)\text{ Extraordinary Items}}{\text{Weighted Average Common Shares}}


EPS=Weighted Average Common SharesNet Income − Pref.Div. (+or−) Extraordinary Items​


   EPS From Continuing Operations  

A company started the year with 500 stores and had an EPS of $5.00. However, assume that this company closed 100 stores over that period and ended the year with 400 stores. An analyst will want to know what the EPS was for just the 400 stores the company plans to continue with into the next period.



In this example, that could increase the EPS because the 100 closed stores were perhaps operating at a loss. By evaluating EPS from continuing operations, an analyst is better able to compare prior performance to current performance


   EPS and Capital  

An important aspect of EPS that is often ignored is the capital that is required to generate the earnings (net income) in the calculation. Two companies could generate the same EPS, but one could do so with fewer net assets; that company would be more efficient at using its capital to generate income and, all other things being equal, would be a "better" company in terms of efficiency. A metric that can be used to identify more efficient companies is the return on equity (ROE).


   EPS and Dividends  

Although EPS is widely used as a way to track a company’s performance, shareholders do not have direct access to those profits. A portion of the earnings may be distributed as a dividend, but all or a portion of the EPS can be retained by the company. Shareholders, through their representatives on the board of directors, would have to change the portion of EPS that is distributed through dividends to access more of those profits.


   EPS and Price-to-Earnings (P/E)  

Making a comparison of the P/E ratio within an industry group can be helpful, though in unexpected ways. Although it seems like a stock that costs more relative to its EPS when compared to peers might be “overvalued,” the opposite tends to be the rule. Regardless of its historical EPS, investors are willing to pay more for a stock if it is expected to grow or outperform its peers. In a bull market, it is normal for the stocks with the highest P/E ratios in a stock index to outperform the average of the other stocks in the index.




What Is a Good EPS?
What counts as a good EPS will depend on factors such as the recent performance of the company, the performance of its competitors, and the expectations of the analysts who follow the stock. Sometimes, a company might report growing EPS, but the stock might decline in price if analysts were expecting an even higher number.Likewise, a shrinking EPS figure might nonetheless lead to a price increase if analysts were expecting an even worse result. It is important to always judge EPS in relation to the company’s share price, such as by looking at the company’s P/E or earnings yield.




What Is the Difference Between Basic EPS and Diluted EPS?
Analysts will sometimes distinguish between basic and diluted EPS. Basic EPS consists of the company’s net income divided by its outstanding shares. It is the figure most commonly reported in the financial media and is also the simplest definition of EPS.Diluted EPS, on the other hand, will always be equal to or lower than basic EPS because it includes a more expansive definition of the company’s shares outstanding. Specifically, it incorporates shares that are not currently outstanding but could become outstanding if stock options and other convertible securities were to be exercised.




What Is the Difference Between EPS and Adjusted EPS?
Adjusted EPS is a type of EPS calculation in which the analyst makes adjustments to the numerator. Typically, this consists of adding or removing components of net income that are deemed to be non-recurring. For instance, if the company’s net income was increased based on a one-time sale of a building, the analyst might deduct the proceeds from that sale, thereby reducing net income. In that scenario, adjusted EPS would be lower than basic EPS.




What Are Some Limitations of EPS?
When looking at EPS to make an investment or trading decision, be aware of some possible drawbacks. For instance, a company can game its EPS by buying back stock, reducing the number of shares outstanding, and inflating the EPS number given the same level of earnings. Changes to accounting policy for reporting earnings can also change EPS. EPS also does not take into account the price of the share, so it has little to say about whether a company's stock is over or undervalued.




How Do You Calculate EPS Using Excel?
After collecting the necessary data, input the net income, preferred dividends, and number of common shares outstanding into three adjacent cells, say B3 through B5. In cell B6, input the formula "=B3-B4" to subtract preferred dividends from net income. In cell B7, input the formula "=B6/B5" to render the EPS ratio.


   The Bottom Line  

Earnings per share (EPS) is an important profitability measure used in relating a stock's price to a company's actual earnings. In general, higher EPS is better but one has to consider the number of shares outstanding, the potential for share dilution, and earnings trends over time. If a company misses or beats analysts' consensus expectations for EPS, their shares can either crash or rally, respectively.
What Is Earnings Power Value (EPV)?  

Earnings power value (EPV) is a technique for valuing stocks by making assumptions about the sustainability of current earnings and the cost of capital but not future growth. Earnings power value (EPV) is derived by dividing a company's adjusted earnings by its weighted average cost of capital (WACC).



While the formula is simple, there are a number of steps that need to be taken to calculate adjusted earnings and WACC. The final result is "EPV equity," which can be compared to market capitalization.





Key Takeaways

Earnings power value (EPV) is a stock valuation method that looks at a firm's current cost of capital.EPV ignores some important financial aspects, such as future growth and competitor assets.EPV is derived by dividing a company's adjusted earnings by its weighted average cost of capital.EPV equity can be compared to the current market capitalization of the company to determine whether the stock is fairly valued, overvalued, or undervalued.


   Formula and Calculation for Earnings Power Value (EPV)  

﻿















EPV


=




Adjusted  earnings




WACC


















where:
















E


P


V


=


earnings power value
















W


A


C


C


=


weighted average cost of capital 








\begin{aligned} &\text{EPV}=\frac{\text{Adjusted \ earnings}}{\text{WACC}} \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &EPV=\text{earnings power value}\\ &WACC=\text{weighted average cost of capital }\\ \end{aligned}


​EPV=WACCAdjusted  earnings​where:EPV=earnings power valueWACC=weighted average cost of capital ​﻿


  How to Calculate Earnings Power Value  

EPV starts with operating earnings, or EBIT (earnings before interest and tax), not adjusted at this point for one-time charges. Average EBIT margins over a business cycle of at least five years are multiplied by sustainable revenues to yield "normalized EBIT."



Normalized EBIT is then multiplied by (1 - average tax rate). The next step is to add back excess depreciation (after-tax basis at one-half average tax rate).



At this point, the analyst has a firm's "normalized" earnings figure. Adjustments now take place to account for unconsolidated subsidiaries, current restructuring charges, pricing power, and other material items. This adjusted earnings figure is then divided by the firm's weighted average cost of capital (WACC) to derive EPV business operations.



The final step to calculate the equity value of the firm is to add "excess net assets" (mainly cash plus the market value of real estate minus legacy costs) to EPV business operations and subtract the value of the firm's debt.



EPV equity can then be compared to the current market capitalization of the company to determine whether the stock is fairly valued, overvalued, or undervalued.






EPV is meant to be a representation of the current free cash flow capacity of the firm discounted at its cost of capital.


   What Does Earnings Power Value Tell You?  

Earnings power value is an analytical metric used to determine if a company's shares are over- or under-valued. The EPV formula is used to calculate the level of distributable cash flows that a company could reasonably sustain. Current earnings are used, rather than forecasts or discounted future earnings, since current earnings are reliable and knowable. It is because many other valuation metrics rely on assumptions or subjective evaluations that they are less reliable than EVP.



EPV was developed by Columbia University Professor Bruce Greenwald, a renowned financial economist and value investor who, through this valuation technique, tries to overcome the main challenge in discounted cash flow (DCF) analysis related to making assumptions about future growth, cost of capital, profit margins, and required investments.


   Limitations of Earnings Power Value  

Earnings power value is based on the idea the conditions surrounding business operations remain constant and in an ideal state. It does not account for any fluctuations, either internally or externally, that may affect the rate of production in any way.



These risks can stem from changes within the particular market in which the company operates, changes in associated regulatory requirements, or other unforeseen events that affect the flow of business in either a positive or negative way.
What Is a Quarterly Earnings Report?  

A quarterly earnings report is a filing made by public companies every three months to report on their recent financial performance. Quarterly earnings reports include items such as net income, earnings per share, earnings from continuing operations, and net sales. Stock analysts and investors use quarterly earnings reports as one way to gauge the financial health of the company and its prospects for the future.





Key Takeaways

Public companies file quarterly earnings reports to detail their latest performance.A quarterly earnings report contains information on the company's net income, earnings per share, earnings from continuing operations, net sales, and other data.Fundamental analysts look for trends in the data from the current and previous quarterly reports.When a company's quarterly earnings report fails to live up to expectations, its share price—and sometimes the entire market—can be affected.


   Understanding the Quarterly Earnings Report  

Quarterly earnings reports provide an update of three financial statements: the income statement, the balance sheet, and the cash flow statement. That information includes an overview of sales, expenses, and net income for the most recent quarter. The report may also provide a comparison to the previous year and possibly to the previous quarter.



Some quarterly earnings reports include a brief summary and analysis from the CEO or other company spokesperson.



The quarterly earnings report is generally backed up by the company's Form 10-Q, which companies must file with the Securities and Exchange Commission each quarter for the first three quarters of the year. (At the end of the fourth quarter, companies file a 10-K form, reporting annual performance.) The 10-Q is more comprehensive in nature than the quarterly earnings report and provides additional details. It is usually published a few weeks after the quarterly earnings report.



Fundamental analysts pay particular attention to the trend in ratios gleaned from quarterly earnings reports over time, rather than to individual data points from the latest report. One of the most important numbers for these analysts is earnings per share. Some companies post quarterly earnings reports going back several years on their websites.


   The Impact of Quarterly Earnings Reports  

The announcement of quarterly earnings for a stock, particularly for widely followed large capitalization stocks, can move the overall market. An individual stock's price can also fluctuate wildly on days when the company's quarterly earnings report is released.



For better or worse, a company's ability to beat earnings estimates projected by analysts or by the firm itself can be more important than its ability to grow earnings over the prior year. If it fails to meet or exceed the estimates published before the release, that may result in a sell-off of the stock.



In capital markets, it is all about market expectations since many believe expectations are already reflected in stock prices, following the efficient markets theory.




How Do You Know When a Company Will Release Its Quarterly Earnings Report?
You should be able to obtain the exact date and time for a quarterly earnings report announcement from the company's investor relations department.




What Is Fundamental Analysis?
Fundamental analysis attempts to determine the intrinsic value of a particular stock by studying both its unique financial data and trends in the larger economy. In that way, fundamental analysts hope to identify stocks that are trading at lower or higher prices than their actual worth.




What Is the Efficient Markets Theory?
The efficient markets theory—also known as the efficient markets hypothesis—maintains that all the information that is known about a particular stock at a given time is already reflected in its share price or will be in short order. For that reason, adherents of the theory say it is all but impossible for any investor to consistently outperform the market. Efficient markets theory is often cited as a major argument for investing through index funds.As Princeton economist Burton C. Malkiel, author of the influential book A Random Walk Down Wall Street wrote in a 2003 paper, "Many of us economists who believe in efficiency do so because we view markets as amazingly successful devices for reflecting new information rapidly and, for the most part, accurately."


   The Bottom Line  

Quarterly earnings reports are filings made by public companies every three months to provide data on their latest performance. Earnings reports are important to stock analysts, investors, and others as a way of assessing a company's current financial health and its performance over time. A disappointing earnings report can have serious consequences for the company's share price and, sometimes, for the entire market.
What Is Earnings Yield?  

The earnings yield refers to the earnings per share for the most recent 12-month period divided by the current market price per share. The earnings yield (the inverse of the P/E ratio) shows the percentage of a company's earnings per share. Earnings yield is used by many investment managers to determine optimal asset allocations and is used by investors to determine which assets seem underpriced or overpriced.





Key Takeaways

Earnings yield is the 12-month earnings divided by the share price.Earnings yield is the inverse of the P/E ratio.Earnings yield is one indication of value; a low ratio may indicate an overvalued stock, or a high value may indicate an undervalued stock.The growth prospects for a company are a critical consideration when using earnings yield. Stocks with high growth potential are typically valued higher and may have a low earnings yield even as their stock price rises.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   How Earnings Yield Works  

Money managers often compare the earnings yield of a broad market index (such as the S&P 500) to prevailing interest rates, such as the current 10-year Treasury yield. If the earnings yield is less than the rate of the 10-year Treasury yield, stocks may be considered overvalued. If the earnings yield is higher, stocks may be considered undervalued relative to bonds.



Economic theory suggests that investors in equities should demand an extra risk premium of several percentage points above prevailing risk-free rates (such as rates on Treasury bills) in their earnings yield to compensate them for the higher risk of owning stocks over bonds.


  Earnings Yield vs. P/E Ratio  

Earnings yield as an investment valuation metric is not as widely used as the P/E ratio. Earnings yield can be helpful when there is concern about the rate of return on investment. However, for equity investors, earning periodic investment income may be secondary to growing their investment values over time. This is why investors may refer to value-based investment metrics such as the P/E ratio more often than earnings yield when making stock investments. That said, the metrics provide the same information, just in a different way.


  Earnings Yield and Return Metric  

For investors looking to invest in stocks with stable dividend income, earnings yield can offer a direct look into the level of return dividend stocks may generate. In this case, earnings yield is more of a return metric, revealing how much an investment may earn for investors rather than a valuation metric showing how investors value the investment. However, a valuation metric like the P/E ratio can affect a return metric like earnings yield.



An overvalued investment can lower earnings yield, while an undervalued investment can raise earnings yield. This is because the higher the stock price goes without a comparable rise in earnings, the lower the earnings yield will drop. If the stock price falls but earnings stay the same or rise, the earnings yield will increase. Value investors seek the latter scenario.



The inverse relationship between earnings yield and the P/E ratio indicates that the more valuable an investment, the lower the earnings yield, and the less valuable an investment, the higher the earnings yield. However, investments with strong valuations and high P/E ratios might generate lower earnings over time and eventually boost their earnings yield, and this is what growth investors look for. On the other hand, investments with weak valuations and low P/E ratios may generate lower earnings over time and, in the end, drag down their earnings yield.


   Example of Earnings Yield  

Earnings yield can help investors assess whether or not they want to buy or sell a stock.



In April of 2019, Meta (META), formerly Facebook, was trading near $175 with 12-month earnings of $7.57, which produced an earnings yield of 4.3%. This was historically high as the yield had been 2.5% or lower before 2018. Between 2016 and 2017, the stock increased by more than 70%, while the earnings yield increased from approximately 1% to 2.5%.



The stock fell more than 40% off its 2018 high, while the earnings yield was near its highest historical level, about 3%. After the decline, the earnings yield continued to creep higher as the price fell, reaching over 5% in early 2019 when the stock started to bounce back higher.



The increased earnings yield may have played a role in driving the stock higher, mainly because investors expected earnings to improve going forward. A high earnings yield (relative to prior readings) didn't prevent the stock from seeing a significant decline in 2018.



Earnings yield may also be helpful in a stock that is older and has more consistent earnings. If growth is expected to be low for the foreseeable future, the earnings yield can be used to determine when it is a good time to buy the stock in its cycle. A higher than typical earnings yield can indicate the stock may be oversold and could be due for a bounce higher, assuming no negative news has occurred within the company.
What Is an Earnout?  

An earnout is a contractual provision stating that the seller of a business is to obtain additional compensation in the future if the business achieves certain financial goals, which are usually stated as a percentage of gross sales or earnings.



If an entrepreneur seeking to sell a business is asking for a price more than a buyer is willing to pay, an earnout provision can be utilized. In a simplified example, there could be a purchase price of $1 million plus 5% of gross sales over the next three years.





Key Takeaways

An earnout is a contractual provision stating that the seller of a business is to obtain future compensation if the business achieves certain financial goals.The differing expectations of a business between a seller and a buyer are usually resolved through an earnout.The earnout eliminates uncertainty for the buyer, as they only pay a portion of the sale price upfront and the remainder based on future performance. The seller receives the benefits of future growth.Key contractual considerations include earnout recipients, accounting assumptions used, and an agreed-upon time period.


   Understanding an Earnout  

Earnouts do not come with hard and fast rules. Instead, the payout level is dependent on a number of factors, including the size of the business. This can be used to bridge the gap between differing expectations from the buyers and sellers.



An earnout helps eliminate uncertainty for the buyer, as it is tied to future financial performance. The buyer pays a portion of the cost of the business upfront, and the remainder of the cost is dependent upon if future performance targets are met. The seller also receives the benefits of future growth for a period of time. Different financial targets such as net income or revenue may help determine earnouts.


   Structuring an Earnout  

There are a number of key considerations, aside from the cash compensation when structuring an earnout. This includes determining the crucial members of the organization and whether an earnout is extended to them.



The length of the contract and the executive's role with the company post-acquisition are two issues that also have to be negotiated. This is so because the performance of the company is tied to management as well as other key employees. If these employees leave then the company may not hit its financial targets.



The agreement should also specify the accounting assumptions that will be used going forward. Although a company can adhere to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), there are still judgments managers have to make that can affect results. For instance, assuming a higher level for returns and allowances will lower earnings.



A change in strategy, such as a decision to exit a business or invest in growth initiatives may depress current results. The seller should be aware of this in order to come up with an equitable solution.



The financial metrics used to determine the earnout must also be decided upon. Some metrics benefit the buyer while some benefit the seller. It is a good idea to use a combination of metrics, such as revenues and profit metrics.



There are legal and financial advisors that can assist with the entire process. The fee for advisors typically grows with the complexity of the transaction.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of an Earnout  

There are both advantages and disadvantages for the buyer and seller in an earnout. For the buyer, an advantage is having a longer period of time to pay for the business rather than all upfront. In addition, if earnings are not as high as expected, the buyer does not have to pay as much. For the seller, the advantage is the ability to spread out taxes over a few years, helping to reduce the tax impact of the sale.



A disadvantage to the buyer is that the seller may be involved in the business for a longer period of time, wanting to provide assistance to boost earnings or use their previous experience to run the business how they see fit. The disadvantage to the seller is that the future earnings are not high enough, therefore, they do not make as much from the sale of the business.


   Example of an Earnout  

ABC Company has $50 million in sales and $5 million in earnings. A potential buyer is willing to pay $250 million, but the current owner believes this undervalues the future growth prospects and asks for $500 million. To bridge the gap, the two parties can use an earnout. A compromise might be for an upfront cash payment of $250 million and an earnout of $250 million if sales and earnings reach $100 million within a three-year window or $100 million if sales only reach $70 million.﻿
What Is an Easement in Gross?  

An easement is a concept in real estate in which one party, either an individual or organization, gains the right to use another party’s property in a defined way. In some cases the holder of the easement pays the owner of the property for the right of usage; in others it is created by state or local law and attached to the property. Such an easement may exist in perpetuity and be transferred when the property is sold, encumbering the new owner.



An easement in gross, also known as a “personal easement,” attaches the right of use to a single individual or entity rather than to the property itself. It is a personal interest in another person’s land, usually limited in scope and duration. Its terms, including payment, are negotiated between the property owner and the easement holder. An easement in gross is often considered irrevocable for the life of the holder, but it is usually rendered void if the owner sells the property upon which the easement request was based.





Key Takeaways

An easement in gross is a type of easement that is attached to an individual or entity and usually cannot be transferred.An easement in gross is different from an easement appurtenant, which is attached to a piece of property.An easement in gross is often granted to utility companies, allowing them to install public infrastructure on private land.If land is sold without disclosing its easements, the buyer can seek legal remedies for any lost value.


   Understanding an Easement in Gross  

A typical property easement grants limited access to someone who is not the owner of a piece of real property. For example, a property owner might need an easement to use a neighbor’s driveway in order to access their own land.



An easement in gross is an easement that is granted to an individual or entity that generally cannot transfer the associated rights to any other person. If the holder of an easement transfers their property to someone else—through sale, inheritance, or any other mechanism—the current easement in gross may be considered void.



The new property owner can attempt to reach a new easement-in-gross agreement, but there is no guarantee that the right will be granted.


   Example of an Easement in Gross  

One familiar example of an easement in gross is a utility easement. These are legal agreements that allow utility companies to install and maintain infrastructure on private property. Under the conditions of the easement, a homeowner is restricted from digging or construction activities that could damage the utilities.



The party who benefits from an easement in gross does not have to own or reside in a neighboring property to be granted the associated rights. Additionally, the permissions granted in the easement may be as broad or specific as desired. When dealing with easements in gross, the property owner often has the most say regarding the limitations stated in the easement.






Sellers may be required to disclose any easements against their property to prospective buyers.


   Easement in Gross vs. Easement Appurtenant  

Easements in gross grant specific rights or privileges to someone other than the property owner. In contrast, an easement appurtenant grants rights to the owner of a nearby parcel of property. The property that benefits from the easement is known as the “dominant estate,” while the property that allows the easement is known as the “servient estate.”



An easement appurtenant is said to “run with the land,” meaning that when the easement holder sells their property, the easement rights transfer to the new property owner. Common examples would include an easement that allows access to a public park or one that lets a neighbor cross another’s land in order to reach their own property.



Some easements, especially those given to utility companies, carry with them significant interest and can ultimately be assigned to other parties. If a piece of real estate is purchased without the seller disclosing the nature of an easement, the buyer can seek legal remedies if the easement reduces the value of the property.




How Can I Terminate an Easement?
An easement can be terminated in eight ways: abandonment, merger, end of necessity, demolition, recording act, condemnation, adverse possession, and release. Perhaps the simplest way to end an easement is to persuade the beneficiary to release or abandon their rights to the easement.




What Is a Conservation Easement?
A conservation easement limits the usage of private land in order to protect natural resources, such as an endangered species or ecosystem. Conservation easements are always easements in gross, in that they are not attached to a neighboring piece of land.




Who Is the Holder of an Easement in Gross?
The holder of an easement in gross is the person or entity that benefits from that easement. This type of easement generally cannot be transferred, although there are exceptions. For example, in a merger between two utility companies, the new company may inherit any easements belonging to its predecessors.




What Is the Difference Between an Easement in Gross and an Easement Appurtenant?
The main difference is that an easement in gross is not attached to a specific piece of property. Instead, it is granted by the owner of a property to a single individual or entity. That grant usually ends when the owner sells the property. In contrast, an easement appurtenant, because it is attached to land, continues in perpetuity when either parcel of land is sold.


   The Bottom Line  

An easement is a real estate concept that allows one entity, whether an individual or organization, to use another entity’s property in a stated way. Some easements come attached to a specific piece of property, with the dominant property holding the easement over the servient property. They are often created by law, though they are not the same as a government’s use of eminent domain, which seizes ownership of property.



An easement in gross is not attached to a property. Instead, it is granted to a single person or organization through negotiation with a property owner, usually coming at an economic price. Usually of limited scope and duration, it is generally terminated if the owner sells their property, rather than encumbering the new owner.
What Is an Eavesdropping Attack?  

An eavesdropping attack, also known as a sniffing or snooping attack, is a theft of information as it is transmitted over a network by a computer, smartphone, or another connected device.



The attack takes advantage of unsecured network communications to access data as it is being sent or received by its user.





Key Takeaways

An eavesdropping attack is the theft of information from a smartphone or other device while the user is sending or receiving data over a network.Eavesdropping attacks can be prevented by using a personal firewall, keeping antivirus software updated, and using a virtual private network (VPN).Avoiding public Wi-Fi networks and adopting strong passwords are other ways to prevent eavesdropping attacks.



Eavesdropping is a deceptively mild term. The attackers are usually after sensitive financial and business information that can be sold for criminal purposes. There also is a booming trade in so-called spouseware, which allows people to eavesdrop on their loved ones by tracking their smartphone use.


   Understanding the Eavesdropping Attack  

An eavesdropping attack can be difficult to detect because the network transmissions will appear to be operating normally.



To be successful, an eavesdropping attack requires a weakened connection between a client and a server that the attacker can exploit to reroute network traffic. The attacker installs network monitoring software, the "sniffer," on a computer or a server to intercept data as it is transmitted.






Amazon Alexa and Google Home are vulnerable to eavesdropping, as are any internet-connected devices.



Any device in the network between the transmitting device and the receiving device is a point of weakness, as are the initial and terminal devices themselves.


  How to Foil an Eavesdropping Attack  

Eavesdropping attacks can be prevented by using a personal firewall, keeping antivirus software updated, and using a virtual private network (VPN).



Using a strong password and changing it frequently helps, too. And don't use the same password for every site you log onto.



Public Wi-Fi networks such as those that are available free in coffee shops and airports should be avoided, especially for sensitive transactions. They are easy targets for eavesdropping attacks. The passwords for these public networks are readily available, so an eavesdropper can simply log on and, using free software, monitor network activity and steal login credentials along with any data that other users transmit over the network.



If your Facebook or email account has been hacked lately, this is probably how it happened.


  Virtual Assistants Can Be Spied Upon  

Virtual assistants such as Amazon's Alexa and Google Home also are vulnerable to eavesdropping and their "always-on" mode makes them difficult to monitor for security.



Some reported incidents that the companies did the snooping themselves appear to have been accidents caused by mistakes in speech recognition.


  Avoid Dodgy Links  

Another way to limit your vulnerability to an attack is to make sure your phone is running the most recent version available of its operating system. However, its availability is up to the phone vendor, who may or may not be efficient about offering the update.



Even if you do all of the above, you have to be careful from day to day. Avoid clicking on dodgy links. The sites they link to may install malware on your device. Download apps only from the official Android or Apple stores.
What Is the EBIT/EV Multiple?  

The EBIT/EV multiple, shorthand for earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) divided by enterprise value (EV), is a financial ratio used to measure a company's "earnings yield."



The concept of the EBIT/EV multiple as a proxy for earnings yield and value was introduced by Joel Greenblatt, a noteworthy value investor and professor at Columbia Business School.





Key Takeaways

Investors and analysts use the EBIT/EV multiple to understand how earnings yield translates into a company's value.The higher the EBIT/EV multiple, the better for the investor as this indicates the company has low debt levels and higher amounts of cash.The EBIT/EV multiple allows investors to effectively compare earnings yields between companies with different debt levels and tax rates, among other things.


   Understanding the EBIT/EV Multiple  

Enterprise value (EV) is a measure used to value a company. Investors often use EV when comparing companies against one another for possible investment because EV provides a clearer picture of the real value of a company as opposed to simply considering market capitalization.



EV is an important component of several ratios investors can use to compare companies, such as the EBIT/EV multiple and EV/Sales. The EV of a business can be calculated using the following formula:  



​EV = Equity Market Capitalization + Total Debt − Cash (& Cash Equivalents)



The EV result shows how much money would be needed to buy the whole company. Some EV calculations include the addition of minority interest and preferred stock. However, for the vast majority of companies, minority interest and preferred stock in the capital structure is uncommon. Thus, EV is generally calculated without them.



EBIT/EV is supposed to be an earnings yield, so the higher the multiple, the better for an investor. There is an implicit bias toward companies with lower levels of debt and higher amounts of cash. A company with a leveraged balance sheet, all else being equal, is riskier than a company with less leverage. The company with modest amounts of debt and/or greater cash holdings will have a smaller EV, which would produce a higher earnings yield.


   Benefits of the EBIT/EV Multiple  

The EBIT/EV ratio can provide a better comparison than more conventional profitability ratios, such as return on equity (ROE) or return on invested capital (ROIC). While the EBIT/EV ratio is not commonly used, it does have a couple of key advantages in comparing companies.



First, employing EBIT as a measure of profitability, as opposed to net income (NI), eliminates the potentially distorting effects of differences in tax rates. Second, using EBIT/EV normalizes for effects of different capital structures.



Greenblatt states that EBIT "allows us to put companies with different levels of debt and different tax rates on an equal footing when comparing earnings yields." In his eyes, EV is more appropriate as the denominator because it takes into account the value of debt, as well as the market capitalization.






A downside to the EBIT/EV ratio is that it does not normalize for depreciation and amortization costs. Thus, there are still potential distorting effects when companies use different methods of accounting for fixed assets.


   Example of the EBIT/EV Multiple  

Say Company X has:



EBIT of $3.5 billion;A market capitalization of $40 billion;$7 billion in debt; and$1.5 billion in cash.



Company Z has:



EBIT of $1.3 billion;A market cap of $18 billion;$12 billion in debt; and$0.6 billion in cash.



EBIT/EV for Company X would be approximately 7.7%, while the earnings yield for Company Z would be approximately 4.4%. Company X's earnings yield is superior not only because it has greater EBIT, but also because it has lower leverage.
What Is EBITA?  

Earnings before interest, taxes, and amortization (EBITA) is a measure of company profitability used by investors. It is helpful for comparing one company to another in the same line of business. In some cases, it can also provide a more accurate view of a business's value.



Another similar measure adds depreciation to this list of factors. This is earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA). Some analysts use EBITA and EBITDA as ways to gauge a company's value, earning power, and efficiency.





Key Takeaways

Earnings before interest, taxes, and amortization (EBITA) removes the taxes owed, the interest on company debt, and the effects of amortization, which is the accounting practice of writing off the cost of an intangible asset over a period of years, from the earnings equation.This measure can provide a more accurate view of a company’s value.EBITA may also allow for easier comparison of one company to another in the same industry.EBITA can be misleading as a valuation method because it excludes certain expenses from earnings.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding EBITA  

EBITA is a metric taken from the financial data collected and reported by a company for a reporting period.



Some analysts and investors consider a company’s EBITA to be a more accurate representation of its actual earnings. This is because it removes the taxes owed, the interest on company debt, and the effects of amortization—the accounting practice of writing off the cost of an intangible asset over a period of years—from the equation.



It also is viewed by some as an indicator of the efficiency of a company’s operations.


   EBITA vs. EBITDA  

EBITA is not used as commonly as EBITDA, which adds depreciation to the calculation. Depreciation, in company accounting, is the recording of the reduced value of the company’s tangible assets over time. It’s a way of accounting for the wear and tear on assets such as equipment and facilities. Some companies, such as those in the utilities, manufacturing, and telecommunications industries, require significant expenditures on equipment and infrastructure, which are reflected in their books.



Both EBITA and EBITDA are used by some analysts for gauging a company’s operating profitability. Profitability is earnings generated throughout the ordinary course of doing business. The company’s profitability may be more apparent if capital expenditures and financing costs are subtracted from the official earnings total.






Some analysts consider both EBITA and EBITDA to be reliable indicators of a company’s cash flow. However, you should consider these metrics carefully, because they tend to overstate a business's cash flow.



However, some industries require significant investments in fixed assets. Therefore, using EBITA to evaluate companies in asset-heavy industries may distort a company’s profitability by ignoring the depreciation of those assets. In that case, EBITDA is deemed a more appropriate measure of operating profitability.



In other words, the EBITA measurement may be used instead of EBITDA for companies that do not have substantial capital expenditures that may skew the numbers.


   EBITA vs. GAAP Earnings  

Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) earnings are, as their name suggests, a common set of standards accepted and used by companies and their accounting departments. The use of GAAP earnings standardizes the financial reporting of publicly traded companies.



Many companies report GAAP earnings as well as non-GAAP earnings, which exclude one-time transactions. The rationale for reporting non-GAAP earnings is that substantial one-off costs, such as organizational restructuring, can distort the true picture of a company’s financial performance. Therefore, some do not consider them normal operational costs. Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT), EBITA, and EBITDA are examples of commonly used non-GAAP financial measures.






You should be careful to consider GAAP earnings when making investment decisions, because non-GAAP earnings are somewhat misleading.


   Calculating EBITA  

To calculate a company’s EBITA, you must first determine the company’s earnings before tax (EBT). This figure appears in the company’s income statements and other investor relations materials, and you add any interest and amortization costs. So the formula is:



EBITA = EBT + Interest Expense + Amortization Expense




What Is the Difference Between EBITA and EBITDA?
Each of these is a measure of profitability used by analysts: earnings before interest, taxes, and amortization (EBITA) and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA). Both are used to gauge a company’s profitability, efficiency, or value. EBITDA is the more commonly used measure because it adds depreciation—the accounting practice of recording the reduced value of a company’s tangible assets over time—to the list of factors.




Where Can You Find a Company’s EBITA?
If a company doesn’t provide this metric (there’s no legal requirement to do so), you find it by looking at the firm’s financial statements. Look for the earnings, tax, and interest figures on the income statement; the amortization is usually found in the notes to operating profit or on the cash flow statement. A shortcut to calculating EBITA is to start with operating profit, also called earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT), then add back amortization.




How Is EBITA Useful?
EBITA is considered by some to be a reliable indicator of how efficient a company’s operations are. Some analysts use it to gauge profitability, although doing so can be misleading because of the excluded expenses.


   The Bottom Line  

Earnings before interest, taxes, and amortization (EBITA) is one way analysts measure a company's efficiency, profitability, and value. While it can be a useful tool, it isn't always an accurate reflection of a business's financial situation.



Most companies use earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA), which is a more accurate financial picture—but it also has the same limitations in that it hides true profitability by excluding these expenses.
What Is EBITDA Margin?  

The EBITDA margin is a measure of a company's operating profit as a percentage of its revenue. The acronym EBITDA stands for earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization. Knowing the EBITDA margin allows for a comparison of one company's real performance to others in its industry.





Key Takeaways

The EBITDA margin is a performance metric that measures a company's profitability from operations.EBITDA is an earnings measure that focuses on the essentials of a business: its operating profitability and cash flows.The EBITDA margin is calculated by dividing EBITDA by revenue.












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   Understanding EBITDA Margin  

No analyst or investor would argue that a company's interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization are irrelevant. Nevertheless, EBITDA strips all of those numbers out in order to focus on the essentials: operating profitability and cash flow.



EBITDA margin = (earnings before interest and tax + depreciation + amortization) / total revenue



That makes it easy to compare the relative profitability of two or more companies of different sizes in the same industry. The numbers otherwise could be skewed by short-term issues or disguised by accounting maneuvers.



Calculating a company's EBITDA margin is helpful when gauging the effectiveness of a company's cost-cutting efforts. The higher a company's EBITDA margin is, the lower its operating expenses are in relation to total revenue.



So, a firm with revenue totaling $125,000 and EBITDA of $15,000 would have an EBITDA margin of $15,000/$125,000 = 12%.


   Alternatives to EBITDA Margin  

There are a couple of alternatives to EBITDA that are used by investors and analysts seeking to understand a company's profitability:



EBITA: Earnings before interest, taxes, and amortization
EBIT: Earnings before interest and taxes



In any case, the formula for determining operating profitability is a simple one. EBITDA (or EBITA or EBIT) divided by total revenue equals operating profitability.


   Special Considerations  

EBITDA is known as a non-GAAP financial figure, meaning it does not follow generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).



The GAAP standards are critical in ensuring the overall accuracy of financial reporting, but they can be superfluous to financial analysts and investors. That is, interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization are not part of a company's operating costs and are therefore not associated with the day-to-day operation of a business or its relative success.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of EBITDA Margin  

The EBITDA margin tells an investor or analyst how much operating cash is generated for each dollar of revenue earned. That number can then be used as a comparative benchmark.



For example, a small company might earn $125,000 in annual revenue and have an EBITDA margin of 12%, while a larger company might earn $1,250,000 in annual revenue but have an EBITDA margin of 5%. Clearly, the smaller company operates more efficiently and maximizes its profitability. The larger company, on the other hand, probably focused on volume growth to increase its bottom line.






A good EBITDA margin is a higher number in comparison with its peers in the same industry or sector.


  Pitfalls of EBITDA  

The exclusion of debt has its drawbacks when measuring the performance of a company. Some companies highlight their EBITDA margins as a way to draw attention away from their debt and enhance the perception of their financial performance.



Companies with high debt levels should not be measured using the EBITDA margin. Large interest payments should be included in the financial analysis of such companies.



In addition, the EBITDA margin is usually higher than the profit margin. Companies with low profitability will emphasize EBITDA margin as their measurement for success.



Finally, companies using the EBITDA figure are allowed more discretion in calculating it because EBITDA isn't regulated by GAAP. In other words, a firm can skew the figure in its favor.




Why Is EBITDA Margin Useful?
EBITDA focuses on the essentials, namely operating profitability and cash flow. This makes it easy to compare the relative profitability of two or more companies of different sizes in the same industry. The numbers otherwise could be skewed by short-term issues or disguised by accounting maneuvers.Calculating a company's EBITDA margin is helpful when gauging the effectiveness of a company's cost-cutting efforts. If a company has a higher EBITDA margin, that means that its operating expenses are lower in relation to total revenue.




Is EBITDA Margin the Same As Operating Margin?
The EBITDA margin and operating profit margin are two different metrics that measure a company's profitability. Operating margin measures a company's profit after paying variable costs, but before paying interest or tax. EBITDA, on the other hand, measures a company's overall profitability, but it may not take into account the cost of capital investments such as property and equipment.




What Are the Advantages of EBITDA Margin?
The EBITDA margin measures a company's operating profit as a percentage of its revenue, revealing how much operating cash is generated for each dollar of revenue earned. Therefore, a good EBITDA margin is a relatively high number in comparison with its peers. The simplicity of using one metric as a comparative benchmark can be extremely advantageous to an investor.




What Are the Disadvantages of EBITDA Margin?
The EBITDA margin excludes debt in its calculation of a company's performance. Some companies highlight their EBITDA margins as a way to draw attention away from their debt and enhance the perception of their financial performance. The EBITDA margin is usually higher than profit margin, which encourages companies with low profitability to feature it when emphasizing their success. Also, EBITDA isn't regulated by GAAP.
What Is EBITDA/EV Multiple?  

The EBITDA/EV multiple is a financial valuation ratio that measures a company's return on investment (ROI). The EBITDA/EV ratio may be preferred over other measures of return because it is normalized for differences between companies. Using EBITDA normalizes for differences in capital structure, taxation, and fixed asset accounting. The enterprise value (EV) also normalizes for differences in a company's capital structure.





Key Takeaways

The EBITDA/EV multiple is a financial valuation ratio used to calculate a company's ROI.EBITDA/EV ratio is more complicated than other return measures, but it often used because it provides a normalized ratio for measuring the operations of different companies.The enterprise value (EV) ratio harmonizes within the capital structure of a company. 


   Understanding EBITDA/EV Multiple  

EBITDA/EV is a comparables analysis method that seeks to value similar companies using the same financial metrics. While computing the EBITDA/EV ratio is more complicated than other return measures, it is sometimes preferred because it provides a normalized ratio for comparing the operations of different companies.






If a more conventional ratio (such as net income to equity) were used, comparisons would be skewed by each company's accounting policies.



An analyst using EBITDA/EV assumes that a particular ratio is applicable and can be applied to various companies operating within the same line of business or industry. In other words, the theory is that when firms are comparable, this multiples approach can be used to determine the value of one firm based on the value of another. Thus, EBITDA/EV is commonly used to compare companies within an industry.



This is a modification of the ratio of operating and non-operating profits compared to the market value of a company's equity plus its debt. Since EBITDA is often considered a proxy for cash income, the metric is used as a measure of a company's cash return on investment.


   EBITDA and EV  

"EBITDA" is an acronym that stands for earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization. However, the measure is not based on the U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).



In April 2016, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) stated non-GAAP measures such as EBITDA would be a focal point for the agency to ensure that companies are not presenting results in a misleading manner. If EBITDA is shown, the SEC advises that the company should reconcile the metric to net income. This should assist investors by providing information on how the figure is calculated.



Enterprise value (EV) is a measure of the economic value of a company. It is frequently used to determine the value of the business if it is acquired. It is considered to be a better valuation measure than market capitalization, since the latter factors in only a business' equity without regard to the debt.



EV is calculated as the market capitalization plus debt, preferred stock, and minority interest, minus cash. An entity purchasing a company would have to pay the value of the equity and assume the debt, but the money would reduce the price paid.


   Example of EBITDA/EV  

The EBITDA/EV uses the cash flows of a business to evaluate the value of a company. When the EBITDA is compared to enterprise revenue, an investor can tell if a business has cash flow issues. A business with a healthy cash flow will have a high value. Banks also look at EBITDA since it is an indicator of the capacity of the enterprise to pay the debt service and repay the principal of any new debt incurred.



For example, Wal-Mart Inc.'s EBITDA for the fiscal year 2020, was $31.55 billion. Its enterprise value was $445.77 billion during this period. This works out to an EBITDA/EV multiple of 0.07077 or 7.08%.



The reciprocate multiple EV/EBITDA is used to measure the value of a company.
What Is the EBITDA-to-Interest Coverage Ratio?  

The EBITDA-to-interest coverage ratio is a financial ratio that is used to assess a company's financial durability by examining whether it is at least profitable enough to pay off its interest expenses using its pre-tax income. Specifically it looks to see what proportion of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA), can be used for this purpose.



The EBITDA-to-interest coverage ratio is also known simply as as EBITDA coverage. The main difference between EBITDA coverage and the interest coverage ratio, is that the latter uses earnings before income and taxes (EBIT), rather than the more encompassing EBITDA.






The EBITDA-to-interest coverage ratio, or EBITDA coverage, is used to see how easily a firm can pay the interest on its outstanding debt.The formula divides earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization by total interest payments, making it more inclusive than the standard interest coverage ratio.A higher coverage ratio is better, although the ideal ratio may vary by industry.


   The Formula For the EBITDA-to-Interest Coverage Ratio Is:  










Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021


   Understanding the EBITDA-to-Interest Coverage Ratio  

The EBITDA-to-interest coverage ratio was first widely used by leveraged buyout bankers, who would use it as a first screen to determine whether a newly restructured company would be able to service its short-term debt obligations. A ratio greater than 1 indicates that the company has more than enough interest coverage to pay off its interest expenses.



While the ratio is a very easy way to assess whether a company can cover its interest-related expenses, the applications of this ratio are also limited by the relevance of using EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortization) as a proxy for various financial figures. For example, suppose that a company has an EBITDA-to-interest coverage ratio of 1.25; this may not mean that it would be able to cover its interest payments since the company might need to spend a large portion of its profits on replacing old equipment. Because EBITDA does not account for depreciation-related expenses, a ratio of 1.25 might not be a definitive indicator of financial durability.


   EBITDA-To-Interest Coverage Ratio Calculation and Example  

There are two formulas used for the EBITDA-to-interest coverage ratio that differ slightly. Analysts may differ in opinion on which one is more applicable to use depending on the company being analyzed. They are as follows:



EBITDA-to-interest coverage = (EBITDA + lease payments) / (loan interest payments + lease payments)



and



Interest coverage ratio, which is EBIT / interest expenses.



As an example, consider the following. A company reports sales revenue of $1,000,000. Salary expenses are reported as $250,000, while utilities are reported as $20,000. Lease payments are $100,000. The company also reports depreciation of $50,000 and interest expenses of $120,000. To calculate the EBITDA-to-interest coverage ratio, first an analyst needs to calculate the EBITDA. EBITDA is calculated by taking the company's EBIT (earnings before interest and tax) and adding back the depreciation and amortization amounts.



In the above example, the company's EBIT and EBITDA are calculated as:



EBIT = revenues - operating expenses - depreciation = $1,000,000 - ($250,000 + $20,000 + $100,000) - $50,000 = $580,000EBITDA = EBIT + depreciation + amortization = $580,000 + $50,000 + $0 = $630,000



Next, using the formula for EBITDA-to-interest coverage that includes the lease payments term, the company's EBITDA-to-interest coverage ratio is:



EBITDA-to-interest coverage = ($630,000 + $100,000) / ($120,000 + $100,000)= $730,000 / $220,000= 3.32
What Is the EBITDA-To-Sales Ratio?  

The EBITDA-to-sales ratio, also known as EBITDA margin, is a financial metric used to assess a company's profitability by comparing its gross revenue with its earnings. More specifically, since EBITDA itself is derived in part from revenue, this metric indicates the percentage of a company's earnings remaining after operating expenses. A higher value indicates the company is able to produce earnings more efficiently by keeping costs low.





Key Takeaways

The EBITDA-to-sales ratio (EBITDA margin) shows how much cash a company generates for each dollar of sales revenue, before accounting for interest, taxes, and amortization & depreciation.A low EBITDA-to-sales ratio suggests that a company may have problems with profitability as well as its cash flow, while a high result may indicate a solid business with stable earnings.Because the ratio excludes the impact of debt interest, highly leveraged companies should not be evaluated using this metric.


   The Formula for the EBITDA-To-Sales Ratio  

﻿




E


B


I


T


D


A



margin


=




E


B


I


T


D


A




Net sales





EBITDA\;\text{margin} = \frac{EBITDA}{\text{Net sales}}


EBITDAmargin=Net salesEBITDA​﻿


   How to Calculate the EBITDA-To-Sales Ratio  

EBITDA is an abbreviation for "earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization." Thus, it is calculated adding back these line items to net income, and so does include operating expenses such as the cost of goods sold (COGS) and selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) expenses.



The EBITDA/sales ratio is therefore able to focus on the impact of direct operating costs while excluding the effects of the company's capital structure, tax exposure, and accounting quirks.


   What Does the EBITDA-To-Sales Ratio Tell You?  

The purpose of EBITDA is to report earnings while exlcluding certain expenses that are considered uncontrollable. EBITDA provides deeper insight into the operational efficiency of an organization based on only those costs management can control.



The EBITDA-to-sales ratio divides the EBITDA by a company's net sales. A ratio equal to 1 implies that a company has no interest, taxes, depreciation, or amortization. It is thus virtually guaranteed that the calculation of a company’s EBITDA-to-sales ratio will be less than 1 because of the deduction of those expenses in the numerator. As a result, the EBITDA-to-sales ratio should not return a value greater than 1. A value greater than 1 is an indicator of a miscalculation. Still, a good EBITDA-to-sales ratio is a number higher in comparison with its peers.



EBITDA-to-sales can be construed as a liquidity measurement, because a comparison is being made between the total revenue earned and the residual net income before certain expenses, showing the total amount a company can expect to receive after operating costs have been paid. Although this is not a true sense of the concept of liquidity, the calculation still reveals how easy it is for a business to cover and pay for certain costs.


   Limitations of the EBITDA-To-Sales Ratio  

The EBITDA-to-sales ratio for a given company is most useful when comparing to similar-sized companies within the same industry to one another. Because different companies have different cost structures across industries, the EBITDA-to-sales ratio calculations won't tell much during comparison if used to compare against industries with different cost structures.



For example, certain industries may experience more favorable taxation due to tax credits and deductions. These industries incur lower income tax figures and higher EBITDA-to-sales ratio calculations.



Another aspect related to the usefulness of the EBITDA-to-sales ratio concerns the use of depreciation and amortization methods. Because companies can select different depreciation methods, EBITDA-to-sales ratio calculations eliminate the depreciation expense from consideration to improve consistency between companies. Finally, the exclusion of debt interest has its drawbacks when measuring the performance of a company. Companies with high debt levels should not be measured using the EBITDA-to-sale ratio since large and regular interest payments should be included in the financial analysis of such companies.
What Is EBITDAR?  

Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, and restructuring or rent costs (EBITDAR) is a non-GAAP tool used to measure a company's financial performance. Although EBITDAR does not appear on a company's income statement, it can be calculated using information from the income statement. 





Key Takeaways

EBITDAR is a profitability measure like EBIT or EBITDA that adjusts net income to be internally analyzed by removing certain costs. It's better for casinos, restaurants, and other companies that have non-recurring or highly variable rent or restructuring costs as these expenses are taken out of net income.EBITDAR gives analysts a view of a company's core operational performance apart from expenses unrelated to operations, such as taxes, rent, restructuring costs, and non-cash expenses.Using EBITDAR allows for easier comparison of one firm to another by minimizing unique variables that don't relate directly to operations.EBITDAR may unjustly remove controllable costs which may not hold management accountable for some costs incurred.


   Formula and Calculation of EBITDAR  

EBITDAR can be calculated in several different ways. Because EBITDA is a heavily used financial calculation, the most common way is to add restructuring and/or rental costs to EBITDA:


















EBITDAR


=


EBITDA + Restructuring/Rental Costs
















where:
















EBITDA = Earnings before interest, taxes,
















depreciation, and amortization







\begin{aligned} &\text{EBITDAR}=\text{EBITDA + Restructuring/Rental Costs}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{EBITDA = Earnings before interest, taxes,}\\ &\text{depreciation, and amortization}\\ \end{aligned}


​EBITDAR=EBITDA + Restructuring/Rental Costswhere:EBITDA = Earnings before interest, taxes,depreciation, and amortization​


  Earnings  

Different approaches to calculating EBITDAR may start with different earnings or income calculations. In general, the earnings portion refers to net income. This is the all-inclusive, non-restrictive earnings that a company has made in a given period that is not yet adjusted for any items below.


  Interest Expense  

Interest expense is the cost incurred for securing a debt or line of credit with an outstanding balance. A company may choose to eliminate this cost because it may not be controllable by management. In addition, it may be strategically advantageous to have opted to finance something using low-cost debt instead of relying on internal capital or higher-cost methods such as issuing equity shares.


  Tax Expense  

Tax expense is the cost imposed on a company for local, state, or federal taxes. Because a company often does not have a say in its tax assessment, it may be removed for internal analysis. However, companies also have the discretion of forming favorable legal structures to help minimize its tax assessment. Some may argue that if a company fails to strategically plan its future tax liability, it should be held accountable for the taxes assessed when analyzing financial results internally.


  Depreciation  

Depreciation is the allocated cost of a tangible asset over its useful life. Though a company may outright purchase an asset, it will likely not receive the benefit of the asset all at one time but instead over a period of time. Although there are different depreciation rates and methods, a company may have much control over how depreciation impacts their net income calculation. In addition, companies may not care to see such non-cash transactions when analyzing results.


  Amortization  

In a very similar manner as depreciation, amortization is the spreading of costs over the useful life of an asset. However, amortization occurs for intangible assets such as trademarks, patents, and goodwill. The benefit of these items is received over time; however, the worth theoretically deteriorates over time and they become less valuable as they are used or competitors make them obsolete. Just like depreciation, amortization is a non-cash, uncontrollable expense that management may not care to analyze.


  Restructuring or Rental Costs  

The element that makes EBITDAR different from other calculations is the elimination of restructuring costs or rental costs. These costs may not yield financial results comparable with other companies or comparable for a single company across a period of time. For certain industries and sectors, it may be more favorable to remove these costs when analyzing financial results for reasons discussed below.






EBITDAR is an internal analysis tool only. Though it may be discussed within the notes to a company's financial statements, companies are not required to publicly disclose their EBITDAR calculations.


   What Does EBITDAR Tell You?  

EBITDAR is a metric used primarily to analyze the financial health and performance of companies that have gone through restructuring within the past year. It is also useful for businesses such as restaurants or casinos that have unique rent costs. It exists alongside earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) and earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA).



Using EBITDAR in analysis helps to reduce variability from one company's expenses to the next, in order to focus only on costs that are related to operations. This is helpful when comparing peer companies within the same industry.



EBITDAR doesn't take rent or restructuring into account because this metric seeks to measure a company's core operational performance. For example, imagine an investor comparing two restaurants, one in New York City with expensive rent and the other in Omaha with significantly lower rent. To compare those two businesses effectively, the investor excludes their rent costs, as well as interest, tax, depreciation, and amortization.



Similarly, an investor may exclude restructuring costs when a company has gone through a restructuring and has incurred costs from the plan. These costs, which are included on the income statement, are usually seen as nonrecurring and are excluded from EBITDAR to give a better idea of the company's ongoing operations.



EBITDAR is most often calculated for internal purposes only, as it is not a required financial reporting metric for public companies. A firm might calculate it each quarter to isolate and review operational expenses without having to consider fluctuating costs such as restructuring, or rent costs that may differ within various subsidiaries of the company or among the firm's competitors.


   EBITDAR Example  

Imagine Company XYZ earns $1 million in a year in revenue and incurs $400,000 in total operating expenses. Included in the firm's $400,000 operating expenses is depreciation of $15,000, amortization of $10,000, and rent of $50,000. The company also incurred $20,000 of interest expenses and $10,000 of tax expenses for the period.



Company XYZ can begin by calculating its net income. This is the total amount of revenue less the total amount of expenses.



Net Income = $1,000,000 Revenue - $400,000 Operating Expenses - $20,000 Interest - $10,000 Taxes = $570,000



Company XYZ can then back into EBIT by adding back interest and taxes.



EBIT = $570,000 Net Income + $20,000 Interest + $10,000 Taxes = $600,000.



Company XYZ can further back out additional costs to arrive at EBITDA.



EBITDA = $600,000 EBIT + $15,000 Depreciation + $10,000 Amortization = $625,000



Last, Company XYZ can reincorporate rental costs to arrive at EBITDAR.



EBITDAR = $625,000 EBITDA + $50,000 Rental Expenses = $675,000






EBITDAR can be calculated many different ways. For example, if you know EBITDA, you can simply add restructuring or rent costs. As another example, if you know EBIT, just add back depreciation, amortization, and restructuring/rent costs. The ultimate calculation across all different methods should be the same.


   Advantages and Limitations of EBITDAR  
  Advantages of EBITDAR  

EBITDAR is more useful than other financial calculations in several different situations:



EBITDAR removes one-time restructuring costs. As these expenses are often non-recurring, it is less useful to analyze earnings after these one-time costs.EBITDAR makes certain companies more comparable. By removing rental costs, it becomes more reasonable to compare the operations of different companies without discrepancies arising based on whether the company owns its assets or not.EBITDAR adjusts for geographical regions with higher costs. Some locations may have higher rent costs based on the nature of that area.EBITDAR communicates a more controllable earnings calculation. Management can more strategically approach earnings calculations when less controllable elements have been removed.


  Limitations of EBITDAR  

However, there are several cases where EBITDAR is not as advantageous to use:



EBITDAR manipulates what may be a recurring reorganizational process. Larger companies may restructure their entity very frequently. As this may be an inherent cost of the company, some may argue it is unfair to eliminate this naturally-occurring cost.
EBITDAR may eliminate controllable costs. An organization must still be held responsible for inefficiency if it continually must undergo restructuring. Because EBITDAR "hides" the restructuring cost, management may not take full ownership of this semi-controllable aspect of operations when only looking at this calculation.
EBITDAR does not reflect potentially higher selling prices. The argument is to eliminate rent costs as some areas incur higher expenses; however, these areas may also be subject to geographical pricing and more likely to charge higher rates for their products and incur greater income (which is not adjusted for).
EBITDAR attempts to align reporting to cash activity but may be misleading. A company must still incur cash outlays for interest, taxes, restructurings, and rental costs. By removing these amounts, a company may be misled regarding how much cash it actually goes through in a period.




EBITDAR

Advantages

Strives to exclude non-recurring or one-time expenses
Disregards different capital structures and attempts to compare companies based on their operations only
Adjusts for how different regions may have different costs
Aims to include only the major expenses that management has the ability to control



Disadvantages

Removes restructuring costs which may be recurring and part of the normal course of operations for a large company
May remove controllable costs that management should be held accountable for
Does not reduce income for higher cost areas although expenses are adjusted for
May mislead management regarding cash flow needs





   EBITDAR vs. Other Financial Calculations  
  EBITDAR vs. EBITDA  

The difference between EBITDA and EBITDAR is that the latter excludes restructuring or rent costs. However, both metrics are utilized to compare the financial performance of two companies without considering their taxes or non-cash expenses such as depreciation and amortization.



A company may choose EBITDAR over EBITDA if it has undergone a recent reorganization that will make it more difficult to analyze year-over-year results. In the year of the reorganization, expenses will likely be higher due to conversions, training, and temporary inefficiencies.



A majority of companies are able to stick with EBITDA because (1) they have not recently undergone a reorganization, (2) they wish to still include the cost of that reorganization as part of their earnings analysis since it may have been controllable, and (3) it is a much more widely accepted earnings calculation.


  EBITDAR vs. EBIT  

The difference between EBITDAR and EBIT is more substantial. EBIT adjusts earnings for interest and taxes, but it still includes the costs allocated to a good over its useful life. EBIT also includes restructuring and rental costs.



The argument for EBIT is that the cost of depreciable assets is still a controllable cost. Although management may not have full discretion on how long as asset is depreciated for or what its depreciable is, the company still decided to incur the cost of acquiring the asset to use as part of operations. For this reason, depreciation is included in EBIT.



The same concept applies to intangible assets that must be amortized. A company can argue it receives a financial benefit (i.e. greater brand awareness, better product recognition) from goodwill; therefore, because it is recognizing the financial benefit, it must also consider the financial cost (amortization).



Potentially the largest difference between EBITDAR and EBIT relates to cashflow. EBITDAR removes many more non-cash expenses and one-time expenses; therefore, EBITDAR may be a more accurate reflection on what a company will need in terms of cash on a recurring basis. On the other hand, EBIT is usually a greater reflection of what a company's accounting profit will be.


  EBITDAR vs. Net Income  

The greatest difference lies between EBITDAR and net income. Net income is the ultimate bottom line. It includes all company-wide expenses whether they require cash outlay or not. Net income does not distinguish between different types of costs; all expenses are included.



Net income is heavily dictated by accounting rules and non-cash transactions. Though the financial industry heavily relies on analyzing and comparing net income across companies, there are simply too many variables impact this single calculation to make it truly useful for analysis. This idea stemmed the calculations above; instead of relying on a single, broad number, analysists could choose the aspects of a company to look into by forming different metrics such as EBITDAR.




How Do You Calculate EBITDAR?
EBITDAR is calculated by subtracting interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, and restructuring/rent costs from earnings. Because EBIT and EBITDA are commonly used measurements as well, a company can calculate EBITDAR by manipulating either of those two measurements. For example, a company can simply subtract depreciation, amortization, and restructuring/rent costs from EBIT.




What Is a Good EBITDAR Margin?
It is not uncommon to see an EBITDA ratio exceed 20%. The general rule of thumb is a strong EBITDA measurement is 10%; because EBITDAR may not be substantially different from EBITDA for many companies, a good EBITDAR margin will be at least double-digits.




What Companies Use EBITDAR?
Instead of using EBITDA, EBITDAR is used by companies that recently underwent restructuring. The goal of EBITDAR is to eliminate these one-time restructuring costs to allow management an easier opportunity to analyze financial performance. EBITDAR is also used by casinos, restaurants, or other businesses that typically pay rent. Companies that want to strictly look at financial performance relating to more controllable aspects of operations may choose to internally eliminate rent for better analysis.




What Is the Difference Between EBIT, EBITDA, and EBITDAR?
EBIT, EBITDA, and EBITDAR are all calculations that adjust a company's earnings to eliminate less controllable aspects of the company's operations. The difference between the three is the amount of items that are taken out of earnings for analysis purposes. Calculations with longer acronyms will have more items adjusted out of earnings.


   The Bottom Line  

EBITDAR is a variation of the very commonly used EBIT or EBITDA calculations. In addition to adjusting income for interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, EBITDAR removes (1) restructuring costs and (2) rent payments. This calculation is used by companies that want a better sense of financial performance who recently underwent a one-time restructuring or do not own a majority of their assets.
What Was eCash?  

eCash was a digital-based system that facilitated the transfer of funds anonymously. A pioneer in cryptocurrency, its goal was to secure the privacy of individuals that use the Internet for micropayments. eCash was created in 1990 by Dr. David Chaum under his company, DigiCash (founded the previous year).



Though there was interest in the platform from large banks, eCash never took off and DigiCash filed for bankruptcy in 1998. DigiCash, along with its eCash patents, was eventually sold off. In 2018, Chaum launched a new startup focused on cryptography.





Key Takeaways


eCash was an electronic platform created to transfer funds anonymously. It was a pioneer in cryptocurrency.
eCash was created by Dr. David Chaum and implemented via his company, DigiCash.
eCash worked on the premise of blind signatures where message content is invisible before signing, resulting in no user being able to link withdrawal and spend transactions.
Despite the initial interest and bringing large banks on board to use the system, eCash never fully took off and DigiCash filed for bankruptcy in 1998.
Chaum launched a new startup in 2018 focused on cryptography.



   Understanding eCash  

The idea for eCash came from Dr. David Chaum in the early 1980s. He was ahead of his time in thinking about privacy concerns in the age of the Internet. And not only did he advocate for privacy but he took it a few steps further in creating an anonymous based payment system for the digital age. This was even before the Internet was available for public use. In 1989, Chaum created the company DigiCash, to realize his idea for eCash the following year.



The core concept behind eCash was blind signatures. A blind signature is a type of digital signature in which the message's content is invisible prior to signing. In this manner, no user is able to create a link between withdrawal and spend transactions. The money used in the system was called "CyberBucks."


   eCash's Rise and Fall  

DigiCash gained a lot of traction in the mid 1990s when Internet companies were taking off. The company signed deals with many banks that intended to use the platform. These banks included Deutsche Bank (DB), Credit Suisse (CS), and other banks across the globe. Microsoft was also interested in eCash for Windows 95 but the two companies couldn't agree to a deal.



The banks that decided to implement eCash started testing the platform but never sold it as a viable product to its customers. The only bank that actually used the platform was Mark Twain Bank in St. Louis, Missouri. The service was free to buyers, but sellers had to pay a transaction fee. Mark Twain Bank had signed approximately 5,000 customers, including just more than 300 merchants, but the platform never gained traction. According to Chaum, "As the Web grew, the average level of sophistication of users dropped. It was hard to explain the importance of privacy to them."



DigiCash eventually filed for bankruptcy in 1998. It was sold off to eCash Technologies along with its patents for eCash. The trademark for the name is now with Due Inc. Due was founded in 2015 and is ranked one of the top 10 e-wallets in the world.


   eCash and Online Security Today  

Despite the failure of DigiCash and with it eCash, online security is an ongoing issue in the digital realm to this day. Financial information, stored on a computer or electronic device, or the Internet more generally (e.g., the cloud) is vulnerable to hackers. Cryptocurrencies are extremely popular today and owe their foundations to eCash. The most popular cryptocurrency is Bitcoin, which was created in 2009 by an anonymous creator and had a better luck gaining traction quickly. Overall, many consider Dr. Chaum to be the father of digital currency.



In 2018, Chaum launched Elixxir. Its purpose is to create a cryptography network focused on communication anonymity, that is controlled by users to protect their information, as opposed to the current setup, where companies have detailed access to consumer information and use it for targeting ads to generate revenue.




Was eCash the First Cryptocurrency?
Yes. It was created by David Chaum's company DigiCash in 1990.




What Are Other Cryptoccurencies Before Bitcoin?
eCash, B-money, Bit Gold, and Hashcash are other early cryptocurrencies that were very influential in Bitcoin's creation.




What Was the First Blockchain?
Although David Chaum first proposed a blockchain-like protocol in his 1982 dissertation Computer Systems Established, Maintained, and Trusted by Mutually Suspicious Groups, the first decentralized blockchain was conceptualized by Satoshi Nakamoto in 2008.


   The Bottom Line  

eCash was conceived by David Chaum as an electronic cash system in 1982. In 1990, it was realized through his company Digicash. eCash was implemented as micropayment system at Mark Twain bank in Saint Louis, Missouri, from 1995 to 1998, when the company filed fro bankruptcy. The company, along with its patents for eCash, was sold off to eCash Technologies.
What Is an Eclectic Paradigm?  

An eclectic paradigm, also known as the ownership, location, internalization (OLI) model or OLI framework, is a three-tiered evaluation framework that companies can follow when attempting to determine if it is beneficial to pursue foreign direct investment (FDI). This paradigm assumes that institutions will avoid transactions in the open market if the cost of completing the same actions internally, or in-house, carries a lower price. It is based on internalization theory and was first expounded upon in 1979 by the scholar John H. Dunning.





Key Takeaways

An eclectic paradigm is also known as the ownership, location, internalization (OLI) model or OLI framework.The eclectic paradigm takes a holistic approach to examining entire relationships and interactions of the various components of a business.The goal is to determine if a particular approach provides greater overall value than other available national or international choices for the production of goods or services.


   Understanding Eclectic Paradigms  

The eclectic paradigm takes a holistic approach to examining entire relationships and interactions of the various components of a business. The paradigm provides a strategy for operation expansion through FDI. The goal is to determine if a particular approach provides greater overall value than other available national or international choices for the production of goods or services.



Since businesses seek the most cost-effective options while still maintaining quality, they may use the eclectic paradigm to evaluate any scenario which exhibits potential.


   Three Key Factors of the Eclectic Paradigm  

For FDI to be beneficial, the following advantages must be evident:



The first consideration, ownership advantages, include proprietary information and various ownership rights of a company. These may consist of branding, copyright, trademark or patent rights, plus the use and management of internally-available skills. Ownership advantages are typically considered to be intangible. They include that which gives a competitive advantage, such as a reputation for reliability.



Location advantage is the second necessary good. Companies must assess whether there is a comparative advantage to performing specific functions within a particular nation. Often fixed in nature, these considerations apply to the availability and costs of resources, when functioning in one location compared to another. Location advantage can refer to natural or created resources, but either way, they are generally immobile, requiring a partnership with a foreign investor in that location to be utilized to full advantage.



Finally, internalization advantages, signal when it is better for an organization to produce a particular product in-house, versus contracting with a third-party. At times, it may be more cost-effective for an organization to operate from a different market location while they keep doing the work in-house. If the business decides to outsource the production, it may require negotiating partnerships with local producers. However, taking an outsourcing route only makes financial sense if the contracting company can meet the organization’s needs and quality standards at a lower cost. Perhaps the foreign company can also offer a greater degree of local market knowledge, or even more skilled employees who can make a better product.


   Real World Example  

According to Research Methodology, an independent research and analyst firm, the eclectic paradigm were applied by Shanghai Vision Technology Company, in its decision to export its 3D printers and other innovative tech offerings. While their choice strongly considered the disadvantage of higher tariffs and transportation costs, their internationalization strategy ultimately allowed them to flourish in new markets.
What Is an ECN Broker?  

An ECN broker is a financial intermediary that uses electronic communications networks (ECNs) to give clients direct access to other participants in equity and currency markets. Because an ECN broker consolidates price quotations from several market participants, it can generally offer its clients tighter bid/ask spreads than would be otherwise available to them.



An ECN broker only matches trades between other market participants; it cannot trade against the client. ECN spreads are often narrower than those used by conventional brokers, but ECN brokers still charge clients a fixed commission per transaction.





Key Takeaways

ECN brokers facilitate transactions that occur on electronic communication networks (ECNs).These brokers help clients directly access stock or currency markets on ECNs that they would not have access to otherwise.While they offer transparency and deep liquidity, ECN systems are more expensive as compared to traditional exchanges.


   Understanding ECN Brokers  

The use of an ECN allows investors a way to trade outside traditional trading hours, providing a mechanism for those who either can’t be actively involved during normal market times or who prefer the flexibility offered by wider availability. It also avoids the wider spreads that are common when using a traditional broker and provides overall lower commissions and fees.



For those concerned about privacy, the ECN can provide a level of anonymity to those who desire it. This can be particularly attractive to investors interested in making larger transactions.



ECN brokers are non-dealing desk brokers, meaning that they do not pass on order flow to market makers. Instead, they match participants in a trade electronically and pass the orders to liquidity providers.



An ECN broker facilitates trades for interested investors across the ECN. Working with brokers of this nature often results in lower fees as well as additional trading time availability because of how the ECN functions.


   Understanding the Electronic Communications Network  

The ECN provides an electronic system for buyers and sellers to come together for the purpose of executing trades. It does this by providing access to information regarding orders being entered, and by facilitating the execution of these orders. The network is designed to match buy and sell orders currently present in the exchange. When specific order information is not available, it provides prices reflecting the highest bid and lowest ask listed on the open market.


   Benefits of Electronic Communications Networks  

Price feed transparency is also a byproduct that many consider a benefit because of how the information is transmitted. All ECN brokers have access to the exact same feed and trade at the precise price that is provided. A certain amount of price history is also readily available, allowing for easier analysis of particular trends within the marketplace. This helps limit price manipulation, as current and past information are readily available to all, making it more difficult to act unscrupulously.



Additionally, no trader has a particular built-in advantage over the other, as they all have equal access to the information.


   Disadvantages of Electronic Communications Networks  

One of the biggest drawbacks to using an ECN is the price to pay for using it. Typically, the fees and commissions for using an ECN are higher as compared to non-ECN systems. Per-trade-based commissions can be costly and can affect a trader's bottom line and profitability.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is Econometrics?  

Econometrics is the use of statistical and mathematical models to develop theories or test existing hypotheses in economics and to forecast future trends from historical data. It subjects real-world data to statistical trials and then compares the results against the theory being tested.



Depending on whether you are interested in testing an existing theory or in using existing data to develop a new hypothesis, econometrics can be subdivided into two major categories: theoretical and applied. Those who routinely engage in this practice are commonly known as econometricians.





Key Takeaways

Econometrics is the use of statistical methods to develop theories or test existing hypotheses in economics or finance.Econometrics relies on techniques such as regression models and null hypothesis testing.Econometrics can also be used to try to forecast future economic or financial trends.As with other statistical tools, econometricians should be careful not to infer a causal relationship from statistical correlation. Some economists have criticized the field of econometrics for prioritizing statistical models over economic reasoning.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Understanding Econometrics  

Econometrics analyzes data using statistical methods in order to test or develop economic theory. These methods rely on statistical inferences to quantify and analyze economic theories by leveraging tools such as frequency distributions, probability, and probability distributions, statistical inference, correlation analysis, simple and multiple regression analysis, simultaneous equations models, and time series methods.



Econometrics was pioneered by Lawrence Klein, Ragnar Frisch, and Simon Kuznets. All three won the Nobel Prize in economics for their contributions. Today, it is used regularly among academics as well as practitioners such as Wall Street traders and analysts.



An example of the application of econometrics is to study the income effect using observable data. An economist may hypothesize that as a person increases their income, their spending will also increase.



If the data show that such an association is present, a regression analysis can then be conducted to understand the strength of the relationship between income and consumption and whether or not that relationship is statistically significant—that is, it appears to be unlikely that it is due to chance alone.


   Methods of Econometrics  

The first step to econometric methodology is to obtain and analyze a set of data and define a specific hypothesis that explains the nature and shape of the set. This data may be, for example, the historical prices for a stock index, observations collected from a survey of consumer finances, or unemployment and inflation rates in different countries.



If you are interested in the relationship between the annual price change of the S&P 500 and the unemployment rate, you'd collect both sets of data. Then, you might test the idea that higher unemployment leads to lower stock market prices. In this example, stock market price would be the dependent variable and the unemployment rate is the independent or explanatory variable.



The most common relationship is linear, meaning that any change in the explanatory variable will have a positive correlation with the dependent variable. This relationship could be explored with a simple regression model, which amounts to generating a best-fit line between the two sets of data and then testing to see how far each data point is, on average, from that line.



Note that you can have several explanatory variables in your analysis—for example, changes to GDP and inflation in addition to unemployment in explaining stock market prices. When more than one explanatory variable is used, it is referred to as multiple linear regression. This is the most commonly used tool in econometrics.






Some economists, including John Maynard Keynes, have criticized econometricians for their over-reliance on statistical correlations in lieu of economic thinking.


  Different Regression Models  

There are several different regression models that are optimized depending on the nature of the data being analyzed and the type of question being asked. The most common example is the ordinary least squares (OLS) regression, which can be conducted on several types of cross-sectional or time-series data. If you're interested in a binary (yes-no) outcome—for instance, how likely you are to be fired from a job based on your productivity—you might use a logistic regression or a probit model. Today, econometricians have hundreds of models at their disposal.



Econometrics is now conducted using statistical analysis software packages designed for these purposes, such as STATA, SPSS, or R. These software packages can also easily test for statistical significance to determine the likelihood that correlations might arise by chance. R-squared, t-tests, p-values, and null-hypothesis testing are all methods used by econometricians to evaluate the validity of their model results.


   Limitations of Econometrics  

Econometrics is sometimes criticized for relying too heavily on the interpretation of raw data without linking it to established economic theory or looking for causal mechanisms. It is crucial that the findings revealed in the data are able to be adequately explained by a theory, even if that means developing your own theory of the underlying processes.



Regression analysis also does not prove causation, and just because two data sets show an association, it may be spurious. For example, drowning deaths in swimming pools increase with GDP. Does a growing economy cause people to drown? This is unlikely, but perhaps more people buy pools when the economy is booming. Econometrics is largely concerned with correlation analysis, and it is important to remember that correlation does not equal causation.




What Are Estimators in Econometrics?
An estimator is a statistic that is used to estimate some fact or measurement about a larger population. Estimators are frequently used in situations where it is not practical to measure the entire population. For example, it is not possible to measure the exact employment rate at any specific time, but it is possible to estimate unemployment based on a randomly-chosen sample of the population.




What Is Autocorrelation in Econometrics?
Autocorrelation measures the relationships between a single variable at different time periods. For this reason, it is sometimes called lagged correlation or serial correlation, since it is used to measure how the past value of a certain variable might predict future values of the same variable. Autocorrelation is a useful tool for traders, especially in technical analysis.




What Is Endogeneity in Econometrics?
An endogenous variable is a variable that is influenced by changes in another variable. Due to the complexity of economic systems, it is difficult to determine all of the subtle relationships between different factors, and some variables may be partially endogenous and partially exogenous. In econometric studies, the researchers must be careful to account for the possibility that the error term may be partially correlated with other variables.


   The Bottom Line  

Econometrics is a popular discipline that integrates statistical tools and modeling for economic data, and it is frequently used by policymakers to forecast the result of policy changes. Like with other statistical tools, there are many possibilities for error when econometric tools are used carelessly. Econometricians must be careful to justify their conclusions with sound reasoning as well as statistical inferences.
What Is the Economic Calendar?  

The economic calendar refers to the scheduled dates of significant releases or events that may affect the movement of individual security prices or markets as a whole. Investors and traders use the economic calendar to plan trades and portfolio reallocations and to be alert for chart patterns and indicators that may be caused or affected by these events. The economic calendar for various countries is available for free on many financial and market websites.





Key Takeaways

The economic calendar refers to the scheduled dates of significant releases or events that may affect the movement of individual security prices or markets as a whole.Investors and traders use the economic calendar to plan trades and portfolio reallocations and find chart patterns and indicators that may be caused or affected by these events. Most of the events listed fall into two categories: projections of future financial or economic events or reports on past financial or economic events.


   Understanding the Economic Calendar  

Economic calendars usually focus on a given country's scheduled releases of economic reports. Examples of events on an economic calendar include weekly jobless claims, reports of new home starts, scheduled changes in the interest rate or interest rate signaling, regular reports from the Federal Reserve or other central banks, and economic sentiment surveys from specific markets and many others.



Traders and investors rely on the economic calendar to provide information and trading opportunities. Traders often move into or out of positions corresponding with an announcement of some event or with the heavy trading volume that often precedes a scheduled announcement.






The majority of the events listed fall into one of two categories: projections of future financial or economic events or reports on recent financial or economic events.



Following the economic calendar can be especially beneficial for a trader who wants to take a short position. If the trader guesses correctly about the nature of the announcement, they can open a position immediately before the scheduled announcement and then close it within hours.


   Navigating the Economic Calendar  

Economic calendars are available for free from financial and economic websites. These calendars vary from site to site, however. Although they are referred to as "economic calendars," the actual calendar listings depend on the website's focus and the events the users of the website are likely to be interested in.



For example, the economic calendar on many websites lists only events in the United States as these events have a large market impact. Other sites allow users to build their own economic calendar by using filters to display or hide events.






You can create your own economic calendar by visiting the websites of the agencies that affect your investments the most and finding their regularly scheduled releases. Some examples are websites for the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve, the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and the Bureau of Economic Analysis.



While these free calendars can be a helpful starting point, most traders customize a calendar of their own based on the types of trades they prefer and the asset classes and regions they are comfortable with. Moreover, a customized economic calendar doesn't need to be limited to government and central bank releases.



A trader may, for example, create an economic calendar around the major releases from oil-producing regions while also incorporating the U.S. Energy Information Administration's weekly petroleum status report and the quarterly filing dates of the oil sector companies they follow. In this way, an economic calendar becomes a customizable trading tool like an indicator alert.




What Is the Economic Calendar for Forex?
The economic calendar for Forex generally follows the same events and releases as economic calendars for stocks with the addition of events and releases in the countries for the pairs being traded.




How Does the Economics Calendar Work?
An economics calendar shows scheduled events, news releases, and other regularly released data that tend to affect trading and investing.




Are Economic Indicators Released Quarterly?
Some economic indicators are released quarterly, while others are monthly reports. For example, the Bureau of Labor Statistics releases data on the employment situation monthly; gross domestic product is released monthly with estimates for a one-quarter period.
What Is Economic Capital?  

Economic capital is a measure of risk in terms of capital. More specifically, it's the amount of capital that a company (usually in financial services) needs to ensure that it stays solvent given its risk profile.



Economic capital is calculated internally by the company, sometimes using proprietary models. The resulting number is also the amount of capital that the firm should have to support any risks that it takes.





Key Takeaways

Economic capital is the amount of capital that a company needs to survive any risks that it takes. It's essentially a way of measuring risk.Financial services companies calculate economic capital internally.Economic capital should not be confused with regulatory capital (also known as a capital requirement).






Economic capital is different than regulatory capital, also known as capital requirement.












Investopedia / Jake Shi


   Understanding Economic Capital  

Economic capital is used for measuring and reporting market and operational risks across a financial organization. Economic capital measures risk using economic realities rather than accounting and regulatory rules, which can sometimes be misleading. As a result, economic capital is thought to give a more realistic representation of a firm's solvency.



The measurement process for economic capital involves converting a given risk to the amount of capital that it's required to support it. The calculations are based on the institution's financial strength (or credit rating) and expected losses.



Financial strength is the probability of the firm not becoming insolvent over the measurement period and is otherwise known as the confidence level in the statistical calculation. The firm's expected loss is the anticipated average loss over the measurement period. Expected losses represent the cost of doing business and are usually absorbed by operating profits.



The relationship between the frequency of loss, amount of loss, expected loss, financial strength or confidence level, and economic capital can be seen in the following graph:












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019



Calculations of economic capital and their use in risk/reward ratios reveal which business lines a bank should pursue that make the best use of the risk/reward trade-off. Performance measures that use economic capital include: return on risk-adjusted capital (RORAC); risk-adjusted return on capital (RAROC); and, economic value added (EVA). Business units that perform better on measures like these can receive more of the firm's capital in order to optimize risk. Value-at-risk (VaR) and similar measures are also based on economic capital and are used by financial institutions for risk management.


   Example of Economic Capital  

A bank wants to evaluate the risk profile of its loan portfolio over the next year. Specifically, the bank wants to determine the amount of economic capital needed to absorb a loss approaching the 0.04% mark in the loss distribution corresponding to a 99.96% confidence interval.



The bank finds that a 99.96% confidence interval yields $1 billion in economic capital in excess of the expected (average) loss. If the bank had a shortfall in economic capital, it could take measures such as raising capital or increasing the underwriting standards for its loan portfolio in order to maintain its desired credit rating. The bank could further break down its loan portfolio in order to evaluate if the risk-reward profile of its mortgage portfolio exceeded its personal loan portfolio.
What Is Economic Collapse?  

An economic collapse is a breakdown of a national, regional, or territorial economy that typically follows a time of crisis. An economic collapse occurs at the onset of a severe version of an economic contraction, depression, or recession and can last any number of years depending on the severity of the circumstances. An economic collapse can happen rapidly due to an unexpected event, or it may be preceded by several events or signs pointing to fragility in the economy.





Key Takeaways

Economic collapse is not part of the regular economic cycle of expansion and contraction.An economic collapse is most clearly identified by a widespread breakdown in normal market mechanisms and commerce.The Great Depression of the 1930s is considered one of the worst economic collapses in history due to its global impact, while the extent of the fallout from the 2020 COVID-19 pandemic remains to be seen.


   Understanding Economic Collapse  

An economic collapse is an extraordinary event that is not necessarily a part of the standard economic cycle. It can occur at any point in the cycle, leading to contraction and recessionary phases. Economic theory outlines several phases that an economy can go through. A full economic cycle includes movement from trough to expansion, followed by a peak, and then a contraction leading back towards the trough. Although an economic collapse should be more likely in an economy that is already contracting, black swan events or trends in the global economy can override any point in the cycle to set off an economic collapse.



Unlike contractions and recessions, there is no agreed-upon guideline for an economic collapse. Instead, the term economic collapse is a label that may be applied by economists and government officials—and it may be applied months or years after the actual event. Governments also tend to speak in terms of economic collapse when crafting large-scale stimulus during market panics. The threat of economic collapse is raised in order to make the case for intervention in the economy.


   Responding to Economic Collapse  

Although economies can and still do experience economic collapse, there is a strong incentive for national governments to attempt to stave off or lessen the severity of an economic collapse through fiscal and monetary policy. An economic collapse is often combated with several waves of interventions and fiscal measures. For example, banks may close to curb withdrawals, new capital controls may be enforced, billions could be pumped into the economy through the banking system, and entire currencies may be revalued or even replaced. Despite government efforts, some economic collapses result in a complete overthrow of the government both responsible for and responding to the collapse.



Following an economic collapse, there are almost always a number of legislative changes aimed at avoiding a similar situation in the future. These changes are usually informed by a post-collapse analysis aimed at identifying the key factors leading to the collapse and integrating controls in new legislation to mitigate those risks in the future. Over time, the appetite for these financial controls can weaken, leading to the regulation of risky market behavior being relaxed as the memory of the economic collapse fades. 


   Examples in History  

There are many examples of national-level economic collapse throughout history. Each economic collapse typically has its own special circumstances and factors, although some share triggers as with the Great Depression. Oftentimes these factors are mixed with many of the macroeconomic factors that occur in contractions and recessions such as hyperinflation, stagflation, stock market crashes, extended bear markets, and unbalanced interest and inflation rates. Of course, economic collapses can also occur from extraordinary factors like disastrous government policies, a depressed global market, or the old standbys of war, famine, plague, and death.



In the United States, the 1930s Great Depression remains the prime example of an economic collapse, ranking as both the greatest in terms of damage as well as the longest from which to recover. The 1929 stock market crash was a key catalyst for the collapse, but the problems were compounded by policy responses and systematic weaknesses. The multi-year economic collapse of the U.S. economy was followed was sweeping regulatory reforms affecting the investment and banking industries, including the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Many economists have blamed the economic collapse that began in the 1920s on a lack of government involvement in the economy and financial markets.






It took 25 years to fully recover from the Great Depression.﻿﻿﻿ In addition, unemployment during the Depression surpassed 24%.﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿



The 2008 financial crisis is not considered an economic collapse in terms of the American economy, but a collapse was believed to be imminent at the time. The freezing of the credit market may well have resulted in a more severe situation if not for the liquidity provided by the Federal Reserve.



The bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers was the tipping point for the 2008 financial crisis, but it wasn't the only one. Overall, the factors involved in the 2008 crisis included extremely loose lending and trading policies for institutions. This lack of rigor led to large losses from defaults that were transmitted and amplified by the derivatives market. Similar to the 1920s collapse, the 2008 financial crisis also resulted in legislative reform, primarily in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.



The 2007–2009 Great Recession lasted less than two years and the U.S. experienced six quarters of negative GDP growth with a 5.3% reduction in GDP growth from 2006 to 2009. The 2007–2009 Recession also resulted in unemployment reaching a high level of 9.6% in 2010. 



There are also many international economic collapses that have occurred throughout history. The Soviet Union, Latin America, Greece, and Argentina have all made headlines in this regard. In the cases of Greece and Argentina, both economic collapses were brought about by severe issues with sovereign debt. In both Greece and Argentina, sovereign debt collapses led to consumer riots, a drop in the currency, international bailout support, and an overhaul of the government.



The 2020 COVID-19 pandemic, which spread across the globe—starting in China, then Europe, then the Americas—is another example of an external shock leading to a global economic downturn.
What Are Economic Conditions?  

Economic conditions refer to the present state of the economy in a country or region. These conditions change over time along with the economic and business cycles, as an economy goes through periods of expansion and contraction. Economic conditions are considered to be sound or positive when an economy is expanding and are seen as adverse or negative when an economy is contracting.


   Understanding Economic Conditions  

A country's economic conditions are influenced by numerous macroeconomic and microeconomic factors, including monetary and fiscal policy, the state of the global economy, unemployment levels, productivity, exchange rates, inflation and many others.



Economic data is released on a regular basis, generally weekly or monthly and sometimes quarterly. Some economic indicators like the unemployment rate and GDP growth rate are monitored closely by market participants, as they help to make an assessment of economic conditions and potential changes in them. A plethora of economic indicators can be used to define the state of the economy or economic conditions, including the unemployment rate, levels of current account and budget surpluses or deficits, GDP growth rates and inflation rates.



Generally speaking, economic indicators can be categorized as leading, coincident or lagging. That is, they describe likely future economic conditions, current economic conditions or conditions of the recent past. Economists are typically most interested in leading indicators as a way to understand what economic conditions will be like in the next three to six months. For example, indicators like new orders for manufactured goods and new housing permits indicate the pace of future economic activity as it relates to the rate of manufacturing output and housing construction.



Other indicators that can forecast future economic conditions include the consumer confidence index, new factory orders (the new orders for goods by retail and other businesses) and business inventories (the inventories maintained by businesses to keep up with demand). 





Key Takeaways

Economic conditions refer to the state of macroeconomic variables and trends in a country at a point in time.Such conditions may include GDP growth potential, the unemployment rate, inflation, and fiscal and monetary policy orientations.Economic conditions are measured by economists and analysts and take the form of quantifiable economic indicators.


   Why Economic Conditions Matter for Investors and Businesses  

Indicators of economic conditions provide important insights to investors and businesses. Investors use indicators of economic conditions to adjust their views on economic growth and profitability. An improvement in economic conditions would lead investors to be more optimistic about the future and potentially invest more as they expect positive returns. The opposite could be true if economic conditions worsen. Similarly, businesses monitor economic conditions to gain insight into their own sales growth and profitability. A fairly typical way of forecasting growth would be to use the previous year's trend as a baseline and augment it with the latest economic data and projections that are most relevant to their products and services. For example, a construction company would look at economic conditions in the housing sector to understand whether momentum is improving or slowing and adjust its business strategy accordingly.
What Is the Economic Cycle?  

An economic cycle, also known as a business cycle, refers to economic fluctuations between periods of expansion and contraction. Factors such as gross domestic product (GDP), interest rates, total employment, and consumer spending can help determine the current economic cycle stage.



Understanding the economic period can help investors and businesses determine when to make investments and when to pull their money out, as each cycle impacts stocks and bonds as well as profits and corporate earnings.





Key Takeaways

An economic cycle is the overall state of the economy as it goes through four stages in a cyclical pattern: expansion, peak, contraction, and trough.Factors such as GDP, interest rates, total employment, and consumer spending can help determine the current stage of the economic cycle.The causes of a cycle are highly debated among different schools of economics.












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   Stages of the Economic Cycle  

An economic cycle is the circular movement of an economy as it moves from expansion to contraction and back again. Economic expansion is characterized by growth and contraction, including recession, a decline in economic activity that can last several months. Four stages characterize the economic cycle or business cycle.


  Expansion  

During expansion, the economy experiences relatively rapid growth, interest rates tend to be low, and production increases. The economic indicators associated with growth, such as employment and wages, corporate profits and output, aggregate demand, and the supply of goods and services, tend to show sustained uptrends through the expansionary stage. The flow of money through the economy remains healthy and the cost of money is cheap. However, the increase in the money supply may spur inflation during the economic growth phase.


  Peak  

The peak of a cycle is when growth hits its maximum rate. Prices and economic indicators may stabilize for a short period before reversing to the downside. Peak growth typically creates some imbalances in the economy that need to be corrected. As a result, businesses may start to reevaluate their budgets and spending when they believe that the economic cycle has reached its peak.


  Contraction  

A correction occurs when growth slows, employment falls, and prices stagnate. As demand decreases, businesses may not immediately adjust production levels, leading to oversaturated markets with surplus supply and a downward movement in prices. If the contraction continues, the recessionary environment may spiral into a depression.


  Trough  

The trough of the cycle is reached when the economy hits a low point, with supply and demand hitting bottom before recovery. The low point in the cycle represents a painful moment for the economy, with a widespread negative impact from stagnating spending and income. The low point provides an opportunity for individuals and businesses to reconfigure their finances in anticipation of a recovery.


   Measuring Economic Cycles  

Key metrics determine where the economy is and where it's headed. The National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) is the definitive source for marking the official dates for U.S. economic cycles. Relying primarily on changes in GDP, NBER measures the length of economic cycles from trough to trough or peak to peak.



Since the 1950s, a U.S. economic cycle, on average, lasted about five and a half years. However, there is wide variation in the length of cycles, ranging from just 18 months during the peak-to-peak cycle in 1981 to 1982 up to the expansion that began in 2009. According to the NBER, two peaks occurred between 2019 and 2020. The first was in the fourth quarter of 2019, a peak in quarterly economic activity. The monthly peak happened in a different quarter, which was noted as taking place in February 2020.



This wide variation in cycle length dispels the myth that economic cycles are a regular natural activity akin to physical waves or swings of a pendulum. But there is debate as to what factors contribute to the length of an economic cycle and what causes them to exist in the first place.






Businesses and investors need to manage their strategy over economic cycles—not so much to control them but to survive them and perhaps profit from them.


   Managing Economic Cycles  

Governments, financial institutions, and investors manage the course and effects of economic cycles differently. During a recession, a government may use expansionary fiscal policy and rapid deficit spending. It can also try contractionary fiscal policy by taxing and running a budget surplus to reduce aggregate spending to prevent the economy from overheating during expansion.



Central banks may use monetary policy. When the cycle hits a downturn, a central bank can lower interest rates or implement expansionary monetary policy to boost spending and investment. During expansion, it can employ contractionary monetary policy by raising interest rates and slowing the flow of credit into the economy.



During expansion, investors often find opportunities in the technology, capital goods, and energy sectors. When the economy contracts, investors may purchase companies that thrive during recessions, such as utilities, consumer staples, and healthcare.



Businesses that track the relationship between their performance and business cycles can plan strategically to protect themselves from approaching downturns and position themselves to take maximum advantage of economic expansions. For example, if your business follows the rest of the economy, warning signs of an impending recession may suggest you shouldn't expand. You may be better off building up your cash reserves.


   Economic Theory  

Monetarism suggests that government can achieve economic stability through their money supply's growth rate. It ties the economic cycle to the credit cycle, where changes in interest rates reduce or induce economic activity by making borrowing by households, businesses, and the government more or less expensive.



The Keynesian approach argues that changes in aggregate demand, spurred by inherent instability and volatility in investment demand, are responsible for generating cycles. When business sentiment turns gloomy and investment slows, a self-fulfilling loop of economic malaise can result. Less spending means less demand, which induces businesses to lay off workers. According to Keynesians, unemployment means less consumer spending, and the whole economy sours, with no clear solution other than government intervention and economic stimulus.




What Are the Stages of an Economic Cycle?
An economic cycle, or business cycle, has four stages: expansion, peak, contraction, and trough. The average economic cycle in the U.S. has lasted roughly five and a half years since 1950, although these cycles can vary in length. Factors to indicate the stages include gross domestic product, consumer spending, interest rates, and inflation. The National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) is a leading source for indicating the length of a cycle.




What Happens in Each Phase of the Economic Cycle?
In the expansionary phase, the economy experiences growth over two or more consecutive quarters. Interest rates are typically lower, employment rates rise, and consumer confidence strengthens. The peak phase occurs when the economy reaches its maximum productive output, signaling the end of the expansion. After that point, employment numbers and housing starts to decline, leading to a contractionary phase. The lowest point in the business cycle is a trough, which is characterized by higher unemployment, lower availability of credit, and falling prices.




What Causes an Economic Cycle?
The causes of an economic cycle are widely debated among different economic schools of thought. Monetarists, for example, link the economic cycle to the credit cycle. Here, interest rates, which intimately affect the price of debt, influence consumer spending and economic activity. On the other hand, a Keynesian approach suggests that the economic cycle is caused by volatility or investment demand, which in turn affects spending and employment.


   The Bottom Line  

The economic or business cycle refers to the cyclical pattern experienced by the economy. The economy remains in an expansion phase until it reaches its peak, reversing to the downside and entering a contraction before a trough, and begins to expand once again. GDP, interest rates, employment levels, and consumer spending can help define the economic cycle. Although there are different economic theories to explain what drives the economic cycle, the conditions associated with each stage can impact business and investment decisions.
What Is Economic Depreciation?  

Economic depreciation is a measure of the decrease in the market value of an asset over time from influential economic factors. This form of depreciation usually pertains to real estate, which can lose value for several reasons such as the addition of unfavorable construction in close proximity to a property, road closures, a decline in the quality of a neighborhood, or other negative influences. 



Economic depreciation is different than accounting depreciation. In accounting depreciation, an asset is expensed over a specific amount of time, based on a set schedule.


   How Economic Depreciation Works  

Depreciation in economics is a measure of the amount of value an asset loses from influential factors affecting its market value. Asset owners may more closely consider economic depreciation over accounting depreciation if they seek to sell an asset at its market value.



Economic depreciation affects the selling value of an asset in the market. It may be followed and tracked by asset owners. In business accounting, economic depreciation is not typically notated on financial statement reporting for large capital assets since accountants usually use book value as the primary reporting method.



There can be several scenarios where economic depreciation is considered in financial analysis. Real estate is one of the most common examples but analysts may also consider it in other situations as well. Economic depreciation can also be a factor in forecasts of future revenues for goods and services.





Key Takeaways

Economic depreciation is a measure of the decrease in the market value of an asset over time from influential economic factors.Economic depreciation can be analyzed in various scenarios.Economic depreciation can be important for asset owners seeking to sell an asset in the open market.Economic depreciation differs from accounting depreciation which decreases value through a set schedule for a specified period of time.


   Economic Depreciation vs. Accounting Depreciation  

Calculating economic depreciation is not always as simple as in accounting depreciation. In accounting depreciation, a tangible asset’s value decreases over time based on a set depreciation schedule. With economic depreciation an asset’s decreases in value are not necessarily uniform or scheduled but rather based on influential economic factors.



Economic depreciation can often occur with real estate. In periods of economic downturn or a general housing market decline, economic depreciation may lead to a decrease in market value. The housing market environment can play a part in real estate valuations but individual valuations may also be affected by unfavorable neighborhood construction, road closures, a decline in the quality of a neighborhood, or other negative influences. Any type of negative economic factors can lead to economic depreciation and therefore a lower appraisal value. The difference in value from one appraisal to the next can show a property’s economic depreciation.



Appraisals can be key to understanding economic depreciation. Appraisals can occur on all types of assets and are often the biggest determinant of economic depreciation.



Financial analysts may also consider economic depreciation when forecasting future projections and cash flows. Economic depreciation in these scenarios would be based on the decreases in the value of revenues expected from goods or services due to negative economic influences.


  Accounting Depreciation  

When people talk about depreciation, it is often in reference to accounting depreciation. Accounting depreciation is the process of allocating the cost of an asset over the course of its useful life so as to align its expenses with revenue generation. Businesses also create accounting depreciation schedules with tax benefits in mind since depreciation on assets is deductible as a business expense in accordance with the Internal Revenue Service's (IRS) rules.



Most businesses depreciate an asset to $0 in book value because they believe the asset’s value and expenses have been fully matched with the revenue it generates over its expected useful life. Companies may choose to hold some book value of a depreciated asset after it has been fully depreciated.



The book value of an asset and the market value of an asset are usually very different. The economic value or market value of an asset may not be reported on financial statements but it is the value a company could potentially get if they chose to make an asset sale.


   Depreciation vs. Appreciation  

In general, both economic depreciation and economic appreciation can affect the market value of an asset. In some instances, one appraisal to another may show an increase in value. This would be the result of negative depreciation or positive appreciation.



During the credit crisis and housing market collapse of 2008, the combination of subprime loans requiring low or no down payments with the dramatic drop in housing values resulted in a significant amount of U.S. homeowners owing more money on their home than it was actually worth due to economic depreciation.





60%

During the housing crisis of 2008, homeowners in the hardest-hit areas, such as Las Vegas, saw the value of their homes depreciate by as much as 60%.



Hypothetically, economic influences can also lead to increases in value or economic appreciation. Following the height of the 2008 financial crisis, regulators and the central bank took steps to improve economic conditions for the housing market that resulted in a housing market rebound and significant economic appreciation in real estate values from one appraisal to the next.


   Valuing Assets  

All types of assets are subject to the risks of economic depreciation and economic appreciation. Companies and investors may need to analyze and follow these effects differently. A company may not always be concerned with how economic depreciation is affecting the market value of its tangible assets. However, companies and investors will be concerned with how market influences are affecting highly liquid assets like stocks, bonds, and money market accounts.



Companies will follow more closely the depreciation and appreciation of assets that it marks to market on its books regularly since that has a greater impact on its overall performance. Investors certainly follow the economic depreciation and appreciation of assets in their portfolio regularly since it can have a big effect on their net worth from one day to the next.



For asset owners, liquidity can also be a factor in analyzing economic depreciation and appreciation. Real estate assets may see a larger increase or decrease in value from year to year due to economic effects. Investors may view the economic depreciation or appreciation of their more liquid assets differently since economic factors can influence values from one day to the next.
What Is Economic Efficiency?  

Economic efficiency is when all goods and factors of production in an economy are distributed or allocated to their most valuable uses and waste is eliminated or minimized. A system is considered economically efficient if the factors of production are used at a level at or near their capacity.



In contrast, a system is considered economically inefficient if available factors are not used to their capacity. Wasted resources and deadweight losses may cause economic inefficiencies.





Key Takeaways

Economic efficiency refers to how effectively a society's scarce resources are used to produce goods. Economists have several ways of measuring economic efficiency, based on the allocation of inputs, costs, or the allocation of final consumer goods. Productive efficiency is a situation where firms seek the best combination of inputs to lower their costs of production. Allocative efficiency means that economic resources are distributed in a way that produces the highest consumer satisfaction relative to the cost of inputs.Pareto efficiency refers to a situation where it is impossible to improve one person's situation without harming another person's situation. 












Investopedia / Lara Antal


   Understanding Economic Efficiency  

Economic efficiency implies an economic state in which every resource is optimally allocated to serve each individual or entity in the best way while minimizing waste and inefficiency. When an economy is economically efficient, any changes made to assist one entity would harm another. In terms of production, goods are produced at their lowest possible cost, as are the variable inputs of production.



Some terms that encompass phases of economic efficiency include allocative efficiency, productive efficiency, distributive efficiency, and Pareto efficiency. A state of economic efficiency is essentially theoretical; a limit that can be approached but never reached. Instead, economists look at the amount of loss, referred to as waste, between pure efficiency and reality to see how efficiently an economy functions.


   Economic Efficiency and Scarcity  

The principles of economic efficiency are based on the concept that resources are scarce. Therefore, there are not sufficient resources to ensure that all aspects of an economy function at their highest capacity at all times. Instead, scarce resources must be distributed to meet the needs of the economy in an ideal way while also limiting the amount of waste produced. The ideal state is related to the welfare of the population with peak efficiency also resulting in the highest level of welfare possible based on the resources available.






One way to measure economic efficiency is based on the unused productive capacity of an economy or system. In the United States, this is reported in the Quarterly Survey of Plant Capacity Utilization, issued by the census bureau every three months.


   Efficiency in Production, Allocation, and Distribution  

Productive firms seek to maximize their profits by bringing in the most revenue while minimizing costs. To do this, they choose a combination of inputs that minimizes their costs while producing as much output as possible. By doing so, they operate efficiently; when all firms in the economy do so, it is known as productive efficiency.



Consumers, likewise, seek to maximize their well-being by consuming combinations of final consumer goods that produce the highest total satisfaction of their wants and needs at the lowest cost to them. The resulting consumer demand guides productive (through the laws of supply and demand) firms to produce the right quantities of consumer goods in the economy that will provide the highest consumer satisfaction relative to the costs of inputs. When economic resources are allocated across different firms and industries (each following the principle of productive efficiency) in a way that produces the right quantities of final consumer goods, this is called allocative efficiency.



Finally, because each individual values goods differently and according to the law of diminishing marginal utility, the distribution of final consumer goods in an economy is efficient or inefficient. Distributive efficiency is when the consumer goods in an economy are distributed so that each unit is consumed by the individual who values that unit most highly compared to all other individuals. Note that this type of efficiency assumes that the amount of value that individuals place on economic goods can be quantified and compared across individuals.


   Economic Efficiency and Welfare  

Measuring economic efficiency is often subjective, relying on assumptions about the social good, or welfare, created and how well that serves consumers. In this regard, welfare relates to the standard of living and relative comfort experienced by people within the economy. At peak economic efficiency (when the economy is at productive and allocative efficiency), the welfare of one cannot be improved without subsequently lowering the welfare of another. This point is called Pareto efficiency.



Even if Pareto efficiency is reached, the standard of living of all individuals within the economy may not be equal. Pareto efficiency does not include issues of fairness or equality among those within a particular economy. Instead, the focus is purely on reaching a point of optimal operation regarding the use of limited or scarce resources. It states that efficiency is obtained when a distribution exists where one party's situation cannot be improved without making another party's situation worse.




How Does Privatization Affect Economic Efficiency?
Many economists believe that privatization can make some government-owned enterprises more efficient by placing them under budget pressure and market discipline. This requires the administrators of those companies to reduce their inefficiencies by downsizing unproductive departments or reducing costs.




What Is the Difference Between Technical Efficiency and Economic Efficiency?
Technical efficiency refers to how effectively a company or system maximizes production based on a limited number of inputs. A company is said to be technically efficient if it cannot produce more goods without increasing the number of inputs used in production, such as labor or raw materials. In contrast, economic efficiency seeks to minimize the number of costs per unit. This may be a similar goal to technical efficiency, but they are not always the same.




How Do Taxes Affect Economic Efficiency?
Taxes often have the effect of reducing economic efficiency by introducing deadweight losses. For example, a sales tax on a certain product increases the price, thereby reducing sales. These lost sales are considered a deadweight loss because they represent potential economic activity that was not realized because of the sales tax.




How Does Advertising Affect Economic Efficiency?
Advertising can increase economic efficiency by supporting competition between different companies in the same market. As businesses compete for consumers, they may rely on advertisements to inform buyers of the best bargains and products. If a business successfully attracts more customers through advertising, it may be able to reduce its costs due to economies of scale. However, advertising can also have negative effects, such as persuading consumers to buy overpriced products.


   The Bottom Line  

Economic efficiency refers to the effective utilization of productive resources, such as agricultural land, manufacturing capacity, raw materials, or labor. Economists have several ways of measuring economic efficiency. Understanding and improving efficiency is one of the main objectives of economics.
What Is Economic Equilibrium?  

Economic equilibrium is a condition or state in which economic forces are balanced. In effect, economic variables remain unchanged from their equilibrium values in the absence of external influences. Economic equilibrium is also referred to as market equilibrium.



Economic equilibrium is the combination of economic variables (usually price and quantity) toward which normal economic processes, such as supply and demand, drive the economy. The term economic equilibrium can also be applied to any number of variables such as interest rates or aggregate consumption spending. The point of equilibrium represents a theoretical state of rest where all economic transactions that “should” occur, given the initial state of all relevant economic variables, have taken place.





Key Takeaways

Economic equilibrium is a condition where market forces are balanced, a concept borrowed from physical sciences, where observable physical forces can balance each other.The incentives faced by buyers and sellers in a market, communicated through current prices and quantities drive them to offer higher or lower prices and quantities that move the economy toward equilibrium.Economic equilibrium is a theoretical construct only. The market never actually reaches equilibrium, though it is constantly moving toward equilibrium.












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   Understanding Economic Equilibrium  

Equilibrium is a concept borrowed from the physical sciences, by economists who conceive of economic processes as analogous to physical phenomena such as velocity, friction, heat, or fluid pressure. When physical forces are balanced in a system, no further change occurs.



For example, consider a balloon. To inflate a balloon, you blow air into it, increasing the air pressure in the balloon by forcing air in. The air pressure in the balloon rises above the air pressure outside the balloon; the pressures are not balanced. As a result the balloon expands, lowering the internal pressure until it equals the air pressure outside. Once the balloon expands enough so that the air pressure inside and out are in balance, it stops expanding; it has reached equilibrium.



In economics we can think about something similar with regard to market prices, supply, and demand. If the price in a given market is too low, then the quantity that buyers demand will be more than the quantity that sellers are willing to offer. Like the air pressures in and around the balloon, supply and demand will not be in balance. consequently a condition of oversupply in the market, a state of market disequilibrium.



So something has to give; buyers will have to offer higher prices to induce sellers to part with their goods. As they do, the market price will rise toward the level where the quantity demanded equals the quantity supplied, just as a balloon will expand until the pressures equalize. Eventually it may reach a balance where quantity demanded just equals quantity supplied, and we can call this the market equilibrium. 


   Types of Economic Equilibrium  

In microeconomics, economic equilibrium may also be defined as the price at which supply equals demand for a product, in other words where the hypothetical supply and demand curves intersect. If this refers to a market for a single good, service, or factor of production it can also be referred to as partial equilibrium, as opposed to general equilibrium, which refers to a state where all final good, service, and factor markets are in equilibrium themselves and with each other simultaneously. Equilibrium can also refer to a similar state in macroeconomics, where aggregate supply and aggregate demand are in balance.


   Economic Equilibrium in the Real World  

Equilibrium is a fundamentally theoretical construct that may never actually occur in an economy, because the conditions underlying supply and demand are often dynamic and uncertain. The state of all relevant economic variables changes constantly. Actually reaching economic equilibrium is something like a monkey hitting a dartboard by throwing a dart of random and unpredictably changing size and shape at a dartboard, with both the dartboard and the thrower careening around independently on a roller rink. The economy chases after equilibrium with out every actually reaching it.



With enough practice, the monkey can get pretty close though. Entrepreneurs compete throughout the economy, using their judgment to make educated guesses as to the best combinations of goods, prices, and quantities to buy and sell. Because a market economy rewards those who guess better, through the mechanism of profits, entrepreneurs are in effect rewarded for moving the economy toward equilibrium.



The business and financial media, price circulars and advertising, consumer and market researchers, and the advancement of information technology all make information about the relevant economic conditions of supply and demand more available to entrepreneurs over time. This combination of market incentives that select for better guesses about economic conditions and the increasing availability of better economic information to educate those guesses accelerates the economy toward the “correct” equilibrium values of prices and quantities for all the various goods and services that are produced, bought, and sold.     




What Does Equilibrium Price Mean in Economics?
Economic equilibrium as it relates to price is used in microeconomics. It is the price at which the supply of a product is aligned with the demand, so that the supply and demand curves intersect.




Does Economic Equilibrium Exist?
Economic equilibrium is seen as a concept or theoretical construct, rather than a realistic goal due to the unlikelihood of economic conditions lining up in such a way as to create a perfectly balanced environment for price and demand. 




What Are the Two Kinds of Economic Equilibrium?
In microeconomics, the term refers to the balancing of supply and demand; in macroeconomics, it refers to a state in which the aggregate supply and demand are in balance.
What Is Economic Exposure?  

Economic exposure is a type of foreign exchange exposure caused by the effect of unexpected currency fluctuations on a company’s future cash flows, foreign investments, and earnings. Economic exposure, also known as operating exposure, can have a substantial impact on a company’s market value since it has far-reaching effects and is long-term in nature. Companies can hedge against unexpected currency fluctuations by investing in foreign exchange (FX) trading.





Key Takeaways

Economic exposure is a type of foreign exchange exposure caused by the effect of unexpected currency fluctuations.Exposure increases as foreign exchange volatility increases and decreases as it falls.Economic exposure is a risk for multinational companies that have numerous subsidiaries overseas and many transactions involving foreign currencies.Though economic exposure is a large concern for multinational companies, due to the advent of globalization, many businesses can experience economic exposure.Economic exposure can be mitigated either through operational strategies, such as the diversification of production facilities, or currency risk mitigation strategies, such as currency swaps.


   Understanding Economic Exposure  

The degree of economic exposure is directly proportional to currency volatility. Economic exposure increases as foreign exchange volatility increases and decreases as it falls.



Economic exposure is obviously greater for multinational companies that have numerous subsidiaries overseas and a huge number of transactions involving foreign currencies; however, increasing globalization has made economic exposure a source of greater risk for all companies and consumers.



Economic exposure can arise for any company regardless of its size and even if it only operates in domestic markets.


   Mitigating Economic Exposure  

Economic exposure can be mitigated either through operational strategies or currency risk mitigation strategies. Operational strategies involve diversification of production facilities, end-product markets, and financing sources, since currency effects may offset each other to some extent if a number of different currencies are involved.



Currency risk-mitigation strategies involve matching currency flows, risk-sharing agreements, and currency swaps. Matching currency flow means matching cash outflows and inflows with the same currency, such as doing as much business as possible in one currency, including borrowings. Currency swaps allow two companies to effectively borrow each other’s currencies for a period of time. 


   Example of Economic Exposure  

Assume that a large U.S. company that earns approximately 50% of its revenue from overseas markets has factored in a gradual decline of the U.S. dollar against major global currencies; say 2% per annum into its operating forecasts for the next few years.



If the dollar appreciates instead of weakening gradually in the years ahead, this would represent economic exposure for the company. The dollar’s strength means that the 50% of revenues and cash flows the company receives from overseas will be lower when converted back into dollars, which will have a negative effect on its profitability and valuation.



The company would have to employ currency risk-mitigation strategies to hedge against any adverse moves from an incorrect calculation. It might employ a small FX trading desk within the firm to help reduce exposure to adverse currency fluctuations.




How Do You Manage Economic Exposure?
Economic exposure is managed through two overarching strategies: operational strategies and currency risk-mitigation strategies. Operational strategies include diversification in production facilities and the markets the products are sold, flexibility in sourcing raw materials, and diversifying financing sources. Currency risk-mitigation strategies include matching currency flows, currency swaps, risk-sharing agreements, and back-to-back loans.




What Is Currency Exposure?
Currency exposure is the change in an asset's return due to fluctuations in a foreign currency when the asset's return is measured in the domestic currency. In general, currency exposure is the increase or decrease in an asset's value in the domestic currency due to changes in the value of a foreign currency. This is often measured in relation to a company's profits that are earned overseas and have to be converted back into its domestic currency.




What Is the Main Purpose of Economic Exposure Management?
The main purpose of economic exposure management is to reduce the impact that changes in exchange rates have on the cash flows of a company. Economic exposure management seeks to help companies preserve as much foreign profit as they can when profits in foreign currencies are converted to the domestic currency.
What Is Economic Forecasting?  

Economic forecasting is the process of attempting to predict the future condition of the economy using a combination of important and widely followed indicators.



Economic forecasting involves the building of statistical models with inputs of several key variables, or indicators, typically in an attempt to come up with a future gross domestic product (GDP) growth rate. Primary economic indicators include inflation, interest rates, industrial production, consumer confidence, worker productivity, retail sales, and unemployment rates.





Key Takeaways

Economic forecasting is the process of attempting to predict the future condition of the economy using a combination of widely followed indicators.Government officials and business managers use economic forecasts to determine fiscal and monetary policies and plan future operating activities, respectively.Since politics is highly partisan, many rational people regard economic forecasts produced by governments with healthy doses of skepticism.The challenges and subjective human behavioral aspects of economic forecasting also lead private-sector economists to regularly get predictions wrong.


   How Economic Forecasting Works  

Economic forecasts are geared toward predicting quarterly or annual GDP growth rates, the top-level macro number upon which many businesses and governments base their decisions with respect to investments, hiring, spending, and other important policies that impact aggregate economic activity. 



Business managers rely on economic forecasts, using them as a guide to plan future operating activities. Private sector companies may have in-house economists to focus on forecasts most pertinent to their specific businesses (e.g., a shipping company that wants to know how much of GDP growth is driven by trade.) Alternatively, they might rely on Wall Street or academic economists, those attached to think tanks or boutique consultants. 



Understanding what the future holds is also important for government officials, helping them to determine which fiscal and monetary policies to implement. Economists employed by the federal, state or local governments play a key role in helping policymakers set spending and tax parameters.



Since politics is highly partisan, many rational people regard economic forecasts produced by governments with healthy doses of skepticism. A prime example is the long-term GDP growth forecast assumption in the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 that projects a much smaller fiscal deficit that will burden future generations of Americans—with drastic implications to the economy—than independent economist estimates.


   Limitations of Economic Forecasting  

Economic forecasting is often described as a flawed science. Many suspect that economists who work for the White House are forced to toe the line, producing unrealistic scenarios in an attempt to justify legislation. Will the inherently flawed self-serving economic forecasts by the Federal government be accurate? As with any forecast, time will tell. 



The challenges and subjective human behavioral aspects of economic forecasting are not limited to the government. Private-sector economists, academics, and even the Federal Reserve Board (FSB) have issued economic forecasts that were wildly off the mark. Ask Alan Greenspan, Ben Bernanke or a highly compensated Wall Street or ivory tower economist what GDP forecasts they produced in 2006 for 2007-2009—the period of the Great Recession.



Economic forecasters have a history of neglecting to foresee crises. According to Prakash Loungani, assistant director and senior personnel and budget manager at the International Monetary Fund (IMF), economists failed to predict 148 of the past 150 recessions.



Loungani said this inability to spot imminent downturns is reflective of the pressures on forecasters to play it safe. Many, he added, prefer not to stray away from the consensus, mindful that bold projections could damage their reputation and potentially lead them to lose their jobs.


   Special Considerations  

Investors should also not overlook the subjective nature of economic forecasting. Predictions are heavily influenced by what type of economic theory the forecaster buys into. Projections can differ considerably between, for example, one economist that believes business activity is determined by the supply of money and another that maintains that hefty government spending is bad for the economy.





Important

The forecaster’s personal theory on how the economy works dictates what type of indicators will be paid more attention to, potentially leading to subjective or biased projections.



Many conclusions do not come from objective economic analysis. Instead, they are regularly shaped by personal beliefs on how the economy and its participants work. That inevitably means that the impact of certain policies will be judged differently.


   History of Economic Forecasting  

Economic forecasting has been around for centuries. However, it was the Great Depression of the 1930s that gave birth to the levels of analysis we see today.



After that disaster, a greater onus was placed on understanding how the economy works and where it is heading. This led to the development of a richer array of statistics and analytical techniques.
What Is Economic Growth?  

Economic growth is an increase in the production of economic goods and services in one period of time compared with a previous period. It can be measured in nominal or real (adjusted to remove inflation) terms. Traditionally, aggregate economic growth is measured in terms of gross national product (GNP) or gross domestic product (GDP), although alternative metrics are sometimes used.





Key Takeaways

Economic growth is an increase in the production of goods and services in an economy.Increases in capital goods, labor force, technology, and human capital can all contribute to economic growth.Economic growth is commonly measured in terms of the increase in aggregated market value of additional goods and services produced, using estimates such as GDP.The four phases of economic growth are expansion, peak, contraction, and trough.Tax cuts are generally less effective in spurring economic growth than are increases in government spending.If the rewards of economic growth go only to an elite group, then it is unlikely that the growth will be sustainable.












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   Understanding Economic Growth  

In simplest terms, economic growth refers to an increase in aggregate production in an economy, which is generally manifested in a rise in national income. Often, but not necessarily, aggregate gains in production correlate with increased average marginal productivity. That leads to an increase in incomes, inspiring consumers to open up their wallets and buy more, which means a higher material quality of life and standard of living.



In economics, growth is commonly modeled as a function of physical capital, human capital, labor force, and technology. Simply put, increasing the quantity or quality of the working age population, the tools that they have to work with, and the recipes that they have available to combine labor, capital, and raw materials, will lead to increased economic output.












Image by Sabrina Jiang Â© Investopedia 2020


   Phases of Economic Growth  

The economy moves through different periods of activity. This movement is called the “business cycle.” It consists of four phases:



Expansion – During this phase employment, income, industrial production, and sales all increase, and there is a rising real GDP.Peak – This is when an economic expansion hits its ceiling. It is in effect a turning point.Contraction – During this phase the elements of an expansion all begin to decrease. It becomes a recession when a significant decline in economic activity spreads across the economy.Trough – This is when an economic contraction hits its nadir.



A single business cycle is dated from peak to peak or trough to trough. Such cycles generally are not regular in length, and there can be a period of contraction during an expansion and vice versa.



Since World War II, the U.S. economy has experienced more expansions than contractions. Between 1945 and 2019, the average expansion lasted about 65 months, while the average contraction was only 11 months. However, the Great Recession, from December 2007 to June 2009, went on for 18 months. This was followed by the longest expansion on record, 128 months, lasting until 2020 and the advent of the COVID-19 pandemic.






Governments often try to stimulate economic growth by lowering interest rates, which makes money cheaper to borrow. However, that can only last for so long. Eventually, as happened in 2022, rates need to be hiked to combat price inflation and keep the economy from boiling over.


   How To Measure Economic Growth  

The most common measure of economic growth is the real GDP. This is the total value of everything, both goods and services, produced in an economy, with that value adjusted to remove the effects of inflation. There are three different methods for looking at real GDP.



Quarterly growth at an annual rate – This looks at the change in the GDP from quarter to quarter, which is then compounded into an annual rate. For example, if one quarter’s change is 0.3%, then the annual rate would be extrapolated to be 1.2%.Four-quarter or year-over-year growth rate – This compares a single quarter’s GDP from two successive years as a percentage. It is often used by businesses to offset the effects of seasonal variations.Annual average growth rate – This is the average of changes in each of the four quarters. For example, if in 2022 there were four-quarter rates of 2%, 3%, 1.5%, and 1%, the annual average growth rate for the year would be 7.5% ÷ 4 = 1.875%.






GDP, the most popular way to measure economic growth, is calculated by adding up all of the money spent by consumers, businesses, and the government in a given period. The formula is: GDP = consumer spending + business investment + government spending + net exports.



Of course, measuring the value of a commodity is tricky. Some goods and services are considered to be worth more than others. For example, a smartphone is more valuable than a pair of socks. Growth has to be measured in the value of goods and services, not just the quantity.



Another problem is that not all individuals place the same value on the same goods and services. A heater is more valuable to a resident of Alaska, while an air conditioner is more valuable to a resident of Florida. Some people value steak more than fish and vice versa. Because value is subjective, measuring for all individuals is very tricky.



The common approximation is to use the current market value. In the United States, this is measured in terms of U.S. dollars and added all together to produce aggregate measures of output including GDP.






There are alternatives to GDP. For example, the World Bank uses gross national income per capita, which includes income sent back by citizens working overseas, to measure economic growth, classify countries for analytical purposes, and determine borrowing eligibility.


   How To Generate Economic Growth  

Economic growth is dependent on the following four contributory areas:


  Increase Physical Capital Goods  

The first is an increase in the amount of physical capital goods in the economy. Adding capital to the economy tends to increase productivity of labor. Newer, better, and more tools mean that workers can produce more output per time period. For a simple example, a fisherman with a net will catch more fish per hour than a fisherman with a pointy stick. However two things are critical to this process.



Someone in the economy must first engage in some form of saving (sacrificing their current consumption) in order to free up the resources to create the new capital. In addition, the new capital must be the right type, in the right place, and at the right time for workers to actually use it productively.


  Improve Technology  

A second method of producing economic growth is technological improvement. An example of this is the invention of gasoline fuel; prior to the discovery of the energy-generating power of gasoline, the economic value of petroleum was relatively low. The use of gasoline became a better and more productive method of transporting goods in process and distributing final goods more efficiently.



Improved technology allows workers to produce more output with the same stock of capital goods by combining them in novel ways that are more productive. Like capital growth, the rate of technical growth is highly dependent on the rate of savings and investment, as they are necessary to engage in research and development (R&D).






The four factors of production are land and natural resources, labor, capital equipment, and entrepreneurship.


  Grow the Labor Force  

Another way to generate economic growth is to grow the labor force. All else being equal, more workers generate more economic goods and services. During the 19th century, a portion of the robust U.S. economic growth was due to a high influx of cheap, productive immigrant labor. However, as with capital-driven growth, there are some key conditions to this process.



Increasing the labor force necessarily increases the amount of output that must be consumed in order to provide for the basic subsistence of the new workers, so the new workers need to be at least productive enough to offset this and not be net consumers. Also, just like additions to capital, it is important for the right type of workers to flow to the right jobs in the right places in combination with the right types of complementary capital goods in order to realize their productive potential.


  Increase Human Capital  

The last method is to increase human capital. This means laborers become more accomplished at their crafts, raising their productivity through skills training, trial and error, or simply more practice. Savings, investment, and specialization are the most consistent and easily controlled methods.



Human capital in this context can also refer to social and institutional capital. Behavioral tendencies toward higher social trust and reciprocity, along with political or economic innovations such as improved protections for property rights, are types of human capital that can increase the productivity of the economy.




Why Does Economic Growth Matter?
In the simplest terms, economic growth means that more will be available to more people, which is why governments try to generate it. However, it’s not just about money, goods, and services. Politics also enter into the equation. How economic growth is used to fuel social progress matters.According to 10 years of research conducted by the United Nations University World Institute for Development Economics Research, “most countries that have shown success in reducing poverty and increasing access to public goods have based that progress on strong economic growth.” If the benefits flow only to an elite group, the growth will not be sustained.




How Do Taxes Affect Economic Growth?
Taxes affect economic growth, at least in the short term, through their impact on demand. A tax cut increases demand by raising personal disposable income and encouraging businesses to hire and invest. However, the size of the effect is dependent on the strength of the economy. If it is operating close to capacity, the effect is likely to be small. If it is operating significantly below its potential, the impact will be more pronounced. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that the effect is three times larger in the latter case than in the former.The CBO also found that tax cuts are generally not as effective in stimulating economic growth as government spending increases. That is because most of the spending boosts demand, while tax cuts boost savings as well as demand. One way to mitigate this effect is to target tax cuts to lower- and middle-income households, which are less likely to put the money into savings.




What Is Another Word or Term for Economic Growth?
Other words and terms for economic growth include “boom,” “prosperity,” “economic development,” “economic upswing,” “economic upsurge,” “industrial development,” and “buoyancy of the economy.”


   The Bottom Line  

Economic growth occurs when there is a rise in the production of goods and services for a certain period as compared with a previous one. It is generally measured in terms of GDP and is an indicator of the economic health of a country. However, how widely the fruits of the growth are shared is an important factor in its sustenance, not to mention societal health and progress.
What Is an Economic Growth Rate?  

An economic growth rate is the percentage change in the value of all of the goods and services produced in a nation during a specific period of time, as compared to an earlier period. The economic growth rate is used to measure the comparative health of an economy over time. The numbers are usually compiled and reported quarterly and annually.





Key Takeaways

In the U.S. and most other nations, the economic growth rate is the change in the nation's gross domestic product.The economic growth rate is tracked over time as an indicator of the general direction of a nation's economy.Broadly speaking, increased demand leads to increased production and a higher economic growth rate.Economic growth rate can be calculated using different measurements such as GDP, GNP, or other variations.


   Understanding Economic Growth Rate  

An economic growth rate is a measure of how well an economy is performing in terms of its overall size and productivity over a specific period, often a year or a quarter. It indicates the percentage change in the total economic output of a country during that time frame. This measurement reflects the economy's ability to produce goods and services, create jobs, and generate income for its citizens.



A positive economic growth rate signifies that the economy has expanded during the measured period. This often means the country had increased economic activity and output. This growth often leads to higher employment rates, improved living standards, and greater opportunities for businesses and individuals. Conversely, a negative economic growth rate suggests economic contraction which can lead to job losses, reduced income, and overall economic hardship.



Economic growth is a fundamental goal for most countries as it allows them to improve the well-being of their citizens and invest in various areas such as education, healthcare, and infrastructure. It is also closely monitored by policymakers, businesses, and investors to make informed decisions.


   Measuring Economic Growth Rate  

There's three popular ways of measure economic growth. First, gross domestic product (GDP) is the most common and widely used measure of economic growth. It represents the total value of all goods and services produced within a country's borders over a specific period, typically a year or a quarter.



Second, gross national product (GNP) measures the total economic output produced by a country's residents, both within the country and abroad. It includes income earned by a country's citizens and businesses from foreign investments and activities. GNP provides a broader perspective on an economy's performance, taking into account its international interactions.



Last, net domestic product (NDP) adjusts GDP for depreciation, reflecting the wear and tear on a country's capital assets. For example, consider how a country's infrastructure or major machinery wear down over time. This adjustment provides a more accurate picture of sustainable economic growth because it accounts for the need to replace or repair these assets.



It's also worth pointing out that the measurements above can also be adjusted for inflation. Real economic measurements are exclusive of inflated prices over time, while nominal terms are based on current, inflated prices.


   Calculating Economic Growth Rate  

This formula shows how an economic growth rate is calculated. Note that for this example, we'll look at GDP though the formula can be used for other types of measurements mentioned above.















Economic Growth


=





GDP


2



−



GDP


1





GDP


1


















where:
















GDP


=


Gross domestic product of nation







\begin{aligned} &\text{Economic Growth} = \frac { \text{GDP}_2 - \text{GDP}_1 }{ \text{GDP}_1 } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{GDP} = \text{Gross domestic product of nation} \\ \end{aligned}


​Economic Growth=GDP1​GDP2​−GDP1​​where:GDP=Gross domestic product of nation​
In the formula above, the numerator calculated the difference in GDP between two periods. Most often, this will be the changed in GDP in a given month, quarter, or year. Then, this difference is divided by the newest GDP calculation. Note that it is entirely possible to calculate negative economic growth. This will occur should a nation's GDP decreases from one period to the next.






In Q2 2023, the United States reported an economic growth rate of 2.1%. This not only signaled economic growth, it also represented an increased growth rate from Q1 2023 of 2.0%.


   Factors That Contribute to Economic Growth  

There are a considerable number of factors that determine the economic growth of a nation. Below are some of the most important factors, though the list is not meant to be exhaustive.


  Investment  

Investment is a cornerstone of economic growth. It includes both physical capital investment such as machinery, factories, and infrastructure and human capital investment through education and training. Physical capital investment enhances productivity, while human capital investment equips the workforce with skills



Economies with higher levels of investment typically experience higher growth rates due to increased capacity and efficiency. This is due to the expansion of activity within a country and limits of the knowledge obtained by its citizens.


  Technology  

Technological advancements are a powerful driver of economic growth. Innovation and technological progress lead to improved production processes, the development of new products and services, and increased overall productivity. Innovations like the internet, automation, and breakthroughs in healthcare have all had profound impacts on economic growth by enhancing efficiency and creating new industries and job opportunities.


  Labor Force  

As touched on under 'Investment', a skilled and growing labor force is essential for economic growth. A larger workforce can contribute to increased production capacity, while a skilled workforce enhances productivity and innovation. Investments in education and vocational training play a critical role in developing a capable labor force that can adapt to evolving industries and technologies (as discussed under the 'Innovation' section).


  Economic Policy  

Effective economic policies are crucial for maintaining economic stability and stimulating growth. This includes fiscal policies that ensure responsible management of government finances, monetary policies that maintain low and stable inflation, and regulatory efficiency that reduces barriers to business activity. Stable and predictable policy environments instill confidence in investors and businesses, encouraging long-term investments and economic expansion.






In Q2 2009, the United State's GDP was $14.381 billion. The U.S. then experienced a positive economic growth rate (in GDP) until the COVID-19 pandemic.


   Examples of Economic Growth Rates  

In July 2019, the U.S. marked an economic milestone. Its economy had been experiencing growth continuously since June 2009, making it the longest economic expansion in the nation's history. The U.S. GDP continued to grow until Q4 2019.



Then, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the U.S. GDP dropped. The U.S. experienced a negative growth rate of -0.7% in Q1 2020 and -8.8% in Q2 2020. Between then and Q2 2023, the U.S. once again experienced positive economic growth rate.



In statistics, growth rates can be relative and may not fully tell the entire story. In 2018, the U.S. economy grew by 2.9%. Some economists believe that this number represented a high point for some time to come. They were forecasting an expansion of 2.2% in 2019, and a further slowing in 2020. In this context, not only did the economic growth rate signal actual growth, it indicates the extent in which it grew compared to analyst expectation.



By contrast, the economic growth rate of India fell to 5.8% In the first quarter of 2019, the lowest growth rate in five years. Given the nation's rapid growth in recent years, there was much hand-wringing over a severe slump in industrial output and a fall-off in car sales, both factors in the lower rate.




What Is the Difference Between Real and Nominal Economic Growth?
Real economic growth adjusts GDP for inflation, providing a more accurate picture of an economy's actual expansion or contraction. Nominal growth does not consider inflation, making it less precise.




How Do External Factors Impact Economic Growth?
External factors like global economic conditions, international trade, and geopolitical events can influence a country's economic growth rates positively or negatively. Exports, for instance, can boost growth, while global recessions can hinder it.




What Are the Potential Downsides of High Economic Growth?
High economic growth, when not managed sustainably and equitably, can lead to environmental degradation, resource depletion, and social challenges. It may also exacerbate income inequality if not accompanied by inclusive policies.




What Is the Relationship Between Inflation and Economic Growth?
Moderate inflation can be a sign of a healthy, growing economy. However, high or volatile inflation can erode purchasing power, create uncertainty, and hinder economic growth by reducing consumer and investor confidence.


   The Bottom Line  

Economic growth rate measures the percentage change in a country's economy (often in GDP) over a specific period. It indicates whether an economy is expanding or contracting, serving as a critical indicator of its performance. Factors like investment, technological progress, a skilled labor force, entrepreneurship, and sound economic policies influence economic growth rates.
What Is an Economic Indicator?  

An economic indicator is a piece of economic data, usually of macroeconomic scale, that is used by analysts to interpret current or future investment possibilities. These indicators also help to judge the overall health of an economy. Economic indicators can be anything the investor chooses, but specific pieces of data released by the government and non-profit organizations have become widely followed. Such indicators include but aren't limited to the Consumer Price Index (CPI), gross domestic product (GDP), or unemployment figures.





Key Takeaways

An economic indicator is a macroeconomic measurement used by analysts to understand current and future economic activity and opportunity.The most widely-used economic indicators come from data released by the government and non-profit organizations or universities.Indicators can be leading—which tend to precede trends, lagging—which confirm trends, or coincident—that which is happening now.Indicators can also be lagging, which means they report economic circumstances but only after the circumstance has materialized.Indicators can give investors insight as to how trades may play out, though unreliability of data and inconsistence of variables may yield indicators less helpful.












Investopedia / Candra Huff


   Types of Economic Indicators  

Economic indicators can be divided into categories or groups. Most of these economic indicators have a specific schedule for release, allowing investors to prepare for and plan on seeing certain information at certain times of the month and year.


  Leading Indicators  

Leading indicators, such as the yield curve, consumer durables, net business formations, and share prices, are used to predict the future movements of an economy. The numbers or data on these financial guideposts will move or change before the economy, thus their category's name. Consideration of the information from these indicators must be taken with a grain of salt, as they can be incorrect.



Investors are most often interested in leading indicators, as a correctly placed leading indicator means certain measures correctly predicted the future. Leading indicators are prepared making broad economic assumptions. For example, many investors track forward-looking yield curves to project how future interest rates may dictate stock or bond performance. This analysis relies on historical data; based on how investments performed the last time the yield curve was a certain way, some may assume those same investments will repeat their performance.


  Coincident Indicators  

Coincident indicators, which include such things as GDP, employment levels, and retail sales, are seen with the occurrence of specific economic activities. This class of metrics shows the activity of a particular area or region. Many policymakers and economists follow this real-time data, as it provides the most insight into to what is actually happening. These types of indicators also allow for policymakers to leverage real data without delay to make informed decisions.



Coincident indicators are somewhat less helpful to investors, as the economic situation has already blossomed. As opposed to a forecast or a prediction, a coincident indicator informs investors of what is actually happening in the present. Therefore coincident indicators are only useful to those who can correctly interpret how economic conditions today (i.e. falling GDP) will impact future periods.


  Lagging Indicators  

Lagging indicators, such as gross national product (GNP), CPI, unemployment rates, and interest rates, are only seen after a specific economic activity occurs. As the name implies, these data sets show information after the event has happened. This trailing indicator is a technical indicator that comes after large economic shifts.



The problem with lagging indicators is the strategy or response to these indicators may be too late. For example, by the time the Federal Reserve interprets CPI data and decides how best to enact monetary policy to stem inflation, the numbers they are observing are slightly outdated. Though lagging indicators are still used by many governments and institutions, they also pose the risk of guiding incorrect decision-making due to incorrect assumptions about present-day economics.






Indicators provide signs along the road, but the best investors utilize many economic indicators, combining them to glean insight into patterns and verifications within multiple sets of data.


   Interpreting Economic Indicators  

An economic indicator is only useful if one interprets it correctly. History has shown strong correlations between economic growth, as measured by GDP, and corporate profit growth. However, determining whether a specific company may grow its earnings based on one indicator of GDP is nearly impossible.



There is no denying the objective importance of interest rates, gross domestic product, and existing home sales or other indexes. Why objectively important? Because what you're really measuring is the cost of money, spending, investment, and the activity level of a major portion of the overall economy.



Like many other forms of financial or economic metrics, economic indicators hold tremendous value when compared across a period of time. For example, governments may observe how unemployment rates have fluctuated over the past five years. A single instance of unemployment rates doesn't yield much value; however, comparing it to prior periods allows analysts to better gauge a statistic.



In addition, many economic indicators have a benchmark set, whether by a government agency or other entity. Consider how the Federal Reserve's target rate of inflation is usually 2%. The Federal Reserve then enacts policies based on CPI measurements to achieve this target. Without this benchmark, analysts and policymakers wouldn't know what makes a good indicator's value good or poor.


   The Stock Market As an Indicator  

Leading indicators forecast where an economy is headed. One of the top leading indicators is the stock market itself. Though not the most critical leading indicator, it’s the one that most people look at. Because stock prices factor in forward-looking performance, the market can indicate the economy’s direction, if earnings estimates are accurate.



A strong market may suggest that earnings estimates are up, which may suggest overall economic activity is up. Conversely, a down market may indicate that company earnings are expected to suffer. However, there are limitations to the usefulness of the stock market as an indicator because performance to estimates is not guaranteed, so there is a risk.



Also, stocks are subject to price manipulations caused by Wall Street traders and corporations. Manipulations can include inflating stock prices via high-volume trades, complex financial derivative strategies and creative accounting principles—both legal and illegal. The stock market is also vulnerable to the emergence of “bubbles,” which may give a false positive regarding the market’s direction.






If you're particularly interested in a specific economic indicator released monthly by the government, be aware that report is often released on the same day (i.e. second Tuesday) of every month at the same time.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Economic Indicators  
  Pros of Economic Indicators  

Economic indicators rely on data to substantiate predictions of what is to come in the future. When analyzed correctly, investors can capitalize on data to make successful trades or correctly assess future market conditions.



Economic indicators are often free and public, as the United States government prepares many economic indicators. In addition, these economic indicators reported by governments often have a fixed cadence and steady form of measurement. This means you can usually rely on the method of how an indicator was calculated and the timing of when that indicator will be released.


  Cons of Economic Indicators  

The obvious downside to economic indicators, at least leading or coincident indicators, is that they rely on some degree of forecasting. While leading indicators are projections to the future, even coincident indicators may rely on a bit of assumptions. Therefore, economic indicators do not always predict the future correctly, and the recommended action to take may not play out as expected.



Economic indicators, though boiled down to a single number, can be very complex. For example, consider all of the variables the comprise unemployment. From macroeconomic conditions to weather patterns impacting farming jobs, there may be too many levers that manipulate a given indicator that make it tough to accurately predict what will happen.



Finally, economic indicators are somewhat open to interpretation. Consider an example where inflation has dropped from 4.6% to 4.5%. Is this considered a good change, or should the drop have been larger? Economics and policymakers often debate on the appropriate approach for economic factors. Though data may be concrete, the way to interpret it may lead to various ways evaluating these indicators.




Economic Indicators Pros and Cons

Pros

May accurately forecast what is to come based on prevailing data
Often use publicly available information
May be calculated using the same process over and over (when issued by governments)
May be released on a fixed, predictable cadence



Cons

May not accurately predict the future
Relies on many assumptions, some of which may be unpredictable
Can be open for interpretation, as data may indicate different things
Still requires expertise to interpret and understand the results







What Is the Most Important Economic Indicator?
Every economist may come up with their own favorite economic indicator. For many, a country's GDP usually represents the best overall picture of a country's economic health. It combines the monetary value of every produced in an economy for a certain period, and it considers household consumption, government purchases, and imports/exports.




Is Inflation an Economic Indicator?
Yes, inflation is a lagging indicator that is reported after a rise in prices has occurred. This type of economic indicator is helpful for government agencies to set public policy, as without this type of data, they would not know the direction of the economy. Therefore, while inflation and other lagging indicators are still useful to investors, they are more useful not for the indicator themselves (as they are representative of the past) but for future policy responses.




What Are the Economic Indicators of a Strong Economy?
An economy may be strong if it has a robust amount of economic activity, and job growth. This is measured by low unemployment, steady inflation, increases to construction, positive consumer index readings, and increasing GDP.




Do Traders Use Economic Indicators?
Traders and investment professionals may use economic indicators to predict how broad economic policy will impact their trades or investment strategy. Many trades rely on technical indicators which reflect the detailed movement of specific stocks. Technical indicators are different than economic indicators as economic indicators are much more broad and less security-specific.


   The Bottom Line  

Economic indicators are leading, coincident, or lagging figures that indicate broad conditions. Economic indicators such as GDP, unemployment, inflation, or certain prices inform economics, companies, and investors of not only where the economy is today but perhaps where the economy may be headed. Economic indicators can be used to guide government policy or set investment strategies.
What Is Economic Integration?  

Economic integration is an arrangement among nations that typically includes the reduction or elimination of trade barriers and the coordination of monetary and fiscal policies. Economic integration aims to reduce costs for both consumers and producers and to increase trade between the countries involved in the agreement.



Economic integration is sometimes referred to as regional integration as it often occurs among neighboring nations.


   Economic Integration Explained  

When regional economies agree on integration, trade barriers fall and economic and political coordination increases. 



Specialists in this area define seven stages of economic integration: a preferential trading area, a free trade area, a customs union, a common market, an economic union, an economic and monetary union, and complete economic integration. The final stage represents a total harmonization of fiscal policy and a complete monetary union.





Key Takeaways

Economic integration, or regional integration, is an agreement among nations to reduce or eliminate trade barriers and agree on fiscal policies.The European Union, for example, represents a complete economic integration.Strict nationalists may oppose economic integration due to concerns over a loss of sovereignty.


  Advantages of Economic Integration  

The advantages of economic integration fall into three categories: trade creation, employment opportunities, and consensus and cooperation.



More specifically, economic integration typically leads to a reduction in the cost of trade, improved availability of goods and services and a wider selection of them, and gains in efficiency that lead to greater purchasing power.






Economic integration can reduce the costs of trade, improve the availability of goods and services, and increase consumer purchasing power in member nations.



Employment opportunities tend to improve because trade liberalization leads to market expansion, technology sharing, and cross-border investment.



Political cooperation among countries also can improve because of stronger economic ties, which provide an incentive to resolve conflicts peacefully and lead to greater stability.


  The Costs of Economic Integration  

Despite the benefits, economic integration has costs. These fall into three categories:



Diversion of trade. That is, trade can be diverted from nonmembers to members, even if it is economically detrimental for the member state.
Erosion of national sovereignty. Members of economic unions typically are required to adhere to rules on trade, monetary policy, and fiscal policies established by an unelected external policymaking body.
Employment shifts and reductions. Economic integration can cause companies to move their production operations to areas within the economic union that have cheaper labor prices. Conversely, employees may move to areas with better wages and employment opportunities.



Because economists and policymakers believe economic integration leads to significant benefits, many institutions attempt to measure the degree of economic integration across countries and regions. The methodology for measuring economic integration typically involves multiple economic indicators including trade in goods and services, cross-border capital flows, labor migration, and others. Assessing economic integration also includes measures of institutional conformity, such as membership in trade unions and the strength of institutions that protect consumer and investor rights.


   Real-World Example of Economic Integration  

The European Union (EU) was created in 1993 and included 27 member states in 2022. Since 1999, 19 of those nations have adopted the euro as a shared currency. According to data from The World Bank, the EU accounted for roughly 18% of the world's gross domestic product in 2020.



The United Kingdom voted in 2016 to leave the EU. In January 2020 British lawmakers and the European Parliament voted to accept the United Kingdom's withdrawal. The UK officially split from the EU on January 1, 2021.
What Is Economic Justice?  

Economic justice is a component of social justice and welfare economics. It is a set of moral and ethical principles for building economic institutions, where the ultimate goal is to create an opportunity for each person to establish a sufficient material foundation upon which to have a dignified, productive, and creative life.





Key Takeaways

Economic justice is the idea that the economy will be more successful if it is fairer, and that prosperity and justice go hand-in-hand rather than in opposition to one another.The goal is to create opportunities for all to thrive.Universal basic income, income equality by gender and race, equal opportunity for employment and credit, and allowing all to reach their full potential are key tenets of economic justice.


   Understanding Economic Justice  

The concept of economic justice intersects with the idea of overall economic prosperity. There is a belief that creating more opportunities for all members of society to earn viable wages will contribute to sustained economic growth. When more citizens are able to provide for themselves and maintain stable discretionary income, they are more likely to spend their earnings on goods, which in turn drives demand in the economy.



Achieving economic justice can include addressing wage gaps and other deficiencies in individual earnings. For instance, there are members of the workforce employed in jobs that do not make full use of their skills. This typically leads to workers earning wages that do not reflect the full potential of their abilities. As a result, they do not have the highest income they are capable of earning.



Such loss of possible wages creates an inefficiency in the economy because those workers will not have the income to participate to their fullest in it. If this inefficiency reaches significant magnitude—wherein large portions of the population are not purchasing goods and services they might have otherwise spent their earnings on—it can slow the economy.


   Examples of Ways To Achieve Economic Justice  

One attempt to achieve economic justice is a system of progressive taxation, wherein the tax percentage increases as the base income amount increases. The goal of progressive taxation is to remedy income inequality and provide funds for social services, public infrastructure, and education. The earned income tax credit (EITC), affordable housing, and need-based federal financial aid for college students are other examples of economic justice institutions.



Actions that could serve economic justice also include efforts to end gender-driven wage gaps and provide more thorough career preparation and education to low-income and at-risk segments of the population. Elevating wages for workers who have been earning lower wages is another proposed method of serving economic justice.



Such a strategy can be seen as a counterpoint to the idea of paying greater salaries to business executives who are associated with generating the wealth that pays the wages of others. Note that this idea doesn't operate in reverse: When the economy experiences a downturn, it is those who are among the poorest who face the most severe detriments, compared with those who are more affluent.




What Is the Goal of Economic Justice?
Economic justice strives to eliminate the inequality created by capitalism by creating equal opportunities for all members of the economy. Proponents argue that giving everyone a chance to earn a decent, fair income is good for the economy, as putting more money in pockets leads to greater spending on goods and services.




What Is the Difference Between Social Justice and Economic Justice?
Economic justice is about money and making sure everyone has an equal share. Social justice is concerned with equal rights in general for people of all social dimensions. The idea behind social justice is that all people should have equal access to wealth, health, well-being, justice, privileges, and opportunity—regardless of their legal, political, economic, or other circumstances.




Is Economic Justice Achievable?
Pure economic justice is a rarity. Many developed economies offer some form of welfare and implement a progressive taxation system to ensure that bigger earners contribute more to public finances. However, in most of these countries, inequality is still widespread. Loopholes that favor the wealthy undermine attempts to reduce inequality, and big businesses often threaten to relocate elsewhere if forced to share a greater portion of their earnings with employees.
What is Economic Life?  

Economic life is the expected period of time during which an asset remains useful to the average owner. When an asset depreciates to the point it is no longer useful to its owner, then it is said to be past its economic life. The economic life of an asset could be different than its actual physical life. Thus, an asset can be in optimal physical condition but may not be economically useful. For example, technology products often become obsolete when their technology becomes obsolete. The obsolescence of flip phones occurred due to the advent of smartphones and not because they ran out of utility.



Estimating the economic life of an asset is important for businesses so that they can determine when it's worthwhile to invest in new equipment, allocating appropriate funds to purchase replacements once the equipment's useful life is met.


   Understanding Economic Life  

The economic life of an asset under the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) requires a reasonable estimate of the time involved. Businesses can shift their measurements based on the anticipated daily usage and other factors. The concept of economic life is also connected to depreciation schedules. Accounting standard setting bodies usually set generally accepted guidelines for estimating and adjusting this time period.


   Finance and Economic Life  

Financial considerations regarding the economic life of an asset include the cost at the time of purchase, the amount of time the asset can be used in production, the time at which it will need to be replaced, and the cost of maintenance or replacement. Changes in industry standards or regulations may also be involved.



New regulations may render current equipment obsolete or raise the required industry standards for an asset beyond the specifications of a business's existing assets. Further, the economic life on one asset may be tied to the useful life of another. In cases where two separate assets are required to complete a task, the loss of one asset may render the second asset useless until the first asset is repaired or replaced.





Key Takeaways

The economic life of an asset is the period of time during which it remains useful to its owner.Financial considerations required for calculating the economic life on asset include its cost at the time of purchase, the amount of time an asset is used in production, and existing regulations pertaining to it.There may be interdependencies in the economic life of two assets in which the life of one depends on the lifespan of another.


   Economic Life and Depreciation  

Depreciation refers to the rate at which an asset deteriorates over time. The depreciation rate is used to estimate the effects of aging, daily use, and wear and tear on the asset. When related to technology, depreciation can also include the risk of obsolescence.



In theory, businesses recognize depreciation expenses on a schedule that approximates the rate at which economic life is used up. This is not always true for tax purposes, however, as owners may have superior information about specific assets. The economic life used in internal calculations may differ significantly from the depreciable life required for tax purposes.



Many businesses evaluate depreciation expenses differently based on management's goals. For example, a business might want to recognize costs as quickly as possible in order to minimize current tax liabilities and may do this by choosing accelerated depreciation schedules.
What Is an Economic Moat?  

The term "economic moat," popularized by Warren Buffett, refers to a business's ability to maintain competitive advantages over its competitors in order to protect its long-term profits and market share. Just like a medieval castle, the moat serves to protect those inside the fortress and their riches from outsiders.





Key Takeaways

"Economic moat" is a term that refers to a business's ability to maintain a competitive edge over its competitors.The analogy relates to the moats that would surround medieval castles and act as a barrier of protection.Ways in which a company can create an economic moat include creating advantages in size, intangibles, cost, and high switching costs.The term economic moat was made popular by legendary investor Warren Buffett.


   Understanding Economic Moats  

Remember that a competitive advantage is essentially any factor that allows a company to provide a good or service that is similar to those offered by its competitors and, at the same time, outperform those competitors in profits.



A good example of a competitive advantage would be a low-cost advantage, such as cheap access to raw materials. Very successful investors such as Buffett have been adept at finding companies with solid economic moats but relatively low share prices.



One of the basic tenets of modern economics, however, is that, given time, competition will erode any competitive advantages enjoyed by a firm.



This effect occurs because once a firm establishes competitive advantages, its superior operations generate boosted profits for itself, thus providing a strong incentive for competing firms to duplicate the methods of the leading firm or find even better operating methods.


   Example of an Economic Moat  

Let's return to the example of a low-cost advantage. Suppose you have decided to make your fortune by running a lemonade stand. You realize that if you buy your lemons in bulk once a week instead of every morning, you can reduce your expenses by 30%, allowing you to undercut the prices of competing lemonade stands.



Your low prices lead to an increase in the number of customers buying lemonade from you (and not from your competitors).



As a result, you see an increase in profits; however, it probably wouldn't take very long for your competitors to notice your method and employ it themselves. Therefore, in a short period of time, your large profits would erode, and the local lemonade industry would return to normal conditions again.






Other common financial analogies include referring to the stock market as a casino, bonds being the anchor of a portfolio, and having no financial plan is like skydiving without a parachute.



However, suppose you develop and patent a juicing technology that allows you to get 30% more juice out of the average lemon. This would have the same effect of reducing your average cost per glass of lemonade.



This time, your competitors will have no way of duplicating your methods, as your competitive advantage is protected by your patent. In this example, your economic moat is the patent that you hold on your proprietary technology. In this case, if your lemonade company was a public firm, your common stock would probably outperform that of your competition in the long run.



As you can see, a company's economic moat represents a qualitative measurement of its ability to keep competitors at bay for an extended period of time. This translates into prolonged profits in the future.



Economic moats are difficult to express quantitatively because they have no obvious dollar value, but are a vital qualitative factor in a company's long-term success or failure and in the selection of stocks.


   Creating an Economic Moat  

There are several ways in which a company creates an economic moat that allows it to have a significant advantage over its competitors. Below, we will explore some different ways in which moats are created.


  Cost Advantage   

As discussed in the lemonade stand example, a cost advantage that competitors cannot replicate can be a very effective economic moat.



Companies with significant cost advantages can undercut the prices of any competitor that attempts to move into their industry, either forcing the competitor to leave the industry or at least impeding its growth.



Companies with sustainable cost advantages can maintain a very large market share of their industry by squeezing out any new competitors who try to move in.


  Size Advantage  

Being big can sometimes, in itself, create an economic moat for a company. At a certain size, a firm achieves economies of scale. This is when more units of a good or service can be produced on a larger scale with lower input costs. This reduces overhead costs in areas such as financing, advertising, production, etc.



Large companies that compete in a given industry tend to dominate the core market share of that industry, while smaller players are forced to either leave the industry or occupy smaller "niche" roles.


  High Switching Costs   

Being the big fish in the pond has other advantages. When a company is able to establish itself in an industry, suppliers and customers can be subject to high switching costs should they choose to do business with a new competitor. Competitors have a very difficult time taking market share away from the industry leader because of these cumbersome switching costs.


  Intangibles   

Another type of economic moat can be created through a firm's intangible assets, which include items such as patents, brand recognition, government licenses, and others. Strong brand name recognition allows these types of companies to charge a premium for their products over other competitors' goods, which boosts profits.


  Soft Moats   

Some of the reasons a company might have an economic moat are more difficult to identify. For example, soft moats may be created by exceptional management or a unique corporate culture. While difficult to describe, a unique leadership and corporate environment may partially contribute to a corporation's prolonged economic success. 



Economic moats are generally difficult to pinpoint at the time they are being created. Their effects are much more easily observed in hindsight once a company has risen to great heights.



From an investor's view, it is ideal to invest in growing companies just as they begin to reap the benefits of a wide and sustainable economic moat. In this case, the most important factor is the longevity of the moat. The longer a company can harvest profits, the greater the benefits for itself and its shareholders.




What Is an Example of an Economic Moat?
One example of an economic moat is economies of scale. As a company achieves economies of scale, it can produce each unit for less than it could before, meaning that it can charge less for that product in the marketplace, which would attract customers and undercut competitors.




What Are Some Ways to Identify an Economic Moat?
When evaluating a company and its economic moat, a few questions should be considered, such as, what are the sources of revenue for the company?; of these sources, which is the cash cow?; what is the industry of the company?; who are the competitors in this industry?; and what is the company doing to stand out out from its competitors?




What Is Apple's Economic Moat?
Apple has a few economic moats, the primary one being creating products that did not exist before, such as the iPod, the iPhone, and the iPad. After the creation of those products, Apple's economic moat has consisted of its marketing, its design, and its user-friendly interface.


   The Bottom Line  

An economic moat is a metaphor that refers to businesses being able to maintain a competitive advantage over their competitors in order to preserve market share and profits. Any method that a company uses to maintain a competitive edge can be considered an economic moat.
What Is Economic Order Quantity?  

Economic order quantity (EOQ) is the ideal quantity of units a company should purchase to meet demand while minimizing inventory costs such as holding costs, shortage costs, and order costs. This production-scheduling model was developed in 1913 by Ford W. Harris and has been refined over time. The economic order quantity formula assumes that demand, ordering, and holding costs all remain constant.





Key Takeaways

The economic order quantity (EOQ) is a company's optimal order quantity that meets demand while minimizing its total costs related to ordering, receiving, and holding inventory.The EOQ formula is best applied in situations where demand, ordering, and holding costs remain constant over time.One of the important limitations of the economic order quantity is that it assumes the demand for the company’s products is constant over time.












Investopedia / Jessica Olah


   Formula for Calculating Economic Order Quantity (EOQ)  

The formula for EOQ is:


















Q


=





2


D


S



H


















where:
















Q


=


EOQ units
















D


=


Demand in units (typically on an annual basis)
















S


=


Order cost (per purchase order)
















H


=


Holding costs (per unit, per year)







\begin{aligned} &Q = \sqrt{ \frac{2DS}{H} }\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &Q=\text{EOQ units}\\ &D=\text{Demand in units (typically on an annual basis)}\\ &S=\text{Order cost (per purchase order)}\\ &H=\text{Holding costs (per unit, per year)}\\ \end{aligned}


​Q=H2DS​​where:Q=EOQ unitsD=Demand in units (typically on an annual basis)S=Order cost (per purchase order)H=Holding costs (per unit, per year)​


   What the Economic Order Quantity Can Tell You  

The goal of the EOQ formula is to identify the optimal number of product units to order. If achieved, a company can minimize its costs for buying, delivering, and storing units. The EOQ formula can be modified to determine different production levels or order intervals, and corporations with large supply chains and high variable costs use an algorithm in their computer software to determine EOQ.



EOQ is an important cash flow tool. The formula can help a company control the amount of cash tied up in the inventory balance. For many companies, inventory is its largest asset other than its human resources, and these businesses must carry sufficient inventory to meet the needs of customers. If EOQ can help minimize the level of inventory, the cash savings can be used for some other business purpose or investment.



The EOQ formula determines the inventory reorder point of a company. When inventory falls to a certain level, the EOQ formula, if applied to business processes, triggers the need to place an order for more units. By determining a reorder point, the business avoids running out of inventory and can continue to fill customer orders. If the company runs out of inventory, there is a shortage cost, which is the revenue lost because the company has insufficient inventory to fill an order. An inventory shortage may also mean the company loses the customer or the client will order less in the future.


   Example of How to Use EOQ  

EOQ takes into account the timing of reordering, the cost incurred to place an order, and the cost to store merchandise. If a company is constantly placing small orders to maintain a specific inventory level, the ordering costs are higher, and there is a need for additional storage space.



Assume, for example, a retail clothing shop carries a line of men’s jeans, and the shop sells 1,000 pairs of jeans each year. It costs the company $5 per year to hold a pair of jeans in inventory, and the fixed cost to place an order is $2.



The EOQ formula is the square root of (2 x 1,000 pairs x $2 order cost) / ($5 holding cost) or 28.3 with rounding. The ideal order size to minimize costs and meet customer demand is slightly more than 28 pairs of jeans. A more complex portion of the EOQ formula provides the reorder point.


   Limitations of EOQ  

The EOQ formula assumes that consumer demand is constant. The calculation also assumes that both ordering and holding costs remain constant. This fact makes it difficult or impossible for the formula to account for business events such as changing consumer demand, seasonal changes in inventory costs, lost sales revenue due to inventory shortages, or purchase discounts a company might realize for buying inventory in larger quantities.


  Frequently Asked Questions  


How Is Economic Order Quantity Calculated?
Economic order quantity is an inventory management technique that helps make efficient inventory management decisions. It refers to the optimal amount of inventory a company should purchase in order to meet its demand while minimizing its holding and storage costs. One of the important limitations of the economic order quantity is that it assumes the demand for the company’s products is constant over time.




How Does Economic Order Quantity Work?
Economic order quantity will be higher if the company’s setup costs or product demand increases. On the other hand, it will be lower if the company’s holding costs increase.




Why Is Economic Order Quantity Important?
Economic order quantity is important because it helps companies manage their inventory efficiently. Without inventory management techniques such as these, companies will tend to hold too much inventory during periods of low demand while also holding too little inventory during periods of high demand. Either problem creates missed opportunities.
What Is Economic Profit?  

An economic profit is the difference between the revenue received from sales and the explicit costs of producing its goods and services, as well as any opportunity costs. 



Opportunity costs are a type of implicit cost determined by management and will vary based on different scenarios and perspectives.





Key Takeaways

Economic profit is the financial amount that remains after subtracting both explicit costs and opportunity costs from revenue.Opportunity costs are the profits that a business misses out on when choosing to pursue one business venture over another.Economic profit is used for internal analysis and is not required for transparent disclosure.Accounting profit is straightforward and precise: revenue minus explicit costs.While theoretical, economic profit computations can help a company size up and choose between potential business ventures.












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   Understanding Economic Profit  

Economic profit is often analyzed in conjunction with accounting profit. Accounting profit is the profit that a company shows on its income statement. It is also known as "net income."



Accounting profit measures actual money inflows versus money outflows and is part of the required financial reporting and transparency of a company.



Economic profit, on the other hand, is not recorded on a company’s financial statements, nor is it required to be disclosed to regulators, investors, or financial institutions.



Economic profit can be used in a "what if" analysis. Companies and individuals may choose to consider economic profit when they are faced with choices involving production levels or other business alternatives. Economic profit can provide a proxy for foregone profit considerations.


  How to Calculate Economic Profit  

The calculation for economic profit can vary by entity and scenario. In general, it can be captured as follows:



Economic profit = revenues - explicit costs - opportunity costs



If you excluded the opportunity costs from this equation, you'd get simply the accounting profit. However, when you subtract the opportunity costs as well, the economic profit results. It can serve as a comparison to other options that could have been undertaken by a company, for better or worse.



Companies state their explicit costs on the income statement. The accounting profit on the bottom line of the income statement is the net income after subtracting for direct, indirect, and capital costs.



The cost of goods sold is the most basic explicit cost used in analyzing per-unit costs. Thus, in the equation above, a company could also break down its opportunity costs by units to arrive at a per-unit economic profit.



Individuals starting their own business might use economic profit as a proxy for their first year of business (since they have given up some prior opportunity). With large entities, business managers can potentially look more intricately at gross, operating, and net profit versus economic profit at different phases of the business operations.


   Economic Profit vs. Accounting Profit  

Accounting profit, or net income, is determined by subtracting all costs from revenue for a particular accounting period. Economic profit is determined by going a step further and subtracting opportunity costs, as well. The former represents an actual figure that's included on financial statements. The latter can be used by company management to determine how effective its business decisions were. It can also be used before actions are taken to decide on the best business strategy to put to work.



Here's a quick reference chart that summarizes the differences between economic profit and accounting profit.









Economic Profit 
Accounting Profit




A theoretical financial figure based on assumptions
Actual profit (net income) is determined


Isn't part of financial statements or reported
Calculated according to GAAP and reported to IRS


Used for internal analysis 
Used by investors to analyze a potential investment


Illuminates for management the wisdom of various business options
Provides insight into how well management is running company  


Can reveal how efficiently a company uses its resources
Is used to calculate investors' earnings per share





   Advantages and Disadvantages of Economic Profit  
  Advantages  

Economic profit figures can be helpful for business decision-making. By studying the effect on net income of subtracting not just explicit costs but the estimated costs of giving up potential business opportunities, companies can size up the wisdom of business ventures from high to low before launching one or more.Economic profit can also be reviewed after the fact. Lessons can be learned about the choices that were made.Economic profit can show management how efficiently the company has been using its resources.


  Disadvantages  

The economic profit figure is theoretical because opportunity costs are based on assumptions. Since the opportunity wasn't taken, a company doesn't know the exact amount of revenue that might have been made.The calculation of economic profit over the short-term can lead to inappropriate conclusions about the business option chosen. That's because short-term losses can be inevitable before expected long-term profitability. It's smarter to analyze economic profits over long-term time periods.


   Special Considerations  
  Opportunity Costs  

Opportunity costs can be used for deeper analysis of business decisions, specifically when alternatives are available. Companies may look at opportunity costs when considering production levels for different types of products that they produce collectively but in varying quantities.



Opportunity costs are somewhat arbitrary and are a type of implicit cost. They can vary depending on management’s estimations and market circumstances. Generally, opportunity cost will be the accounting profit that could have been achieved by making an alternative choice.


   Examples of Economic Profit  

An individual starts a business and incurs startup costs of $100,000. During the first year of operation, the business earns revenue of $120,000. This results in an accounting profit of $20,000. However, if the individual had stayed at her previous job, she would have made $45,000. In this example, the individual’s economic profit is equal to:



$120,000 - $100,000 - $45,000 = ($25,000)



This calculation only considers the first year of business. If after the first year, costs decrease to $10,000 then the economic profit outlook would improve for future years. If economic profit comes out to zero, the company is said to be in a state of "normal profit."



In using economic profit in comparison to gross profit, a company may look at different types of scenarios. In this case, gross profit is the focus, and a company would subtract the opportunity cost per unit:



Economic profit = revenue per unit - COGS per unit - unit opportunity cost



If a company generates $10 per unit from selling t-shirts with a $5 cost per unit, then its gross profit per unit for t-shirts is $5. However, if it could have produced shorts with revenue of $10 and costs of $2 then there would be an opportunity cost of $8 as well:



$10 - $5 - $8 = ($3)



All things being equal, the company could have earned $3 more per unit if they had produced shorts instead of t-shirts. Thus, the -$3 per unit is considered an economic loss.



Companies can use this type of analysis to decide on production levels. More complex scenario analysis of profits may also factor in indirect costs or other types of implicit costs, depending on the expenditures involved in doing business as well as different phases of a business cycle.




What Are Economic Profits?
Economic profits are the theoretical profits that result when company management subtracts all expenses plus the costs of lost opportunities from revenue earned in a particular period of time.




Why Is Economic Profit Important?
It can be important because it can help a company's management understand potential flaws in its choices for business strategies or ventures, missed financial opportunities, and how efficiently it uses company resources.




What Is an Opportunity Cost?
It's the cost to an individual or company of not pursuing a particular business option. The cost isn't related to something they spend. It refers to money they forego.


   The Bottom Line  

Economic profit represents a company's revenue less its explicit costs as well as its opportunity costs. It's used for internal analysis. Accounting profit (net income) is a company's revenue less its direct, indirect, and capital costs. It's reported on financial statements and to the IRS.



Economic profit is important for the insight that it can give the management of a company about potential or past business opportunities. Accounting profit is an important measure of profitability and management capability for investors.
What Is an Economic Recovery?  

Economic recovery is the business cycle stage following a recession that is characterized by a sustained period of improving business activity. Normally, during an economic recovery, gross domestic product (GDP) grows, incomes rise, and unemployment falls as the economy rebounds.



During an economic recovery, the economy undergoes a process of adaptation and adjustment to new conditions, including the factors that triggered the recession in the first place and the new policies and rules implemented by governments and central banks in response to the recession.



The labor, capital goods, and other productive resources that were tied up in businesses that failed and went under during the recession are re-employed in new activities as unemployed workers find new jobs and failed firms are bought up or divided up by others. Recovery is an economy healing itself from the damage done, and it sets the stage for a new expansion. 





Key Takeaways

Economic recovery is the process of reallocating resources and workers from failed businesses and investments to new jobs and uses after a recession.An economic recovery follows after the recession and leads into a new expansionary business cycle phase.Leading indicators—such as the stock market, retail sales, and business startups—often rise ahead of an economic recovery.Government policies can sometimes help or interfere with the economic recovery process. During an economic recovery, central banks may enact monetary policies aimed at increasing the money supply and encouraging lending.


   Understanding an Economic Recovery  

Market economies experience ups and downs for several reasons. Economies can be impacted by all kinds of factors, including revolutions, financial crises, and global influences. Sometimes these shifts in markets can take on a pattern that can be thought of as a kind of wave or cycle, with distinct stages of an expansion or boom, a peak leading to some economic crisis, a recession, and subsequent recovery.



An economic recovery occurs after a recession as the economy adjusts and recovers some of the gains lost during the recession. The economy then eventually transitions to a true expansion when growth accelerates and GDP starts moving toward a new peak.



Not every period of slow growth or even contraction is severe enough to be designated as a recession. In the United States, the most common rule of thumb for a recession is if there are two consecutive quarters of negative GDP growth.


   The Process of Recovery  

During a recession, many businesses fail and go out of business, and many of those that survive cut back activities to reduce costs in the face of decreased demand for their output. Workers often get laid off and business assets get sold piecemeal. Sometimes business owners are forced to liquidate an entire business.



Some of these capital assets end up in the hands of other businesses, sometimes even brand new businesses, that can put them to productive use. Sometimes these are very similar to their previous uses, and sometimes these are totally new lines of business. This process of sorting capital goods into new combinations, under new ownership, at new prices after they have been released from failed businesses or business cutbacks in the recession, is the essence of economic recovery.



As entrepreneurs re-organize productive labor and capital into new businesses and activities, they must account for changes in the economy that have occurred. In some business cycles, real economic shocks have helped trigger the recession, such as the oil price spikes of the 1970s and 2008.



Businesses usually need to deal with a leaner credit environment relative to the easy credit days of the boom that preceded the recession. They may need to implement new technologies and organizational forms. Almost always, the government fiscal and regulatory environment that businesses operate under changes from the boom to the recession and recovery.



In the end, the recovery can change the patterns of economic activity in an economy, sometimes drastically and sometimes in barely noticeable ways. The economy heals the damage during the preceding parts of the business cycle by reallocating, reusing, and recycling resources into new uses, in an analogous way to how the body breaks down dead and damaged tissue in order to produce new, healthy cells and tissues after an injury.



Importantly, in order for the process of recovery to proceed, it is critical that the business and investment liquidations of the recession are carried out and the resources tied up in them are allowed to flow to new uses and new businesses. 



Eventually, this process of recovery leads to a new phase of growth and expansion once resources have been mostly or fully reallocated across the economy.






Economists will often create charts that measure different components of an economic recovery, such as GDP and employment rates. These recovery charts are named after the shape they form, such as a V-shaped, W-shaped, or K-shaped recovery.


   Indicators of Recovery  

Economists often play a big part in defining an economy’s business cycle phase as well as the stages of economic growth or contraction it may be experiencing. To assess the economy, economists look at both leading and lagging economic indicators in their analysis.



Leading indicators can be things such as the stock market, which often rises ahead of an economic recovery. This is usually because future expectations drive stock prices. On the other hand, employment is typically somewhat of a lagging indicator. Unemployment often remains high even as the economy begins to recover because many employers will not hire additional personnel until they are reasonably confident there is a long-term need for new hiring.



GDP is usually the key indicator of an economic phase. Two quarters of consecutive negative GDP growth indicates a recession. Other economic indicators for consideration can include consumer confidence and inflation.


   Special Considerations  

Fiscal and monetary policy actions taken by regulators are often guided by an economy’s business cycle. With the onset of a recession, these policies are generally aimed at helping businesses, investors, and workers who have been impacted. Governments may implement direct assistance and they may stimulate demand by easing interest rates to encourage lending. They may provide funding aimed at propping up threatened financial institutions.   



Unfortunately, these policies can also have the effect of delaying the recovery by preventing the liquidation of failing businesses. These policies may encourage businesses and workers to not adjust the prices and arrangements of business ventures and employment conditions to the new realities revealed by the recession.



Similarly, propping up business arrangements, investments, and institutions that do not reflect economic reality delays the process of reallocation of resources to new uses, new owners, and new jobs for unemployed workers. It can also do permanent damage to society by encouraging people and businesses to continue to destroy capital and waste real resources by engaging in economic activities that are not profitable or efficient under the new economic conditions.





28 Years

The longest recovery and expansion period on record is held by the economy of Australia.


   Examples of Economic Recovery  

A recovery and expansion period can last for years. The economic recovery from the 2008 financial crisis and recession began in June 2009. Real GDP had contracted by 5.5% in the first quarter of 2009 and another 0.7% in the second quarter. The economy showed signs of recovery by the third and fourth quarters of 2009. The Dow Jones Industrial Average, a popular proxy for economic performance and a leading indicator, had already been rising for four months after bottoming out in February 2009.



In July 2020, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) reported a record timeframe for recovery and expansion over the next 10 years. In the wake of the massive disruption to supply chains, closures of businesses, and lay-offs of workers due to the public health mandates and social distancing orders, the CBO projects the economy will rebound at a modest pace with a projected real GDP growth of 2.2% for the U.S. in 2024.
What Was the Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981?  

The Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981 (ERTA) was the largest tax cut in U.S. history. Signed by President Ronald Reagan about six months after he took office, ERTA slashed the top income tax rate and allowed for faster expensing of depreciable assets. It included incentives for small business and retirement savings, and established inflation indexing of tax brackets.





Key Takeaways

Signed by Ronald Reagan during his first year in office, the Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981 was the largest tax cut in U.S. history.The ERTA slashed the highest income tax bracket from 70% to 50%.Combined with increased military spending, the ERTA contributed to soaring U.S. public debt, which tripled in Reagan's time in office.


   Understanding the Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981  

ERTA was also known as the Kemp-Roth tax cut after its Republican sponsors, Representative Jack Kemp of New York and Senator William V. Roth of Delaware. The biggest tax cuts were for wealthy Americans, with the top rate cut from 70% to 50% over three years. The bottom bracket was cut from 14% to 11%.



Besides tax cuts and accelerated depreciation deductions, other features of the legislation included easier rules for establishing employee stock ownership plans (ESOP); expanded eligibility for Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs); a reduction in the capital-gains tax from 28% to 20%; and a higher estate-tax exemption. The indexing of tax brackets was a key provision given the era’s double-digit annual inflation, which was pushing even lower- and middle-class families into higher brackets.


   ERTA Inspired By Supply-Side Economics  

The bill was inspired by supply-side theories of economics advanced by economist and Reagan adviser Arthur Laffer. The basic idea was that cutting taxes on the wealthy would spur more capital investment and innovation, with the benefits “trickling down” to average citizens through job growth and increased consumer spending. In return, tax revenues would rise as the economy boomed.



But ERTA did not immediately jumpstart the economy as proponents expected. Business capital investment remained anemic, unemployment stayed high, and consumer spending did not increase. Meanwhile, in the year after the bill’s passage, the federal deficit spiked due to the drastic decline in tax revenue.


   Congress Blunts ERTA a Year Later  

By the time ERTA became law, the second half of the "double-dip" recession was beginning in the U.S., partly because Federal Reserve Chair Paul Volcker was determined to quash inflation, with the benchmark interest rate as high as 20%. With the economy tanking and tax revenue sinking, the U.S. deficit began to soar. An alarmed Congress responded by reversing some of the provisions in the ERTA in September of 1982 with the Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act, led by Senate Finance Committee chair Robert Dole. Recovery began almost immediately.



The ERTA remains controversial. Growth did rebound in the mid- and late 1980s, and proponents cited the tax cuts as the reason why. Although it is unlikely to be the final word, in 2012 the non-partisan Congressional Research Service analyzed tax rates and their economic effects from 1940 to 2010 and concluded that lowering top tax rates has no effect on economic growth or productivity, but does contribute to greater wealth inequality. Under Reagan, the U.S. national debt tripled to $2.6 trillion.
What Is Economic Rent?  

Economic rent is an amount of money earned that exceeds that which is economically or socially necessary. This can occur, for example, when a buyer working to attain a good or service that is considered exclusive makes an offer prior to hearing what a seller considers an acceptable price. Market imperfections thus lead to the rise of economic rent; it would not exist if markets were perfect, since competitive pressures would drive down prices.





Key Takeaways

Economic rent is an amount of money earned that exceeds that which is economically or socially necessary.Market inefficiencies or information asymmetries are usually responsible for creating economic rent.Generally, economic rent is considered unearned.Economic rent can appear in several contexts, including labor markets, real estate, and monopolies.


   Understanding Economic Rent  

Economic rent should not be confused with normal profit or surplus that arises in the course of competitive capitalist production. This term also differs from the traditional use of the word “rent,” which applies to payments received in exchange for the temporary use of a particular good or property, such as land or housing.



Economic rent can also occur when certain producers in a competitive market have asymmetric information or technologically advanced production systems give them a competitive advantage as a low-cost producer that other firms lack or are not capable of acquiring.



Competitive advantages built up over time due to economic rent can often lead to a lack of competition and entrenched ways of doing business. Updating rules and regulations are often looked to by governments, and by associated agencies, as a reliable method for reducing economic rent and promoting healthy competition.



On Oct. 5, 2021, the testimony of Gary Gensler, the current chair of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), before the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs espoused the qualities of the U.S. financial system that make it a world leader. He went on to note that updates to SEC rules are needed to keep up with changes in technology and to ensure that the markets are as efficient and competitive as possible. Gensler’s testimony clearly highlights the strive for balance between current levels of American competitiveness and the desire to reduce economic rent.



Economic rent can also arise from conditions of scarcity and can be used to demonstrate numerous pricing discrepancies. These include higher pay for unionized workers compared with nonunionized workers, or huge salaries made by a star athlete vs. an average working individual.



Economic rent also explains the high value of exclusive intangible assets, such as patents and permits. Together, these are also known as scarcity rents.


   Economic Rent and Labor  

A worker may be willing to work for $15 per hour, but because they belong to a union, they receive $18 per hour for the same job. The difference of $3 is the worker’s economic rent, which can also be referred to as unearned income.



In this regard, unearned income refers to the amount offered that is above what the employee felt that their skills and abilities were worth in the current marketplace. It can also apply when a person’s skills would be valued less in an open market, but they receive more due to an affiliation with a group, such as a union, that sets minimum standards of pay.


   Economic Rent and Facilities  

As another example, the owner of a property in an exclusive shopping mall may be willing to rent it out for $10,000 per month, but a company that is keen to have a retail storefront in the mall may offer $12,000 as monthly rent for the property to secure it and forestall competition. The difference of $2,000, in this case, is the owner’s economic rent.



It can also refer to a situation in which two properties exist with the exact same features except for location. If one location is preferable to another, then the owner of the preferred location receives a higher payment than the other without having to complete any additional work. The lack of additional labor on the part of the owner can also be considered unearned income.


   Other Economic Rent Forms  

Other forms of economic rent include information asymmetries, in which an agent derives excess profits from having information not provided to the principal or the rest of the market.


  Contract Rent  

Contract rent refers to a situation wherein there is a mutually agreed-upon deal between two parties but external conditions change over time, granting one party unequal benefit, usually at the expense of the other party.


  Monopoly Rent  

Monopoly rent refers to the situation in which a monopoly producer lacks competition and thus can sell its goods and services at a price far above what the otherwise competitive market price would be, at the expense of consumers.


  Differential Rent  

Differential rent refers to the excess profit that may arise owing to differences in the fertility of the land. The surplus that arises due to the difference between marginal land and intramarginal land is the differential rent. It is generally accrued under conditions of extensive land cultivation.



Differential ground rent was first proposed by the classical political economist David Ricardo.
What Is an Economic Shock?  

An economic shock refers to any change to fundamental macroeconomic variables or relationships that has a substantial effect on macroeconomic outcomes and measures of economic performance, such as unemployment, consumption, and inflation. Shocks are often unpredictable and are usually the result of events thought to be beyond the scope of normal economic transactions.



Economic shocks have widespread and lasting effects on the economy, and, according to real business cycle theory (RBC), are thought to be the root cause of recessions and economic cycles.





Key Takeaways

Economic shocks are random, unpredictable events that have a widespread impact on the economy and are caused by things outside the scope of economic models. Economic shocks can be classified by the economic sector that they originate from or by whether they primarily influence either supply or demand.Because markets are connected, the effects of shocks can move through the economy to many markets and have a major macroeconomic impact, for better or worse. 


   Understanding Economic Shocks  

Economic shocks can be classified as primarily impacting the economy through either the supply or demand side. They can also be classified by their origin within or impact upon a specific sector of the economy. Finally, shocks can be considered either real or nominal shocks, depending on whether they originate from changes in real economic activity or changes in the nominal values of financial variables.



Because markets and industries are interconnected in the economy, large shocks to either supply or demand in any sector of the economy can have a far-reaching macroeconomic impact. Economic shocks can be positive (helpful) or negative (harmful) to the economy, though for the most part economists, and normal people, are more concerned about negative shocks. 


   Types of Economic Shocks  
  Supply Shocks  

A supply shock is an event that makes production across the economy more difficult, more costly, or impossible for at least some industries. A rise in the cost of important commodities such as oil can cause fuel prices to skyrocket, making it expensive to use for business purposes.



Natural disasters or weather events, such as hurricanes, floods, or major earthquakes, can induce supply shocks, too, as can man-made events such as wars or major terrorism incidents. Economists sometimes refer to most supply-side shocks as "technological shocks."


  Demand Shocks  

Demand shocks happen when there is a sudden and considerable shift in the patterns of private spending, either in the form of consumer spending or investment spending from businesses. An economic downturn in the economy of a major export market can create a negative shock to business investment, particularly in export industries.



A crash in stock or home prices can cause a negative demand shock as households react to a loss of wealth by cutting back sharply on consumption spending. Supply shocks to consumer commodities with price inelastic demand, such as food and energy, can also lead to a demand shock by reducing consumers' real incomes. Economists sometimes refer to demand-side shocks as "non-technological shocks."


  Financial Shocks  

A financial shock is one that originates from the financial sector of the economy. Because modern economies are so deeply dependent on the flow of liquidity and credit to fund normal operations and payrolls, financial shocks can impact every industry in an economy.



A stock market crash, a liquidity crisis in the banking system, unpredictable changes in monetary policy, or the rapid devaluation of a currency would be examples of financial shocks. Financial shocks are the primary form of nominal shocks, though their effects clearly can have a serious impact on real economic activity.


  Policy Shocks  

Policy shocks are changes in government policy that have a profound economic effect. The economic impact of a policy shock might even be the goal of a government action. It could be an expected side effect or an entirely unintended consequence as well.



Fiscal policy is, in effect, a deliberate economic demand shock, positive or negative, intended to smooth out aggregate demand over time. The imposition of tariffs and other barriers to trade can create a positive shock for domestic industries but a negative shock to domestic consumers. Sometimes even a potential change in policy or an increase in uncertainty about future policy can create an economic shock before or without an actual policy change.


  Technology Shocks  

A technology shock results from technological developments that affect productivity. The introduction of computers and internet technology and the resulting increase in productivity across many different occupations is an example of a positive technology shock.



Economists often use the term technology in a much broader sense, so that many of the above examples of economic shocks, such as a rise in energy prices, would also fall under the category of technology shocks. However, people also often refer to shocks specifically originating from the technology sector as technology shocks.
Economic stimulus is action by the government to encourage private sector economic activity. To stimulate the economy, the government adopts targeted, expansionary policies.



Economic stimulus in the United States may be related to monetary policy carried out by the Federal Reserve. Other forms of economic stimulus are driven by fiscal policy, with lawmakers directing tax policies and government spending toward areas that they believe will jump-start the economy.



Policy tools for implementing economic stimulus include lowering interest rates, increasing government spending, and the purchase of assets by the central bank in a process known as quantitative easing. It is common for the government to adopt stimulus policies during times of recession, but economic stimulus may also be used to provide an additional boost during periods of economic strength.



Although the long-term benefits of such policies remain a subject of debate, the programs put in place to bolster the economy can have a big impact on financial markets and investors. This makes it important to be aware of the mechanisms of economic stimulus as well as the associated benefits and risks.





Key Takeaways

Economic stimulus refers to targeted fiscal and monetary policy intended to elicit an economic response from the private sector.Economic stimulus relies on encouraging private sector spending to make up for loss of aggregate demand.Fiscal stimulus measures include deficit spending and lowering taxes. Monetary stimulus measures are produced by central banks and may include lowering interest rates.Economists still argue over the usefulness of coordinated economic stimulus, with some claiming that it can do more long-term harm than short-term good.







Understanding The Debt Ceiling


   How Economic Stimulus Works  

Over the course of a normal business cycle, governments try to influence the pace and composition of economic growth using various tools at their disposal. Central governments, including the U.S. federal government, use fiscal and monetary policy tools to stimulate growth. State and local governments can also engage in projects or policies that stimulate private sector investment.



Economic stimulus refers to a targeted and conservative approach to expansionary economic policy. Instead of using monetary and fiscal policy to replace private sector spending, economic stimulus is supposed to direct government deficit spending, tax cuts, lowered interest rates, or new credit creation toward key sectors of the economy to take advantage of powerful multiplier effects that will indirectly increase private sector consumption and investment spending.



Proponents of economic stimulus believe that this increased private sector spending will then boost the economy out of recession. The goal is to achieve this stimulus-response effect so that the private sector can do most of the work to fight the recession and to avoid risks such as hyperinflation or government defaults that might come with massive government deficits or extreme monetary policy. By stimulating private sector growth, stimulus deficit spending could allegedly even pay for itself through higher tax revenues resulting from faster growth.


  Fiscal Stimulus vs. Monetary Stimulus  

Fiscal stimulus refers to policy measures undertaken by a government that typically reduce taxes or regulations—or increase government spending—to boost economic activity. Monetary stimulus, on the other hand, refers to central bank actions, such as lowering interest rates or purchasing securities in the market, to make it easier or cheaper to borrow and invest. A stimulus package is a coordinated combination of fiscal and monetary measures put together by a government to stimulate a floundering economy.






The concept of economic stimulus is associated with 20th century economist John Maynard Keynes. A recession, according to Keynesian economics, is a deficiency of aggregate demand where the economy will not self-correct and reaches a new equilibrium with higher unemployment, lower output, and slower growth rates. Under this theory, to combat recession, the government should aim to restore aggregate demand and full employment through policies that make up for shortfalls in private sector consumption and business investment spending.


   Risks of Economic Stimulus  

There are several counterarguments regarding the efficiency and long-term benefits of economic stimulus. Some theorists believe that economic stimulus can actually delay or prevent private sector recovery from the actual cause of a recession. According to this viewpoint, it is misguided to target economic stimulus toward industries that are hardest hit by the recession because these are precisely the areas of the economy that may need to be cut back to adjust to real economic conditions.



Other critiques about the effectiveness of economic stimulus revolve around how people respond to economic incentives. Economists have argued that consumers and businesses adjust their behavior in ways that offset the stimulus policy. The response to the stimulus will not be a simple multiplier effect but will also include these offsetting behaviors. 



One such theory is Ricardian equivalence, named for David Ricardo’s work dating back to the early 1800s, which suggests that consumers internalize government spending decisions in a way that counterbalances stimulus measures. In other words, Ricardo argued that consumers will spend less today if they believe they will pay higher future taxes to cover government deficits.



Other critics of economic stimulus point to the crowding out of private investment. The crowding-out critique suggests that government deficit spending will reduce private investment in two ways:



The rising demand for labor will increase wages, which hurts business profits.
Deficits must be funded in the short run by debt, which will cause a marginal increase in interest rates, making it more costly for businesses to obtain financing necessary for their own investments.


   Examples of Economic Stimulus Programs  

Those who have lived through the past few decades have had quite a few chances to see economic stimulus in action. The economic shockwaves from the financial crisis of 2007–2008 and more recently the COVID-19 pandemic forced fiscal and monetary policymakers into action. The programs below represent just a small sampling of government efforts to steer the economy through the respective crises, but they offer some insights into the potential benefits and shortcomings of economic stimulus.


  Cash for Clunkers  

Policymakers often attempt to direct the benefits of economic stimulus toward specific industries or sectors. When the U.S. auto industry struggled during the Great Recession, the government instituted the Cash for Clunkers program, which incentivized consumers to buy new, fuel-efficient vehicles to replace their old cars. Signed into law by then-President Barack Obama and lasting for a short time frame in the summer of 2009 until its allocated funding was depleted, Cash for Clunkers was intended to be a win-win by stimulating a critical industry during the recession while also reducing pollution.



However, critics argued that Cash for Clunkers led to a used vehicle shortage and higher car prices, with much of the benefit going to foreign car manufacturers. The program succeeded in nudging consumers to trade in their gas guzzlers, but it may have simply pushed forward a transaction that was going to happen anyway, and the economic effect was short-lived. Even the environmental impact was mixed, as the discarded clunkers generated hazardous waste from metal shredding, and the program did not represent a cost-effective way to cut emissions.


  Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act  

The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act, signed into law by then-President Donald Trump on March 27, 2020, aimed to counteract the economic turmoil set into motion by the global COVID-19 pandemic. With concerns that the U.S. economy was heading into a recession, policymakers passed a record $2.2 trillion stimulus bill to support large and small businesses, industries, individuals, families, gig workers, independent contractors, and the healthcare system.



The CARES Act took a multifaceted approach to stimulate the ailing economy during the early stages of the pandemic. The legislation put money directly into the pockets of U.S. consumers, authorizing direct stimulus payments of $1,200 per adult plus $500 per child for households making up to $75,000, with additional tax rebates for families with children. The stimulus package also boosted unemployment benefits and helped small businesses hold onto their employees. As far as targeting individual hard-hit industries and sectors, the CARES Act directed billions toward airlines to keep planes in the skies throughout the pandemic.



In addition to standing out for its massive price tag, the CARES Act pushed the boundaries of economic stimulus by directly replacing large swaths of private sector spending that had been destroyed by the coronavirus. While the CARES Act may have been a needed response to the unprecedented economic shock of the pandemic, the long-term impact of the stimulus package remains difficult to quantify.




How Is the Economy Stimulated?
The government can stimulate the economy through targeted, expansionary monetary and fiscal policy. The idea of economic stimulus is that these actions by the government help to jump-start economic activity in the private sector.Policy tools for stimulating the economy include interest rate cuts, government spending increases, and quantitative easing. Policymakers generally direct stimulus programs toward key economic sectors to take advantage of multiplier effects that they hope will indirectly increase private sector spending.




Is Stimulus Good for the Economy?
Economists continue to debate the usefulness of economic stimulus programs. While stimulus efforts often have short-term benefits of boosting demand and reinvigorating vital economic sectors, the longer-term effects can be more difficult to quantify. For instance, an overstimulated economy could have the unintended consequence of crowding out private sector investment.




How Does Quantitative Easing Stimulate the Economy?
When central banks like the U.S. Federal Reserve opt to engage in quantitative easing, they buy securities from the market to increase the money supply. This means that banks have more reserves on hand, and the increased liquidity revitalizes lending and investing.


   The Bottom Line  

Economic stimulus can refer to monetary and fiscal policies that governments put in place to energize economic activity in the private sector. Policymakers aim stimulus efforts at critical areas of the economy, with hopes that the multiplier effect will provoke broader economic growth.



There is still plenty of debate surrounding the long-term impact of economic stimulus programs. Proponents argue that targeted economic stimulus can be a vital recession-fighting tool that avoids the risks associated with more drastic measures. Meanwhile, critics say that economic stimulus packages may have unpredictable and negative impacts in the long term.
What Is Economic Value?  

Economic value is the value that person places on an economic good based on the benefit that they derive from the good. It is often estimated based on the person’s willingness to pay for the good, typically measured in units of currency. The economic value should not be confused with market value, which is the market price for a good or service which can be higher or lower than the economic value that any particular person puts on a good.





Key Takeaways

Economic value is the value that a person places on a good or service, based on the benefit they get from it.Economic value is subjective and difficult or impossible to measure, though there are approaches to estimating it.Producers use estimates of economic value to set prices for their products taking into consideration tangible and intangible factors such as brand name.


   Understanding Economic Value  

The preferences of a given person determine the economic value of a good or service and the trade-offs that they will be willing to make to obtain it. For example, if a person has an apple, then the economic value of that apple is the benefit that they receive from their use of the apple. If they intend to eat the apple, then the economic value is the enjoyment and nutrition they expect to receive from eating the apple. 



The economic value of the apple does not exist as any objective quality of the apple, but is entirely dependent on the subjective intention of the person valuing the apple and their relationship to it. While the qualities of the apple might influence the use that the person has for the apple the sole source of economic value for the apple is the person’s expectation of how well an apple of that given quality will suit their use. 


   Economic Value of Consumer Goods  

Because economic value is subjective and dependent on a person’s intentions it cannot be directly measured. Various methods have been devised in order to try to quantify or estimate economic value however.


  Willingness to Pay  

The classic method that economists use to estimate how much people value an economic good is to look at the price they pay for it. When an individual buys a good, they give up a given amount of money in return. Because they value both the good they receive and the money they give up based on their subjective, intended use (for the good or the money) it is obvious from their choice to purchase the good, that they must place a higher economic value on the good than on that amount of money. Thus, the price that a person pays for a good provides one way to quantify the economic value of that good.


  Hedonic Pricing  

Hedonic pricing is another way of estimating the economic value of a good. Hedonic pricing uses statistical regression analysis to estimate the economic value the people attach to the various specific attributes of a good based on past transactions. Because these attributes, or qualities, of the good are what determine how well the good will suit an individual's intended use for the good, they will indirectly influence the economic value of the good. Economists can create statistical models of how the attributes of similar goods have influenced the price of similar goods in past transactions, and use these to estimate the economic value of a given good based on it’s attributes.


  Economic Value in Marketing  

Companies use the economic value to the customer (EVC) to set prices for their products or services. EVC is not derived from a precise mathematical formula, but it considers the tangible and intangible value of a product. The tangible value is based on the product's functionality, and the intangible value is based on consumer sentiment toward product ownership.



For example, a consumer places a tangible value on a durable pair of sneakers that provide protection and support during athletic activity. However, the sneaker's brand label or affiliation with a celebrity can add intangible value to the sneakers. Marketer can use surveys, focus groups, or other tools, so get an idea of how much value consumers will place on the sneakers based on their characteristics.
What Is Economic Value Added (EVA)?  

Economic value added (EVA) is a measure of a company's financial performance based on the residual wealth calculated by deducting its cost of capital from its operating profit, adjusted for taxes on a cash basis. EVA can also be referred to as economic profit, as it attempts to capture the true economic profit of a company. This measure was devised by management consulting firm Stern Value Management, originally incorporated as Stern Stewart & Co.





Key Takeaways

Economic value added (EVA), also known as economic profit, aims to calculate the true economic profit of a company.EVA is used to measure the value a company generates from funds invested in it.However, EVA relies heavily on invested capital and is best used for asset-rich companies, where companies with intangible assets, such as technology businesses, may not be good candidates.


   Understanding Economic Value Added (EVA)  

EVA is the incremental difference in the rate of return (RoR) over a company's cost of capital. Essentially, it is used to measure the value a company generates from funds invested in it. If a company's EVA is negative, it means the company is not generating value from the funds invested into the business. Conversely, a positive EVA shows a company is producing value from the funds invested in it.



The formula for calculating EVA is:



EVA = NOPAT - (Invested Capital * WACC)



Where:



NOPAT = Net operating profit after taxes
Invested capital = Debt + capital leases + shareholders' equity
WACC = Weighted average cost of capital


   Special Considerations  

The equation for EVA shows that there are three key components to a company's EVA—NOPAT, the amount of capital invested, and the WACC. NOPAT can be calculated manually but is normally listed in a public company's financials.



Capital invested is the amount of money used to fund a company or a specific project. WACC is the average rate of return a company expects to pay its investors; the weights are derived as a fraction of each financial source in a company's capital structure. WACC can also be calculated but is normally provided.



The equation used for invested capital in EVA is usually total assets minus current liabilities—two figures easily found on a firm's balance sheet. In this case, the modified formula for EVA is NOPAT - (total assets - current liabilities) * WACC.



As noted by Stern Value Management, in 1983 the management team developed EVA, "a new model for maximizing the value created that can also be used to provide incentives at all levels of the firm." The goal of EVA is to quantify the cost of investing capital into a certain project or firm and then assess whether it generates enough cash to be considered a good investment. A positive EVA shows a project is generating returns in excess of the required minimum return.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of EVA  

EVA assesses the performance of a company and its management through the idea that a business is only profitable when it creates wealth and returns for shareholders, thus requiring performance above a company's cost of capital.



EVA as a performance indicator is very useful. The calculation shows how and where a company created wealth, through the inclusion of balance sheet items. This forces managers to be aware of assets and expenses when making managerial decisions.



However, the EVA calculation relies heavily on the amount of invested capital and is best used for asset-rich companies that are stable or mature. Companies with intangible assets, such as technology businesses, may not be good candidates for an EVA evaluation.
What Is the Economic Value of Equity (EVE)?  

The economic value of equity (EVE) is a cash flow calculation that takes the present value of all asset cash flows and subtracts the present value of all liability cash flows. Unlike earnings at risk and value at risk (VAR), a bank uses the economic value of equity to manage its assets and liabilities. This is a long-term economic measure used to assess the degree of interest rate risk exposure—as opposed to net-interest income (NII), which reflects short-term interest rate risk.



The simplest definition of EVE is the net present value (NPV) of a bank's balance sheet's cash flows. This calculation is used for asset-liability management to measure changes in the economic value of the bank.






EVE risk is defined as a bank's value sensitivity to changes in market rates.





Key Takeaways

The economic value of equity (EVE) is a cash flow calculation that takes the present value of all asset cash flows and subtracts the present value of all liability cash flows.Unlike earnings at risk and value at risk (VAR), a bank uses the economic value of equity to manage its assets and liabilities. This is a long-term economic measure used to assess the degree of interest rate risk exposure.Financial regulators require banks to conduct periodic EVE calculations.


   Understanding EVE  

The economic value of equity is a cash flow calculation that subtracts the present value of the expected cash flows on liabilities from the present value of all expected asset cash flows. This value is used as an estimate of total capital when evaluating the sensitivity of total capital to fluctuations in interest rates. A bank may use this measure to create models that indicate how interest rate changes will affect its total capital.



The fair market values of a bank's assets and liabilities are directly linked to interest rates. A bank constructs models with all constituent assets and liabilities that show the effect of different interest rate changes on its total capital. This risk analysis is a key tool that allows banks to prepare against constantly changing interest rates and to perform stress tests.



An internationally accepted standard for determining interest rate risk is to stress-test EVE. The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision recommends a plus and minus 2% stress test on all interest rates and US bank regulations require regular analysis of EVE.



The economic value of equity should not be confused with the earnings profile of a bank. A general rise in interest rates may boost earnings of a bank, but it would normally cause a decrease in the economic value of equity because of the basic inverse relationship between asset values and interest rates and direct relationship (same direction) between values of liabilities and interest rates. However, EVE and bank earnings do bear a relationship in that the higher the EVE, the greater the potential for increased future earnings generated from the equity base.






Bank regulators require banks to conduct periodic EVE calculations.


   Limitations of EVE  

While the net present value of a bond can be calculated quite easily, future cash flows can be difficult to quantify for deposit accounts and other financial instruments that have no maturity because these types of products have uncertain duration and uneven cash flows. EVE modelers must make assumptions for certain liabilities, which may deviate from reality. In addition—because EVE is a comprehensive calculation—complex products with embedded options are not easily modeled and leave wide room for interpretation and subjective judgement of the modelers or their supervisors.
What Is Economics?  

Economics is a social science that focuses on the production, distribution, and consumption of goods and services, and analyzes the choices that individuals, businesses, governments, and nations make to allocate resources.





Key Takeaways

Economics is the study of how people allocate scarce resources for production, distribution, and consumption, both individually and collectively.The two branches of economics are microeconomics and macroeconomics.Economics focuses on efficiency in production and exchange.Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and the Consumer Price Index (CPI) are widely used economic indicators.












Zoe Hansen / Investopedia


   Understanding Economics  

Assuming humans have unlimited wants within a world of limited means, economists analyze how resources are allocated for production, distribution, and consumption.



The study of microeconomics focuses on the choices of individuals and businesses, and macroeconomics concentrates on the behavior of the economy as a whole, on an aggregate level.



One of the earliest recorded economists was the 8th-century B.C. Greek farmer and poet Hesiod who wrote that labor, materials, and time needed to be allocated efficiently to overcome scarcity. The publication of Adam Smith's 1776 book, An Inquiry Into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations sparked the beginning of the current Western contemporary economic theories.


   Microeconomics  

Microeconomics studies how individual consumers and firms make decisions to allocate resources. Whether a single person, a household, or a business, economists may analyze how these entities respond to changes in price and why they demand what they do at particular price levels.



Microeconomics analyzes how and why goods are valued differently, how individuals make financial decisions, and how they trade, coordinate, and cooperate.



Within the dynamics of supply and demand, the costs of producing goods and services, and how labor is divided and allocated, microeconomics studies how businesses are organized and how individuals approach uncertainty and risk in their decision-making.


   Macroeconomics  

Macroeconomics is the branch of economics that studies the behavior and performance of an economy as a whole. Its primary focus is the recurrent economic cycles and broad economic growth and development.



It focuses on foreign trade, government fiscal and monetary policy, unemployment rates, the level of inflation, interest rates, the growth of total production output, and business cycles that result in expansions, booms, recessions, and depressions. 



Using aggregate indicators, economists use macroeconomic models to help formulate economic policies and strategies.


   What Is the Role of an Economist?  

An economist studies the relationship between a society's resources and its production or output, and their opinions help shape economic policies related to interest rates, tax laws, employment programs, international trade agreements, and corporate strategies.



Economists analyze economic indicators, such as gross domestic product and the consumer price index to identify potential trends or make economic forecasts.



According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, 36% of all economists in the United States work for a federal or state agency. Economists are also employed as professors, by corporations, or as part of economic think tanks.


   What Are Economic Indicators?  

Economic indicators detail a country's economic performance. Published periodically by governmental agencies or private organizations, economic indicators often have a considerable effect on stocks, employment, and international markets, and often predict future economic conditions that will move markets and guide investment decisions.


  Gross domestic product (GDP)  

The gross domestic product (GDP) is considered the broadest measure of a country's economic performance. It calculates the total market value of all finished goods and services produced in a country in a given year. The Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) also issues a regular report during the latter part of each month. Many investors, analysts, and traders focus on the advance GDP report and the preliminary report, both issued before the final GDP figures because the GDP is considered a lagging indicator, meaning it can confirm a trend but can't predict a trend.





GDPNow

The GDPNow forecasting model, used by the Federal Reserve, provides a "nowcast" of the official estimate before its release by estimating GDP growth using a methodology similar to the one used by the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis.


  Retail sales  

Reported by the Department of Commerce (DOC) during the middle of each month, the retail sales report is very closely watched and measures the total receipts, or dollar value, of all merchandise sold in stores. Sampling retailers across the country acts as a proxy of consumer spending levels. Consumer spending represents more than two-thirds of GDP, proving useful to gauge the economy's general direction.


  Industrial production  

The industrial production report, released monthly by the Federal Reserve, reports changes in the production of factories, mines, and utilities in the U.S. One measure included in this report is the capacity utilization ratio, which estimates the portion of productive capacity that is being used rather than standing idle in the economy. Capacity utilization in the range of 82% to 85% is considered "tight" and can increase the likelihood of price increases or supply shortages in the near term. Levels below 80% are interpreted as showing "slack" in the economy, which may increase the likelihood of a recession.


  Employment Data  

The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) releases employment data in a report called the nonfarm payrolls on the first Friday of each month. Sharp increases in employment indicate prosperous economic growth and potential contractions may be imminent if significant decreases occur. These are generalizations and it is important to consider the current position of the economy.


  Consumer Price Index (CPI)  

The Consumer Price Index (CPI), also issued by the BLS, measures the level of retail price changes, and the costs that consumers pay, and is the benchmark for measuring inflation. Using a basket that is representative of the goods and services in the economy, the CPI compares the price changes month after month and year after year. This report is an important economic indicator and its release can increase volatility in equity, fixed income, and forex markets. Greater-than-expected price increases are considered a sign of inflation, which will likely cause the underlying currency to depreciate.


   Economic Systems  

Five economic systems illustrate historical practices used to allocate resources to meet the needs of the individual and society.


  Primitivism  

In primitive agrarian societies, individuals produced necessities from building dwellings, growing crops, and hunting game at the household or tribal level.


  Feudalism  

A political and economic system of Europe from the 9th to 15th century, feudalism was defined by the lords who held land and leased it to peasants for production, who received a promise of safety and security from the lord.


  Capitalism  

With the advent of the industrial revolution, capitalism emerged and is defined as a system of production where business owners organize resources including tools, workers, and raw materials to produce goods for market consumption and earn profits. Supply and demand set prices in markets in a way that can serve the best interests of society. 


  Socialism  

Socialism is a form of a cooperative production economy. Economic socialism is a system of production where there is limited or hybrid private ownership of the means of production. Prices, profits, and losses are not the determining factors used to establish who engages in the production, what to produce and how to produce it.


  Communism  

Communism holds that all economic activity is centralized through the coordination of state-sponsored central planners with common ownership of production and distribution.


   Schools of Economic Theory  

Many economic theories have evolved as societies and markets have grown and changed. However, three disciplines of economics, neoclassical, Keynesian, and Marxian, have influenced modern society.



The principles of neoclassical economics are often used as a framework to illustrate the virtues of capitalism, including the tendency of market prices to reach equilibrium as the volume of supply and demand changes. The optimal valuation of resources emerges from the forces of individual desire and scarcity.



John Maynard Keynes developed the theory of Keynesian economics during the Great Depression. Arguing against neoclassical theory, Keynes showed that the restrained markets and government intervention in markets create a stable and equitable economic system and advocated for a monetary policy designed to boost demand and investor confidence during economic downturns.



Marxian economics is defined in Karl Marx's work Das Kapital. Marxian economics is a rejection of the classical view of economics arguing against the idea that the free market, an economic system determined by supply and demand with little or no government control, benefits society. He espoused that capitalism only benefits a select few and that the ruling class becomes richer by extracting value out of cheap labor provided by the working class.




What Is a Command Economy?
A command economy is an economy in which production, investment, prices, and incomes are determined centrally by a government. A communist society has a command economy.




What Is Behavioral Economics?
Behavioral economics combines psychology, judgment, decision-making, and economics to understand human behavior.




Who Has Influenced the Study of Economics in the 21st Century?
Since 2000, several economists have won the Nobel Prize in economics, including David Card for his contributions to labor economics, Angus Deaton for his study of consumption, poverty, and welfare, and Paul Krugman for his analysis of trade patterns.
What Are Economies of Scale?  

Economies of scale are cost advantages reaped by companies when production becomes efficient. Companies can achieve economies of scale by increasing production and lowering costs. This happens because costs are spread over a larger number of goods. Costs can be both fixed and variable.





Key Takeaways

Economies of scale are cost advantages companies experience when production becomes efficient, as costs can be spread over a larger amount of goods.A business's size is related to whether it can achieve an economy of scale—larger companies will have more cost savings and higher production levels.Economies of scale can be both internal and external. Internal economies are caused by factors within a single company while external factors affect the entire industry.












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   Understanding Economies of Scale  

The size of the business generally matters when it comes to economies of scale. The larger the business, the more the cost savings. Economies of scale can be both internal and external. Internal economies of scale are based on management decisions, while external ones have to do with outside factors.



Internal functions include accounting, information technology, and marketing, which are also considered operational efficiencies and synergies.



Economies of scale are an important concept for any business in any industry and represent the cost-savings and competitive advantages larger businesses have over smaller ones.



Most consumers don't understand why a smaller business charges more for a similar product sold by a larger company. That's because the cost per unit depends on how much the company produces. Larger companies can produce more by spreading the cost of production over a larger amount of goods. An industry may also be able to dictate the cost of a product if several different companies are producing similar goods within that industry.



There are several reasons why economies of scale give rise to lower per-unit costs. First, specialization of labor and more integrated technology boost production volumes. Second, lower per-unit costs can come from bulk orders from suppliers, larger advertising buys, or lower costs of capital. Third, spreading internal function costs across more units produced and sold helps to reduce costs.






A company can create a diseconomy of scale when it becomes too large and chases an economy of scale.


   Internal vs. External Economies of Scale  

As mentioned above, there are two different types of economies of scale.



Internal economies of scale: Originate within the company, due to changes in how that company functions or produces goodsExternal economies of scale: Based on factors that affect the entire industry, rather than a single company


  Internal Economies of Scale  

Internal economies of scale happen when a company cuts costs internally, so they're unique to that particular firm. This may be the result of the sheer size of a company or because of decisions from the firm's management. There are different kinds of internal economies of scale. These include:



Technical: large-scale machines or production processes that increase productivityPurchasing: discounts on cost due to purchasing in bulkManagerial: employing specialists to oversee and improve different parts of the production processRisk-Bearing: spreading risks out across multiple investorsFinancial: higher creditworthiness, which increases access to capital and more favorable interest ratesMarketing: more advertising power spread out across a larger market, as well as a position in the market to negotiate



Larger companies are often able to achieve internal economies of scale—lowering their costs and raising their production levels—because they can, for example, buy resources in bulk, have a patent or special technology, or access more capital.


  External Economies of Scale  

External economies of scale, on the other hand, are achieved because of external factors, or factors that affect an entire industry. That means no one company controls costs on its own. These occur when there is a highly-skilled labor pool, subsidies and/or tax reductions, and partnerships and joint ventures—anything that can cut down on costs to many companies in a specific industry.


   Limits to Economies of Scale  

Management techniques and technology have been focusing on limits to economies of scale for decades.



Set-up costs are lower due to more flexible technology. Equipment is priced more closely to match production capacity, enabling smaller producers such as steel mini-mills and craft brewers to compete more easily.



Outsourcing functional services make costs more similar across businesses of various sizes. These functional services include accounting, human resources, marketing, treasury, legal, and information technology.



Micro-manufacturing, hyper-local manufacturing, and additive manufacturing (3D printing) can lower both set-up and production costs. Global trade and logistics have contributed to lower costs, regardless of the size of an individual plant. 



According the International Monetary Fund, the prices of both capital goods and the cost of machinery and equipment have been falling in emerging, developed, and even industrial countries for the past three decades.


   Examples of Economies of Scale  

In a hospital, it is still a 20-minute visit with a doctor, but all the business overhead costs of the hospital system are spread across more doctor visits and the person assisting the doctor is no longer a degreed nurse, but a technician or nursing aide. 



Job shops produce products in groups such as shirts with your company logo. A significant element of the cost is the setup. In job shops, larger production runs lower unit costs because the set-up costs of designing the logo and creating the silk-screen pattern are spread across more shirts. In an assembly factory, per-unit costs are reduced by more seamless technology with robots.



A restaurant kitchen is often used to illustrate how economies of scale are limited: more cooks in a small space get into each other's way. In economics charts, this has been illustrated with some flavor of a U-shaped curve, in which the average cost per unit falls and then rises. Costs rising as production volume grows is termed "dis-economies of scale." 




What Are Economies of Scale?
Economies of scale are the advantages that can sometimes occur as a result of increasing the size of a business. For example, a business might enjoy an economy of scale concerning its bulk purchasing. By buying a large number of products at once, it could negotiate a lower price per unit than its competitors.




What Causes Economies of Scale?
Generally speaking, economies of scale can be achieved in two ways. First, a company can realize internal economies of scale by reorganizing the way their resources—such as equipment and personnel—are distributed and used within the company. Second, a company can realize external economies of scale by growing in size relative to their competitors using that increased scale to engage in competitive practices such as negotiating discounts for bulk purchases.




Why Are Economies of Scale Important?
Economies of scale are important because they can help provide businesses with a competitive advantage in their industry. Companies will therefore try to realize economies of scale wherever possible, just as investors will try to identify economies of scale when selecting investments. One particularly famous example of an economy of scale is known as the network effect.
What Are Economies of Scope?  

An economy of scope means that the production of one good reduces the cost of producing another related good. Economies of scope occur when producing a wider variety of goods or services in tandem is more cost effective for a firm than producing less of a variety, or producing each good independently. In such a case, the long-run average and marginal cost of a company, organization, or economy decreases due to the production of complementary goods and services.



While economies of scope are characterized by efficiencies formed by variety, economies of scale are instead characterized by volume. The latter refers to a reduction in marginal cost by producing additional units. Economies of scale, for instance, helped drive corporate growth in the 20th century through assembly line production.





Key Takeaways

Economies of scope describe situations where producing two or more goods together results in a lower marginal cost than producing them separately.Economies of scope differ from economies of scale, in that the former means producing a variety of different products together to reduce costs while the latter means producing more of the same good in order to reduce costs by increasing efficiency.Economies of scope can result from goods that are co-products or complements in production, goods that have complementary production processes, or goods that share inputs to production.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Understanding Economies of Scope  

Economies of scope are economic factors that make the simultaneous manufacturing of different products more cost-effective than manufacturing them on their own. A simple way to illustrate the contrast is to use the example of a train: A single train can carry both passengers and freight more cheaply than having two separate trains, one only for passengers and another for freight. In this case, a single train that has cars dedicated to both categories is far more cost effective, and may also result in lower ticket or tonnage costs for the train's users as well.



Economies of scope can occur because the products are co-produced by the same process, the production processes are complementary, or the inputs to production are shared by the products.


  Co-Products  

Economies of scope can arise from co-production relationships between final products. In economic terms these goods are called complements in production. This occurs when the production of one good automatically produces another good as a byproduct or a kind of side-effect of the production process. Sometimes one product might be a byproduct of another, but have value for use by the producer or for sale. Finding a productive use or market for the co-products can reduce both waste and costs and increase revenues.



For example, dairy farmers separate raw milk from cows into whey and curds, with the curds going on to become cheese. In the process they also end up with a lot of whey, which they can then use as a high-protein feed for livestock to reduce their overall feed costs or sell as a nutritional product to fitness enthusiasts and weightlifters for additional revenue. Another example of this is the so-called black liquor produced when processing wood into paper pulp. Instead of being merely a waste product that might be costly to dispose of, black liquor can be burned as an energy source to fuel and heat the plant, saving money on other fuels, or can even be processed into more advanced biofuels for use on-site or for sale. Producing and using the black liquor thus saves costs on producing the paper.


  Complementary Production Processes  

Economies of scope can also result from the direct interaction of two or more production processes. Companion planting in agriculture is a classic example here, such as the "Three Sisters" crops historically cultivated by Native Americans. By planting corn, pole beans, and ground trailing squash together, the Three Sisters method actually increases the yield of each crop, while also improving the soil. The tall corn stalks provide a structure for the bean vines to climb up; the beans fertilize the corn and the squash by fixing nitrogen in the soil; and the squash shades out weeds among the crops with its broad leaves. All three plants benefit from being produced together, so the farmer can grow more crops at lower cost.



A modern example would be a co-operative training program between an aerospace manufacturer and an engineering school, where students at the school also work part time or intern at the business. The manufacturer can reduce its overall costs by obtaining low cost access to skilled labor, and the engineering school can reduce its instructional costs by effectively outsourcing some instructional time to the manufacturer's training managers. The final goods being produced (airplanes and engineering degrees) might not seem to be direct complements or share many inputs, but producing them together reduces the cost of both.


  Shared Inputs  

Because productive inputs (i.e. land, labor, and capital) usually have more than one use, economies of scope can often come from common inputs to the production of two or more different goods. For example, a restaurant can produce both chicken fingers and French fries at a lower average expense than what it would cost two separate firms to produce each of the goods separately. This is because chicken fingers and french fries can share use of the same cold storage, fryers, and cooks during production.



Proctor & Gamble is an excellent example of a company that efficiently realizes economies of scope from common inputs since it produces hundreds of hygiene-related products from razors to toothpaste. The company can afford to hire expensive graphic designers and marketing experts who can use their skills across all of the company's product lines, adding value to each one. If these team members are salaried, each additional product they work on increases the company's economies of scope, because of the average cost per unit decreases.


   Different Ways to Achieve Economies of Scope  

Real-world examples of the economy of scope can be seen in mergers and acquisitions (M&A), newly discovered uses of resource byproducts (such as crude petroleum), and when two producers agree to share the same factors of production. 



Economies of scope are essential for any large business, and a firm can go about achieving such scope in a variety of ways. First, and most common, is the idea that efficiency is gained through related diversification. Products that share the same inputs or that have complementary productive processes offer great opportunities for economies of scope through diversification.



Horizontally merging with or acquiring another company is another a way to achieve economies of scope. Two regional retail chains, for example, may merge with each other to combine different product lines and reduce average warehouse costs. Goods that can share common inputs like this are very suitable for generating economies of scope through horizontal acquisitions.


   Example of Economies of Scope  

As one last example, assume that company ABC is the leading desktop computer producer in the industry. Company ABC wants to increase its product line and remodels its manufacturing building to produce a variety of electronic devices, such as laptops, tablets, and phones. Since the cost of operating the manufacturing building is spread out across a variety of products, the average total cost of production decreases. The costs of producing each electronic device in another building would be greater than just using a single manufacturing building to produce multiple products.
What Is an Economist?  

An economist is an expert who studies the relationship between a society's resources and its production or output. Economists study societies ranging from small, local communities to entire nations and even the global economy.



The expert opinions and research findings of an economist are used to help shape a wide variety of policies, including interest rates, tax laws, employment programs, international trade agreements, and corporate strategies.





Key Takeaways

An economist is an expert who studies the relationship between a society's resources and its production or output, using a number of different indicators, in order to predict future trends.According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the median pay for an economist in 2021 was $105,630 per year or $50.79 per hour.A career as an economist has two main requirements: an advanced degree, such as a Ph.D. or a master's degree, and an area of specialization to focus research efforts.The theories of economists can provide a way for businesses and the government to react to the future direction of the economy.



The duties of an economist are incredibly varied: research economic issues; conduct surveys and collect data; analyze data using mathematical models, statistical techniques, and software; present research results in reports, tables, and charts; interpret and forecast market trends; advise businesses, governments, and individuals on economic topics; recommend solutions to economic problems; write articles for academic journals and other media.



According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the median pay for an economist in 2021 was $105,630 per year or $50.79 per hour.


   Understanding Economists  

There is a good chance that someone interested in a career as an economist will work for the government. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, roughly 36% of all economists work for either a federal or state agency. Economists are also employed as professors, by corporations or as part of economic think tanks.



A career as an economist has two main requirements. First, economists generally hold advanced degrees, such as a Ph.D. or a master's degree. The typical entry-level education for an economist is a master's degree. Second, economists typically develop an area of specialization where they focus their research efforts.


   Economists Influence Strategic Economic Plans  

The role of an economist includes analyzing data that includes economic indicators, such as gross domestic product and consumer confidence surveys. Economists might research the distribution, accessibility, and reach of goods and services, in order to identify potential trends or make economic forecasts.



The work of economists might be commissioned to target specific segments or topics where expert assessments are needed. This could be done for budgeting and planning purposes when the insights of the economists will serve as the basis for a plan of action. For example, if there is a change in spending trends in a particular industry, investors and companies working in that industry might look to economists to provide perspective on what the next evolution of the market may be.



Furthermore, the input of economists can reveal the underlying causes that shape market cycles. Insights of economists can also be to form forecasts for job market growth as particular segments of the economy grow.



Economists may reference factors and elements that provide a new understanding of what drives trends. The assessments that economists provide may draw upon large segments of time and take advantage of large collections of data. Their theories can also provide a way for others to react to the future direction of the economy. Companies could use such perspectives to adjust their strategies, including whether or not to pursue development on particular products or if a product should be discontinued in favor of a different approach.
What Is an Economy?  

An economy is a complex system of interrelated production, consumption, and exchange activities that ultimately determines how resources are allocated among all the participants. The production, consumption, and distribution of goods and services combine to fulfill the needs of those living and operating within the economy.



An economy may represent a nation, a region, a single industry, or even a family.





Key Takeaways

An economy is a system of inter-related production and consumption activities that ultimately determine the allocation of resources within a group.The production and consumption of goods and services as a whole fulfill the needs of those living and operating within it.Market-based economies, also called free market economies, are self-regulated, allowing goods to be produced and distributed in response to demand from consumers.Command-based economies are regulated by a government body that determines the goods which are produced, their quantities, and the price paid for them.In the modern world, few economies are purely market-based or command-based.












Investopedia / Alex Dos Diaz


   Understanding Economies  

An economy encompasses all of the activities related to the production, consumption, and trade of goods and services in an entity, whether the entity is a nation or a small town.



No two economies are identical. Each is formed according to its own resources, culture, laws, history, and geography. Each evolves according to the choices and actions of the participants.



These decisions are made through some combination of market transactions and collective or hierarchical decision-making.






Capitalism requires a market-based economy. Communism requires a command-based economy.


   Types of Economies  

In the modern world, few nations are purely market-based or purely command-based. But most lean toward one or the other of these models.


  Market-Based Economies  

Market-based or "free market" economies allow people and businesses to freely exchange goods and services according to supply and demand.



The United States is mostly a market economy. Producers determine what’s sold and produced, and what prices to charge. If they expect to succeed, they will produce what consumers want and charge what consumers are willing to pay.  



Through these decisions, the laws of supply and demand determine prices and total production. If consumer demand for a specific product increases, production tends to increase to satisfy the demand. The increased demand causes prices to rise until consumers balk and cut back on their purchases. Demand for the product will then decline and prices will decline with it.



This constant tug of supply and demand allows a market economy a tendency to naturally balance itself. As the prices in one sector rise with demand, the money and labor needed to fill that demand shift to those places where they're needed.


  Command-Based Economies  

Command-based economies depend on a central government that controls the production levels, pricing, and distribution of goods.



In such a system, the government owns industries deemed essential on behalf of the consumers who use them. Competition among companies is discouraged or banned. Prices are controlled.



Communism requires a command-based economy. Contemporary examples include Cuba and North Korea.



A command-based economy attempts to supersede the workings of supply and demand.


  Mixed Economies  

Pure market economies rarely exist in the modern world since there's usually some degree of government intervention or central planning. Even the United States could be considered a mixed economy. It may not mandate production but it has ways to influence it. For example:



In late 2021, President Joe Biden ordered 50 million gallons of oil released from the nation's Strategic Petroleum Reserves with the stated aim of forcing gasoline prices lower by increasing its supply.
In 2022 and 2023, the Federal Reserve imposed a series of interest rate increases on the nation's banks. The purpose was to raise interest rates throughout the economy in order to reduce demand for loans and therefore reduce inflation in the costs of goods and services.



In truth, most of the world's developed economies mix market-based and command-based models.



China had a command economy only until 1978, when it began a series of reforms that encouraged private enterprise.


   Studying Economies  

The study of economies and the factors affecting economies is called economics. The discipline of economics can be broken into two major areas of focus: microeconomics and macroeconomics.


  Microeconomics  

Microeconomics studies the behavior of individual people and businesses in order to understand why they make the economic decisions they do and how these decisions affect the larger economic system.



Microeconomics studies how a particular value is attached to a product or service. It examines how individuals coordinate and cooperate with each other in business.



Microeconomics tends to focus on economic tendencies, such as how individual choices and actions impact changes in production.



Clearly, principles of psychology and marketing influence microeconomics.


  Macroeconomics  

As the name implies, macroeconomics studies the big picture.



Macroeconomics includes the study of economy-wide factors such as the effect of rising prices or inflation on the economy. It seeks to track and understand the financial indicators that clarify an economy's success or failure over time, such as gross domestic product (GDP), changes in unemployment, and consumer spending.



In short, macroeconomics studies how the economy as a whole behaves.


   Economic Indicators  

As noted above, macroeconomics is the study of the big picture and that picture is incomplete without a set of economic indicators. These are some of the most closely-watched of those indicators.


  Gross Domestic Product (GDP)  

Gross domestic product (GDP) is the total value of all of the completed goods and services produced by an economy during a period of one year.



The gross domestic product of the United States reached $26.5 trillion in 2023.


  Unemployment  

The Unemployment Report estimates the number of people who are working for pay during a given period. More importantly, the number is tracked over time in order to determine whether unemployment is worsening.



In the U.S., the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) publishes a monthly unemployment report that breaks down how many people are working, the average number of hours they are working, and their average earnings. This is used to produce the unemployment rate.


  Inflation (or Deflation)  

Inflation in consumer prices is measured and tracked so that problems in the economy can be pinpointed. If the rate of inflation is outpacing the rate of income growth, the economy is in trouble. Inflation can be negative, too; this is called deflation, but it is relatively rare.



The BLS also publishes a key inflation report for the U.S. The Consumer Price Index tracks the costs of goods and services from month to month. It breaks down its report into the vital areas of consumer spending, such as food, energy, and rent costs.



Those numbers determine the rate of inflation.


  Balance of Trade  

An economy's balance of trade is a comparison of the amount of money that is spent on imports of goods and services and the amount of money it earns on goods and services it exports. It is measured primarily by recording all of the products that pass through the customs office of a country.



A nation achieves a positive balance of trade when it exports more than it imports. It has a negative balance of trade when it buys more than it sells.



Neither is necessarily good or bad. A nation may have a negative balance of trade because foreign businesses are heavily investing in its future. A nation with a positive balance of trade may have protectionist policies in place that could hurt it in the long run.



The U.S. had a balance of trade deficit in 2022 of about $945.3 billion, up from $845 billion the previous year, according to the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis.


   History of the Concept of Economy  

The word economy derives from the Greek term for household management ("oikonomia") and the word is still used in that context.



Economics as an area of study was touched on by philosophers in ancient Greece, notably Aristotle, but the modern study of economics began in 18th-century Europe, particularly in Scotland and France.


  Development of Modern Economics  

The Scottish philosopher and economist Adam Smith, who in 1776 wrote a landmark book called "The Wealth of Nations," was thought of in his own time as a moral philosopher. He and his contemporaries traced the evolution of economies from prehistoric bartering systems to money-driven and eventually credit-driven economies. 



During the 19th century, the development of technology and the growth of international trade created stronger ties among countries, a process that accelerated into the Great Depression and World War II. After 50 years of the Cold War, the late 20th and early 21st centuries have seen a renewed globalization of economies.




What Is Economics?
Economics is a branch of the sciences that seeks to understand the way a population functions by studying the way its economy functions. Every group of people develops a survival plan based on shared labor and resources. How they do that, and how well they succeed at it, is the study of economics.




What Is Macroeconomics vs. Microeconomics?
Macroeconomics is the study of the overall performance of an economy. It evaluates the stability and progress of an economy over time by analysis of key indicators. These include gross domestic product (GDP), employment, inflation or deflation, and the balance of trade.Micronomics is the study of the behavior of the individual consumers and businesses that make up the economy. Their motivations, habits, and behaviors are studied to determine whether an economy is functioning in their best interests.




What Is Economics in Real Life?
All of us participate in an economy, with the possible exception of a hermit living on a desert island. We contribute something to the whole, by producing or helping to produce a product or offering a service. In return, we receive money that allows us to buy the goods and services that we can't produce for ourselves.


   The Bottom Line  

An economy is a community that is observed by an analysis of its allocation of resources. Every individual and family in the community has a contribution to make. In return, each expects a share of the goods and services provided by other members of the community.



In modern times, the functioning of an economy is analyzed and quantified by economists.
What Is EdTech?  

EdTech (a combination of "education" and "technology") refers to hardware and software designed to enhance teacher-led learning in classrooms and improve students' education outcomes. 



EdTech is still in the early stages of its development, but it shows promise as a method of customizing a curriculum for a student’s ability level by introducing and reinforcing new content at a pace the student can handle.





Key Takeaways

EdTech, short for education technology, refers to new technological implementations in the classroom.In-classroom tablets, interactive projection screens and whiteboards, online content delivery, and MOOCs are all examples of EdTech.The goal of EdTech is to improve student outcomes, enhance individualized education, and reduce the teaching burden on instructors.While many praise technology in the classroom, others fear that it is impersonal and can lead to data collection and tracking of both students and instructors.


   Understanding EdTech  

EdTech can be a contentious topic. As a large portion of the education system is unionized, there are concerns that EdTech is an attempt to phase out certain in class duties as a way of reducing costs. The creators of EdTech emphasize the enhancement potential of the software and technology, freeing up the teacher to move into more a facilitator role. With time constraints, it is difficult for a teacher to teach according to curriculum, catch up lower level learners, and still keep the top of the class engaged in their work. By automating the assessment of ability and adjustment of difficulty, EdTech can potentially lead to better outcomes for individual students and the class as a whole.



Technology in the classroom experienced two waves of implementation. The first was the introduction of hardware into the classroom. Inevitably the conversation has turned to getting the software to better coordinate and utilize all the hardware. These software solutions are EdTech. Many of them are cloud based and pull on educational research to set algorithms for how slowly or rapidly to advance a student along different learning objectives.



Massive Online Open Online Courses (MOOCs) use technology to reach a vast number of online students around the world. While these courses also have issues, such as low completion rates, they are an attempt to provide education in a way that suits the user.


   EdTech Concerns  

Many of the fears about EdTech are looking farther into the future where entire courses could potentially be managed by software. The current state of the field uses analytics to judge a student’s competency in different areas of the curriculum, allowing the student to move ahead more quickly in some areas while taking more time to reinforce areas of weakness. As each student works through a customized curriculum, the teacher acts as a facilitator and trouble shooter with insights provided by the EdTech software on a student’s strengths and weaknesses.



In practice, EdTech is still in the early stages of development for even basic subjects like math or reading and composition skills. There are a variety of design challenges for EdTech. The biggest hurdle is adjusting for different learning styles in the classroom. Currently EdTech is usually delivered through a laptop or tablet, resulting in a read-and-respond learning experience. Critics have noted that this style can leave other types of learners—auditory and kinesthetic for example—at a disadvantage. As with any new field of technological development, EdTech will improve the more it is used and the more feedback is collected.



However, EdTech faces additional social hurdles. Students, and even more so the parents, look to a teacher to create a social environment that enables group learning and other dynamics that aren’t currently within the scope of EdTech. The classroom of the future may depend heavily on EdTech to do the heavy lifting of course design but many parents and educators still see value in the group environment separate from the pure academic goals. Proponents say that like many innovations in education, EdTech is seeking to improve on the existing model rather than replace it entirely.


   Example of a Publicly Traded EdTech Company  

As of March 2020, K12 Inc. (LRN) is one of the biggest players in the EdTech space. It primarily focuses on providing individualized learning via curriculum, software, and services to students in kindergarten through grade 12.



The company offers full-time virtual classrooms, single courses, and tools and courses to supplement learning.
What Is an Education Loan?  

An education loan is a sum of money borrowed to finance post-secondary education or higher education-related expenses. Education loans are intended to cover the cost of tuition, books and supplies, and living expenses while the borrower is in the process of pursuing a degree. Payments are often deferred while students are in college and, depending on the lender, for an additional six-month period after earning a degree. This deferment period is also referred to as a "grace period."





Key Takeaways

An education loan is a sum of money borrowed to finance post-secondary education or higher education-related expenses.Education loans are intended to cover the cost of tuition, books and supplies, and living expenses while the borrower is in the process of pursuing a degree.Payments are often deferred while students are in college and, depending on the lender, sometimes they are deferred for an additional six-month period after earning a degree.Although there are a variety of education loans, they can be broken down generally into two basic types: federal loans (sponsored by the federal government) and private loans.


   How an Education Loan Works  

Education loans are issued for the purpose of attending an accredited college or a university to pursue an academic degree. Education loans can be obtained from the government or through private-sector lending sources. Federal loans often offer lower interest rates, and some also offer subsidized interest (meaning the United States Department of Education pays the interest on the loan while a student is in college at least half-time). Private-sector loans generally follow more of a traditional lending process for applications, with rates that are typically higher than federal government loans.


   Types of Education Loans  

Although there are a variety of education loans, they can be broken down generally into two basic types: federal loans (sponsored by the federal government) and private loans.


  Federal student loans  

Most borrowers first seek federal government financing if they need to borrow funds for education expenses. The first step in seeking education loans through the federal government is to complete a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Depending on the applicant's status, particularly in regard to their parental dependency, additional information may be required to complete the application. A credit check is not generally required as part of the application process. The amount of principal on the loan or loans is primarily based on the cost of attendance at the school the student is planning on attending. Once a FAFSA form is completed, the schools listed on the FAFSA application work to identify the financial aid package that the student is eligible for.



Various types of federal student loans exist, including direct subsidized, direct unsubsidized, and direct consolidation loans. If offered and accepted, funds will be issued by the federal government to the specified university to cover the student's academic costs. If there are remaining funds available, they will be disbursed to the student. A student may use these funds to cover other expenses that they incur while pursuing a degree. If a student qualifies for subsidized loans, the borrower’s interest will be covered while they are in school. If a student qualifies for unsubsidized loans, the interest on their loans will be deferred as long as they are enrolled in classes and remain in good academic standing.


  Private student loans  

In some cases, the student loan package that a student is issued through the federal government may suggest that the borrower applies for additional funds through private lenders. Private student loans also include state-affiliated lending nonprofits and institutional loans provided by the schools. These types of loans will generally follow a more standard application process (like what is typical of any private-sector loan). Applications for private student loans typically require a credit check.



Borrowers can apply directly to individual private-sector lenders for funds. Similar to federal funds, the approved amount will be influenced by the school a borrower is attending. If approved, funds for educational expenses will first be disbursed to the school to cover any pending bills; the remaining amount is then sent directly to the borrower.


   Special Considerations  

Accumulated debt from college can be an overwhelming burden after graduation.



If a student has taken out numerous education loans, consolidating them can be a good option for more easily managing the debt load. Multiple federal education loans can be combined into a single direct consolidation loan. Also, many private lenders now allow borrowers to combine both their federal and private loans into one loan. It's important to note that in this scenario, the new loan will be a private one because it will be issued by a private lender. Because the loan will be considered a private loan, the debt will no longer be eligible for certain federal programs for loan forgiveness and repayment. There is no option for borrowers to combine private and public loans into a new public loan.



A number of employers are also beginning to integrate consolidation services and student loan payment benefits into their employee benefit programs as a way of helping to increase the support available for managing student loan debt after college.



Students and their families should consider all of their options before signing up for higher education loans that could become a crushing burden in the future. Some alternatives to—or ways to reduce the size of—loans include working part-time, accepting work-study offers, attending a less expensive school, finding a job that offers tuition reimbursement as a benefit, and applying for scholarships that help to cover the cost of tuition and room and board. When the student has graduated, it also helps to search for a job that offers help with student debt as a benefit.




What type of debt are student loans?
Student loans are considered unsecured installment debts, meaning there isn't a physical asset tied to them, and they're paid back in a set number of installments over an agreed-upon period of time.




What are the four major types of educational loans?
There are four types of federal student loans available as part of the William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Program:Direct Subsidized Loans: Loans made to eligible undergraduate students who demonstrate a clear financial need.Direct Unsubsidized Loans: Loans made to eligible undergraduate, graduate, and professional students (eligibility isn't based on financial need).Direct PLUS Loans: Loans made to graduate or professional students and parents of dependent undergraduate students to pay for education expenses not covered by other financial aid (eligibility isn't based on financial need, though a credit check is required). Borrowers with a poor credit history must meet additional requirements.Direct Consolidation Loans: Loans that allow you to combine your eligible federal student loans into a single loan with one loan servicer.




What are three effective techniques for managing student loan debt?
There are several ways to better manage student debt. Three particularly useful strategies include paying off loans with the highest interest rates first, paying down extra principal whenever possible, and exploring operations for debt forgiveness.
What Is an Education IRA?  

An education IRA is a tax-advantaged investment account for higher education, now more formally known as a Coverdell Education Savings Account (ESA). Under this educational savings vehicle, parents and guardians are allowed to make nondeductible contributions to an education individual retirement account (IRA) for a child under the age of 18.





Key Takeaways

An education IRA is a tax-advantaged savings account used to pay for children's' educational expenses.They are formally known as Coverdell Education Savings Accounts.Educational IRAs are similar to 529 savings plans but with some key differences.


   Understanding Education IRAs  

Funds saved under an education IRA are meant to be used to cover future educational expenses such as tuition, books, and uniforms at the elementary, secondary, and higher education levels. The funds in an education IRA can be withdrawn tax-free when they are needed for educational purposes.



Education IRAs are also referred to as "Coverdell accounts" or simply as an "ESA." Despite their "IRA" moniker, they are for educational expenses, not retirement savings, though they work in a similar way.



Education IRAs existed before they were renamed Coverdell ESAs in 2002 and were made even more attractive as an educational savings vehicle when the list of qualified expenses was extended to certain K-12 expenses. They work in a way similar to Roth IRAs, in that both allow annual, nondeductible contributions to a specially designated investment account. That investment grows free of federal taxes, and withdrawals are tax-free as well, as long as certain requirements are met related to the year's contributions are made and the year's withdrawals are made.


   Special Considerations  

Education IRAs have many conditions and stipulations, such as:



Tax law prohibits funding an ESA once the beneficiary reaches 18 years old.
Coverdell ESAs have an annual contribution limit of $2,000, but a penalty may be assessed if a plan holder exceeds that amount.
Low contribution limits may mean that even a small maintenance charge by whatever institution holds an ESA can limit returns.
Unlike a 529 plan, the sum in an education IRA must be distributed to a child if not used for college.
ESA treatment in federal financial aid is similar to that of 529 plans—as an asset of the parent (custodian). A withdrawal is not reported as income as long as it is tax-free at the federal tax level.
Such an account must be totally liquidated by the time the beneficiary reaches the age of 30. If not, it will be subject to tax and penalties.


   Educational IRAs vs. 529 Plans  

Both the educational IRA and the 529 plan allow plan holders to set up an account for a beneficiary of their choice. The tax treatment of education IRAs is similar to that of 529 savings plans, though with a few notable differences. They are similar in that both allow for tax-deferred growth and for those proceeds to be withdrawn tax-free for qualified educational expenses at a qualified educational institution. Education IRAs are covered under Title 26, Subtitle A, Chapter 1, Subchapter F, Part VIII, Subsection 530 of the U.S. Code.



There is no limit to how many 529 plans a plan holder can set up. Contributions, though, are limited to the cost of education as outlined by the state where the accounts are held. Although accounts are set up for beneficiaries, they cannot lay claim to the funds. These plans can cover a number of different things:



The cost of tuitionEligible educational expenses such as equipmentRelated expenses such as meal plans and housing



The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) of 2017 made changes to the rules involving 529 plans. Plan holders can use up to a maximum of $10,000 to pay for K-12 tuition from public, private, or religious institutions per beneficiary each year—penalty- and tax-free.



Additional changes expanded the rules for 529 plans when the Setting Every Community up for Retirement Enhancement Act (SECURE) was signed into law in December 2019. The owner of the account can withdraw up to $10,000 to use toward the payment of tuition and other related expenses for a beneficiary's registered apprenticeship programs. Another change includes the ability for plan holders to withdraw a lifetime maximum of $10,000 to pay down a beneficiary's qualified student debt.
What Is an Effective Annual Interest Rate?  

An effective annual interest rate is the real return on a savings account or any interest-paying investment when the effects of compounding over time are taken into account. It also reflects the real percentage rate owed in interest on a loan, a credit card, or any other debt.



It is also called the effective interest rate, the effective rate, or the annual equivalent rate (AER).





Key Takeaways

The effective annual interest rate is the true interest rate on an investment or loan because it takes into account the effects of compounding.The more frequent the compounding periods, the higher the rate.A savings account or a loan may be advertised with both a nominal interest rate and an effective annual interest rate.The effective annual interest rate is the rate that should be compared between loans and investment rates of return.The effective annual interest rate does not communicate risk, incorporate fees, or factor in tax implications.












Theresa Chiechi / Investopedia


   Understanding the Effective Annual Interest Rate   

The effective annual interest rate describes the true interest rate associated with an investment or loan. The most important feature of the effective annual interest rate is that it takes into account the fact that more frequent compounding periods will lead to a higher effective interest rate.



Suppose, for instance, you have two loans, and each has a stated interest rate of 10%, in which one compounds annually and the other compounds twice per year. Even though they both have a stated interest rate of 10%, the effective annual interest rate of the loan that compounds twice per year will be higher. 






   Effective Annual Interest Rate Formula   

The following formula is used to calculate the effective annual interest rate:


















E


f


f


e


c


t


i


v


e


 


A


n


n


u


a


l


 


I


n


t


e


r


e


s


t


 


R


a


t


e


=




(


1


+



i


n



)



n



−


1
















where:
















i


=


Nominal interest rate
















n


=


Number of periods







\begin{aligned} &Effective\ Annual\ Interest\ Rate=\left ( 1+\frac{i}{n} \right )^n-1\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &i=\text{Nominal interest rate}\\ &n=\text{Number of periods}\\ \end{aligned}


​Effective Annual Interest Rate=(1+ni​)n−1where:i=Nominal interest raten=Number of periods​


   What the Effective Annual Interest Rate Tells You  

A certificate of deposit (CD), a savings account, or a loan offer may be advertised with its nominal interest rate as well as its effective annual interest rate. The nominal interest rate does not reflect the effects of compounding interest or even the fees that come with these financial products. The effective annual interest rate is the real return.



That’s why the effective annual interest rate is an important financial concept to understand. You can compare various offers accurately only if you know the effective annual interest rate of each one.


   Example of Effective Annual Interest Rate  

Consider these two offers: Investment A pays 10% interest, compounded monthly. Investment B pays 10.1%, compounded semiannually. Which is the better offer?



In both cases, the advertised interest rate is the nominal interest rate. The effective annual interest rate is calculated by adjusting the nominal interest rate for the number of compounding periods that the financial product will undergo in a period of time. In this case, that period is one year. The formula and calculations are as follows:



Effective annual interest rate = (1 + (nominal rate ÷ number of compounding periods)) ^ (number of compounding periods) - 1For investment A, this would be: 10.47% = (1 + (10% ÷ 12)) ^ 12 - 1And for investment B, it would be: 10.36% = (1 + (10.1% ÷ 2)) ^ 2 - 1



Investment B has a higher stated nominal interest rate, but the effective annual interest rate is lower than the effective rate for investment A. This is because Investment B compounds fewer times over the course of the year. If an investor were to put, say, $5 million into one of these investments, the wrong decision would cost more than $5,800 per year.






The effective annual interest rate is important because, without it, borrowers might underestimate the true cost of a loan. And investors need it to project the actual expected return on an investment, such as a corporate bond.


   Effect of the Number of Compounding Periods  

As the number of compounding periods increases, so does the effective annual interest rate. Quarterly compounding produces higher returns than semiannual compounding, monthly compounding produces higher returns than quarterly, and daily compounding produces higher returns than monthly. Below is a breakdown of the results of these different compound periods with a 10% nominal interest rate:



Semiannual = 10.250%Quarterly = 10.381%Monthly = 10.471%Daily = 10.516%


  Limits to Compounding  

There is a ceiling to the compounding phenomenon. Even if compounding occurs an infinite number of times—not just every second or microsecond, but continuously—the limit of compounding is reached.



With 10%, the continuously compounded effective annual interest rate is 10.517%. The continuous rate is calculated by raising the number “e” (approximately equal to 2.71828) to the power of the interest rate and subtracting one. In this example, it would be 2.171828 ^ (0.1) - 1.


   Effective Annual Interest Rate vs. Nominal Interest Rate  

The primary difference between the effective annual interest rate and a nominal interest rate is the compounding periods. The nominal interest rate is the stated interest rate that does not take into account the effects of compounding interest (or inflation). For this reason, it's sometimes also called the "quoted" or "advertised" interest rate.



On the other hand, the EAR takes into account the effects of compounding interest. It represents the true annual interest rate after accounting for the effect of compounding interest, and it is typically higher than the nominal interest rate.



In this context, the EAR may be used as opposed to the nominal rate when communicate rates in an attempt to lure business of transactions. For example, if a bank offers a nominal interest rate of 5% per year on a savings account, and compounds interest monthly, the effective annual interest rate will be higher than 5%. Therefore, the bank should consider promoting the account at the EAR because that rate will appear higher.






Understand the psychological, marketing approach of communicating effective annual interest rates. For industries that want to boast higher rates, EAR is best. For industries that want to downplay costs, nominal rates are best.


   Uses of Effective Annual Interest Rates  

Effective annual interest rates are used in various financial calculations and transactions. This includes but isn't necessarily limited to the following types of analysis.



Investment Analysis: As shown above, EAR is used to compare the returns on different investment opportunities. This can range from stocks, bonds, or savings accounts. By calculating the EAR of each investment, investors can determine which option will provide the highest return over a specific period though EAR does not measure risk, liquidity, or other non-return factors.
Loan and Mortgage Analysis: EAR is used to compare the costs of different loan and mortgage options. Lenders often advertise their loans and mortgages based on their nominal interest rates, but borrowers need to calculate the EAR to accurately determine the total cost of borrowing.
Credit Card Analysis: EAR is used to calculate the cost of credit card debt. Credit card companies often charge high nominal interest rates, but by calculating the EAR, consumers can see the true cost of carrying a balance on their credit card (which may intentionally have not been clearly communicated since it will be higher than the nominal rate).
Inflation Analysis: EAR is used to adjust for inflation when comparing returns on investments or loans over time. Inflation reduces the purchasing power of money, so it's important to calculate the EAR after adjusting for inflation to accurately determine the real return.


   Limitations on Effective Annual Interest Rates  

Though broadly used across the financial sector, there are several downsides of EAR. The calculation of EAR assumes that the interest rate will be constant throughout the entire period (i.e. the full year) and that there are no fluctuations in rates. However, in reality, interest rates can change frequently and rapidly, often impacting the overall rate of return. Most EAR calculations also do not consider the impact of fees such as transaction fees, service fees, or account maintenance fees. These can also have a affect the total return.



EAR calculations usually does not consider the impact of taxes on the returns. Taxes can significantly reduce the actual returns on investments or savings, and it's important to factor them into any analysis. Though a given individual may truly earn at the EAR, their true return may be reduced by 20% or higher based on what individual tax bracket they reside in.



EAR quotes are often not suitable for short-term investments as there are fewer compounding periods. More often, EAR is used for long-term investments as the impact of compounding may be significant. This approach may limit the vehicles in which EAR is calculated or communicated on.



Lastly, as the EAR calculation is simply a single rate, it does not calculate, communication, or convey any sense of risk associated with the investment or loan. Higher returns often come with higher risk, and it's important to consider the risk associated with an investment or loan before making a decision. Just because a vehicle has a higher EAR does not necessarily make it the ideal opportunity for every individual (considering varying investment preferences or risk tolerances.




How Do You Calculate the Effective Annual Interest Rate?
The effective annual interest rate is calculated using the following formula:Effective Annual Interest Rate=(1+in)n−1where:i=Nominal interest raten=Number of periods\begin{aligned} &Effective\ Annual\ Interest\ Rate=\left ( 1+\frac{i}{n} \right )^n-1\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &i=\text{Nominal interest rate}\\ &n=\text{Number of periods}\\ \end{aligned}​Effective Annual Interest Rate=(1+ni​)n−1where:i=Nominal interest raten=Number of periods​Although it can be done by hand, most investors will use a financial calculator, spreadsheet, or online program. Moreover, investment websites and other financial resources regularly publish the effective annual interest rate of a loan or investment. This figure is also often included in the prospectus and marketing documents prepared by the security issuers.




What Is the Purpose of Effective Annual Interest Rates?
The purpose of the effective annual interest rate is to make interest rates comparable regardless of their compounding periods. Investors, savers, or borrowers can take nominal rates with different compounding periods (i.e. one that compounds weekly, one that compounds monthly) to see which will be most beneficial to them.




What Is a Nominal Interest Rate?
A nominal interest rate does not take into account any fees or compounding of interest. It is often the rate that is stated by financial institutions.




Is It Better to Have a Higher EAR?
It is better for savers/investors to have a higher EAR, though it is worse for borrowers to have a higher EAR. In either situation, the EAR will likely be higher than the nominal rate; it may be more strategic to understand how the EAR has changed in recent history and what future trends look like when evaluating future transactions.


   The Bottom Line  

Banks and other financial institutions typically advertise their money market rates using the nominal interest rate, which does not take fees or compounding into account. The effective annual interest rate does take compounding into account and results in a higher rate than the nominal. The more the periods of compounding involved, the higher the ultimate effective interest rate will be.



The higher the effective annual interest rate is, the better it is for savers/investors, but worse for borrowers. When comparing interest rates on a deposit or a loan, consumers should pay attention to the effective annual interest rate and not the headline-grabbing nominal interest rate.
What Is Effective Date?  

In contract law, the effective date is the date that an agreement or transaction between or among signatories becomes binding. For an initial public offering (IPO), it is the date when shares can first be traded on an exchange.






Both parties to a contract usually need to agree on an effective date before a contract is signed.


   Understanding Effective Dates  

Business agreements and transactions are documented with effective dates, which are the times when parties to the contract begin their obligations to perform under the contract. These contracts can be in the form of employment agreements, credit or loan agreements, or commercial transaction deals. As far as the effective "date" is concerned, the parties will decide whether the contract should officially begin on the date of signing, on a date that has already passed (backdating), or on a future date.



For a company that wants to go public, the effective date occurs within 30 days after the security is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), giving time for the SEC to review the Form S-1 registration for completeness of disclosure so that prospective investors can make informed decisions. During this review period, the SEC can ask questions, request clarifications or instruct the company to fill or amend certain sections of the filing.





Key Takeaways

Effective dates are the times when parties to a contract begin their obligations to perform under the contract.An effective date can be a date in the past (backdating) or in the future.


   Examples of Effective Dates  

The IPO process is tightly controlled by the SEC. Twilio Inc. filed for an IPO on May 26, 2016. Shortly after, the company submitted an amended filing, taking care to print on the cover page of the prospectus the following:



The Registrant hereby amends this registration statement on such date or dates as may be necessary to delay its effective date until the Registrant shall file a further amendment which specifically states that this registration statement shall thereafter become effective in accordance with Section 8(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 or until the registration statement shall become effective on such date as the Securities and Exchange Commission, acting pursuant to said Section 8(a), may determine.



The effective date turned out to be June 23, 2016. Twilio's shares began trading that day.



On websites, effective dates are often found in the terms and conditions and privacy policies. Unless a company makes a special effort to create an individual agreement with a very specialized end-user or group of end-users, terms and conditions (or terms of use) and a privacy policy will apply to all users of a given website or internet platform.



Users are usually required to accept the terms and conditions when they download an associated app or log on to a website. Those terms should not be different from terms given to and read by any other use at any other time unless those terms are updated and all users are asked to approve the revised terms.



In such situations, the effective date for terms and conditions and privacy policy agreements is not when the user agrees to it, but when the terms were last updated. For these types of agreements, these dates are not indicated by “effective date” but “last revision” or “last updated.”
What Is Effective Duration?  

Effective duration is a duration calculation for bonds that have embedded options. This measure of duration takes into account the fact that expected cash flows will fluctuate as interest rates change and is, therefore, a measure of risk. Effective duration can be estimated using modified duration if a bond with embedded options behaves like an option-free bond.





Key Takeaways

Effective duration is a duration calculation for bonds that have embedded options.Cash flows are uncertain in bonds with embedded options, making it difficult to know the rate of return.The impact on cash flows as interest rates change is measured by effective duration.Effective duration calculates the expected price decline of a bond when interest rates rise by 1%. 


   Understanding Effective Duration  

A bond that has an embedded feature increases the doubtfulness of cash flows, thus making it hard for an investor to determine the rate of return of a bond. The effective duration helps calculate the volatility of interest rates in relation to the yield curve and therefore the expected cash flows from the bond. Effective duration calculates the expected price decline of a bond when interest rates rise by 1%. The value of the effective duration will always be lower than the maturity of the bond.



A bond with embedded options behaves like an option-free bond when exercising the embedded option would offer the investor no benefit. As such, the security's cash flows cannot be expected to change given a change in yield. For example, if existing interest rates were 10% and a callable bond was paying a coupon of 6%, the callable bond would behave like an option-free bond because it would not be optimal for the company to call the bond and re-issue it at a higher interest rate.






The longer the maturity of a bond, the larger its effective duration.


   Effective Duration Calculation  

The formula for effective duration contains four variables. They are:



P(0) = the bond's original price per $100 worth of par value.



P(1) = the price of the bond if the yield were to decrease by Y percent.



P(2) = the price of the bond if the yield were to increase by Y percent.



Y = the estimated change in yield used to calculate P(1) and P(2).



The complete formula for effective duration is: 



Effective duration = (P(1) - P(2)) / (2 x P(0) x Y)


   Example of Effective Duration  

As an example, assume that an investor purchases a bond for 100% par and that the bond is currently yielding 6%. Using a 10 basis-point change in yield (0.1%), it is calculated that with a yield decrease of that amount, the bond is priced at $101. It is also found that by increasing the yield by 10 basis points, the bond's price is expected to be $99.25. Given this information, the effective duration would be calculated as:



Effective duration = ($101 - $99.25) / (2 x $100 x 0.001) = $1.75 / $0.20 = 8.75



The effective duration of 8.75 means that if there were to be a change in yield of 100 basis points, or 1%, then the bond's price would be expected to change by 8.75%. This is an approximation. The estimate can be made more accurate by factoring in the bond's effective convexity.
What Is Effective Gross Income?  

Effective gross income (EGI) is the Potential Gross Rental Income plus other income minus vacancy and credit costs of a rental property.



EGI can be calculated by taking the potential gross income from an investment property, add other forms of income generated by that property, and subtract vacancy and collection losses.


   Understanding Effective Gross Income (EGI)  

EGI is a key variable in determining the value of a rental property and the true positive cash flow that property could generate. Rental cash flow is not a simple calculation but includes all forms of income generated by the property minus the realistic costs involved with rental income. If we look at the variables of the EGI formula, we can see how rental income plays out in the real world.





Key Takeaways

Effective gross income is calculated by adding the potential gross rental income with other income and subtracting vacancy and credit costs of a rental property.EGI is key in determining the value of a rental property and the true positive cash flow it can produce.Gross potential rental income is the hypothetical amount an investor would receive not considering the negative situations associated with rental properties.Some of the most common examples of other income generated from rental properties include storage units, pet fees, monthly parking permits, and on-premise vending machines.


   EGI Formula Explained  
  Gross Potential Rental Income  

Gross potential rental income is the hypothetical amount an investor would receive without any of the rental headwinds that are commonplace in the real world. It assumes that your rental property will be rented every day of the year and that renters will pay the agreed to rent documented in the lease. For example, if the agreed to rent is $2,000 a month, the gross potential rental income is $24,000.


  Other Income Generated by the Rental Property  

What constitutes “other” income generated from rental properties? Here are some of the most common sources of cash flow not derived directly from rental payments:



On-premise coin-operated laundry machinesOn-premise vending machinesMonthly parking permitsStorage UnitsPet FeesLate Fees


  Vacancy Costs  

In real life, a unit will not always be rented for the entire year. Vacancy costs are the periods between tenants where the owner is not receiving rent because there is a “vacancy.” Vacancy costs are forecasts of how long the owner believes his unit will be without a tenant. If the owner has managed investment properties for some time, this cost may be estimated based upon his/her managerial experience or industry data.


  Credit Costs  

Credit costs will occur when a rental unit is occupied, and the owner does not receive the agreed-upon rental payment. The renter has not paid the rent, or has not paid it in its entirety. As with vacancy costs, this amount will be an estimate that may be based on historical data.


   Why EGI Is Important  

EGI is essential to the real estate investor because, at the end of the day, they need to know that the property they are considering purchasing generates enough positive cash flow to cover monthly operating expenses as well as any liens or encumbrances they may have taken on to purchase the property.
What Is the Effective Interest Method of Amortization?  

The effective interest method is an accounting practice used to discount a bond. This method is used for bonds sold at a discount or premium; the amount of the bond discount or premium is amortized to interest expense over the bond's life.





Key Takeaways:

The effective interest method is used to discount, or write off, a bond.The amount of the bond discount is amortized to interest expense over the bond's life. As a bond's book value increases, the amount of interest expense increases.The effective interest method considers the impact of the bond purchase price rather than accounting only for its par value or face value.For lenders or investors, the effective interest rate reflects the actual return far better than the nominal rate.For borrowers, the effective interest rate shows costs more effectively.Unlike the real interest rate, the effective interest rate does not account for inflation.


   Understanding the Effective Interest Rate Method  

The preferred method for amortizing (or gradually expensing the discount on) a bond is the effective interest rate method. Under this method, the amount of interest expense in a given accounting period correlates with the book value of a bond at the beginning of the accounting period. Consequently, as a bond's book value increases, the amount of interest expense increases.



When a discounted bond is sold, the amount of the bond's discount must be amortized to interest expense over the life of the bond. When using the effective interest method, the debit amount in the discount on bonds payable is moved to the interest account. Therefore, the amortization causes interest expense in each accounting period to be higher than the amount of interest paid during each year of the bond's life.



For example, assume a 10-year $100,000 bond is issued with a 6% semi-annual coupon in a 10% market. The bond is sold at a discount for $95,000 on January 1, 2017. Therefore, the bond discount of $5,000, or $100,000 less $95,000, must be amortized to the interest expense account over the life of the bond.



The effective interest method of amortization causes the bond's book value to increase from $95,000 January 1, 2017, to $100,000 prior to the bond's maturity. The issuer must make interest payments of $3,000 every six months the bond is outstanding. The cash account is then credited $3,000 on June 30 and December 31.


  Evaluating a Bond's Interest  

The effective interest method is used when evaluating the interest generated by a bond because it considers the impact of the bond purchase price rather than accounting only for par value.



Although some bonds pay no interest and generate income only at maturity, most offer a set annual rate of return, called the coupon rate. The coupon rate is the amount of interest generated by the bond each year, expressed as a percentage of the bond's par value.


  A Bond's Par Value  

Par value, in turn, is simply another term for the bond's face value, or the stated value of the bond at the time of issuance. A bond with a par value of $1,000 and a coupon rate of 6% pays $60 in interest each year.



A bond's par value does not dictate its selling price. Bonds that have higher coupon rates sell for more than their par value, making them premium bonds. Conversely, bonds with lower coupon rates often sell for less than par, making them discount bonds. Because the purchase price of bonds can vary so widely, the actual rate of interest paid each year also varies.



If the bond in the above example sells for $800, then the $60 interest payments it generates each year represent a higher percentage of the purchase price than the 6% coupon rate would indicate. Although both the par value and coupon rate are fixed at issuance, the bond pays a higher rate of interest from the investor's perspective. The effective interest rate of this bond is $60 / $800 or 7.5%.



If the central bank reduced interest rates to 4%, this bond would automatically become more valuable because of its higher coupon rate. If this bond then sold for $1,200, its effective interest rate would sink to 5%. While this is still higher than newly issued 4% bonds, the increased selling price partially offsets the effects of the higher rate.


  The Rationale Behind the Effective Interest Rate  

In accounting, the effective interest method examines the relationship between an asset's book value and related interest. In lending, the effective annual interest rate might refer to an interest calculation wherein compounding occurs more than once a year. In capital finance and economics, the effective interest rate for an instrument might refer to the yield based on the purchase price.



All of these terms are related in some way. For example, effective interest rates are an important component of the effective interest method.



An instrument's effective interest rate can be contrasted with its nominal interest rate or real interest rate. The effective rate takes two factors into consideration: purchase price and compounding. For lenders or investors, the effective interest rate reflects the actual return far better than the nominal rate. For borrowers, the effective interest rate shows costs more effectively. Put another way, the effective interest rate is equal to the nominal return relative to the actual principal investment. In terms of accounting for bonds, the effective interest rate is the same as a bond's yield at the issue date.



An interest-bearing asset also has a higher effective interest rate as more compounding occurs. For example, an asset that compounds interest yearly has a lower effective rate than an asset that compounds monthly.



Unlike the real interest rate, the effective interest rate does not take inflation into account. If inflation is 1.8%, a Treasury bond (T-bond) with a 2% effective interest rate has a real interest rate of 0.2% or the effective rate minus the inflation rate.






The effective interest rate is a more accurate figure of actual interest earned on an investment or the interest paid on a loan.


  The Benefit of Effective Interest Rates  

The primary advantage of using the effective interest rate is simply that it is a more accurate figure of actual interest earned on a financial instrument or investment or of actual interest paid on a loan, such as a home mortgage.



The effective interest rate calculation is commonly used in relation to the bond market. The calculation provides the real interest rate returned in a given period, based on the actual book value of a financial instrument at the beginning of the period. If the book value of the investment declines, then the interest earned will decline also.



Investors and analysts often use effective interest rate calculations to examine premiums or discounts related to government bonds, such as the 30-year U.S. Treasury bond, although the same principles apply to corporate bond trades. When the stated interest rate on a bond is higher than the current market rate, traders are willing to pay a premium over the face value of the bond. Conversely, whenever the stated interest rate is lower than the current market interest rate for a bond, the bond trades at a discount to its face value.


  Actual Interest Earned  

The effective interest rate calculation reflects actual interest earned or paid over a specified timeframe. It is considered preferable to the straight-line method of figuring premiums or discounts as they apply to bond issues because it is a more accurate statement of interest from the beginning to the end of a chosen accounting period (the amortization period).



On a period-by-period basis, accountants regard the effective interest method as far more accurate for calculating the impact of an investment on a company's bottom line. To obtain this increased accuracy, however, the interest rate must be recalculated every month of the accounting period; these extra calculations are a disadvantage of the effective interest rate. If an investor uses the simpler straight-line method to calculate interest, then the amount charged off each month does not vary; it is the same amount each month.


   Special Considerations  

Whenever an investor buys, or a financial entity such as the U.S. Treasury or a corporation sells, a bond instrument for a price that is different from the bond's face amount, the actual interest rate earned is different from the bond's stated interest rate. The bond may be trading at a premium or at a discount to its face value. In either case, the actual effective interest rate differs from the stated rate. For example, if a bond with a face value of $10,000 is purchased for $9,500 and the interest payment is $500, then the effective interest rate earned is not 5% but 5.26% ($500 divided by $9,500).



For loans such as a home mortgage, the effective interest rate is also known as the annual percentage rate. The rate takes into account the effect of compounding interest along with all the other costs that the borrower assumes for the loan.
What Is the Effective Tax Rate?  

The term effective tax rate refers to the percent of income that an individual or corporation owes/pays in taxes. The effective tax rate for individuals is the average rate at which their earned income, such as wages, and unearned income, such as stock dividends, are taxed. The effective tax rate for a corporation is the average rate at which its pre-tax profits are taxed, while the statutory tax rate is the legal percentage established by law.





Key Takeaways

The effective tax rate represents the percentage of their taxable income that individuals pay in taxes.For corporations, the effective corporate tax rate is the rate they pay on their pre-tax profits.Effective tax rate typically refers only to federal income tax.The effective tax rate can be computed to reflect an individual's or a company's total tax burden.Individuals are taxed at differing rates that rise as income hits certain thresholds under marginal tax rates.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   How to Calculate the Effective Tax Rate  

The effective tax rates for individuals and corporations look like this when they're expressed as formulas:









For an Individual 
ETR = Total Tax ÷ Taxable Income 


For a Corporation 
ETR = Total Tax ÷ Earnings Before Taxes  






So if you want to calculate your effective tax rate, here's how you do it:



An individual can calculate their effective tax rate by looking at their Form 1040 and dividing the total tax, which is the number found on line 24, by the taxable income figure found on line 15 and multiplying the result by 100.
For corporations, the effective tax rate is computed by dividing total tax expenses by the company's earnings before taxes.


   How the Effective Tax Rate Works  

As noted above, the effective tax rate is the average tax rate of a taxpaying entity. This includes both individual taxpayers and corporations. The effective tax rate is expressed as a percentage.



The effective tax rate typically refers only to federal income taxes and doesn't take into account any other types of taxes, including:



State and local income taxes
Sales taxes
Property taxes
Other types of taxes an individual might pay



To determine their overall effective tax rate, individuals can add up their total tax burden and divide that by their taxable income. This calculation can be useful when trying to compare the effective tax rates of two or more individuals, or what a particular individual might pay in taxes if they lived in a high-tax vs. a low-tax state—a consideration for many people thinking about relocating in retirement.






Investors may use effective tax rate as a profitability indicator for a company, but it can be difficult to determine the reason for year-to-year fluctuations in the ETR.


   Effective Tax Rate vs. Marginal Tax Rate  

The effective tax rate is a more accurate representation of a person's or corporation's overall tax liability than their marginal tax rate, and it is typically lower. When considering a marginal versus an effective tax rate, bear in mind that the marginal tax rate refers to the highest tax bracket into which their income falls.



In a graduated or progressive income-tax system, like the one in the United States, income is taxed at differing rates that rise as income hits certain thresholds. Two individuals or companies with income in the same upper marginal tax bracket may end up with very different effective tax rates, depending on how much of their income was in the top bracket.


   Federal Tax Brackets  

Federal tax brackets are determined and passed into law. These brackets are overseen in the U.S. by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The amount of income and tax filing status determines the tax brackets in which individual taxpayers fall.



The table below highlights the current tax brackets in the United States.













2023 Federal Tax Brackets




 
Single 
Married Filing Separately
Married Filing Jointly
Surviving Spouse
Head of Household


10% 
$0 to $11,000 
$0 to $11,000 
$0 to $22,000
$0 to $22,000
$0 to $15,700


12% 
$11,000 to $44,725 
$11,000 to $44,725 
$22,000 to $89,450
$22,000 to $89,450
$15,700 to $59,850


22%
$44,725 to $95,375
$44,725 to $95,375
$89,450 to $190,750
$89,450 to $190,750
$59,850 to $95,350


24%
$95,375 to $182,100
$95,375 to $182,100
$190,750 to $364,200
$190,750 to $364,200
$95,350 to $182,100


32%
$182,100 to $231,250
$182,100 to $231,250
$364,200 to $462,500
$364,200 to $462,500
$182,100 to $231,250


35%
$231,250 to $578,125
$231,250 to $346,875
$462,500 to $693,750
$462,500 to $693,750
$231,250 to $578,100


37%
$578,125 or more
$346,875 or more
$693,750 or more
$693,750 or more
$578,100 or more





   Example of an Effective Tax Rate  

Imagine, for example, a graduated tax system where income under $100,000 is taxed at 10%, income between $100,000 and $300,000 is taxed at 15%, and income over $300,000 is taxed at 25%. Now consider two individuals who both hit the upper tax bracket of 25%, although one had a taxable income of $500,000, while the other had a taxable income of $360,000.



Both individuals would pay 10% on their first $100,000 of income, or $10,000. Both would then pay 15% percent on their income between $100,000 and $300,000, or $30,000 (15% of $200,000).



Finally, both would also pay 25% on their earnings over the $300,000 threshold. For the individual with $360,000 in taxable income, that would come to $15,000 (25% of $60,000). But for the individual with $500,000 in taxable income, the tax would be $50,000 (25% of $200,000). Their total tax obligations would be $55,000 and $90,000, respectively.



While both individuals could say they're in the 25% bracket, the one with the higher income has an effective tax rate of 18% ($90,000 in tax divided by $500,000 in income), while the other's effective tax rate is 15.3% ($55,000 divided by $360,000).




How Do I Calculate My Effective Tax Rate?
You can easily calculate your effective tax rate as an individual taxpayer. Do this by dividing your total tax by your taxable income. To get the rate, multiply by 100. You can find your total tax on line 24 of Form 1040 and your taxable income on line 15 of the form.




What's the Difference Between the Effective and Marginal Tax Rate?
An effective tax rate is the average tax rate for an individual or corporate taxpayer. As such, it's the percentage of taxes owed from the taxpayer's annual income. A marginal tax rate, on the other hand, is the total amount of tax levied on different levels of income. This means that a taxpayer's tax rate gets higher as their income rises. Taxpayers are divided into tax brackets under marginal tax systems where the first level of income is charged a lower rate. Any income earned above that incurs a higher rate.




Which Is Lower: the Effective Tax Rate or the Marginal Tax Rate?
An individual's effective tax rate is lower than the marginal rate. That's because the marginal tax rate breaks up your income into different levels. The first level of income incurs a lower tax rate while higher levels of income are taxed at the highest rate. Any amounts that fall in between are charged taxes based on levels in between.


   The Bottom Line  

Your effective tax rate is the percentage of tax you owe on your taxable income. This is based on brackets set and maintained by the IRS. You can easily figure out your effective tax rate by dividing the total tax by your taxable income from Form 1040. For corporations, the effective tax rate is calculated by dividing the total tax by earnings before interest. If you're unsure about anything related to your taxes, make sure you consult a tax advisor or professional who can guide you in the right direction.



Correction—Nov. 3, 2022: A previous version of this article misstated that taxpayers can calculate their effective tax rate by dividing the figure found on line 16 of Form 1040 by the figure found on line 11b on Form 1040. The correct way to calculate your effective tax rate is by dividing the figure from line 24 or your total tax by the figure from line 15, which is your taxable income then multiplying that figure by 100.
What Is the Effective Yield?  

The effective yield is the return on a bond that has its interest payments (or coupons) reinvested at the same rate by the bondholder. Effective yield is the total yield an investor receives, in contrast to the nominal yield—which is the stated interest rate of the bond's coupon. Effective yield takes into account the power of compounding on investment returns, while nominal yield does not.





Key Takeaways

The effective yield is calculated as the bond’s coupon payments divided by the bond’s current market valueEffective yield assumes coupon payments are reinvested. Reinvested coupons mean the effective yield of a bond is higher than the nominal (stated coupon) yield. To compare a bond's effective yield and its yield-to-maturity, the effective yield must be converted to an effective annual yield. Bonds trading with an effective yield higher than the yield-to-maturity sell at a premium. If the effective yield is lower than the yield-to-maturity, the bond trades at a discount.


   Understanding Effective Yield  

The effective yield is a measure of the coupon rate, which is the interest rate stated on a bond and expressed as a percentage of the face value. Coupon payments on a bond are typically paid semi-annually by the issuer to the bond investor. This means that the investor will receive two coupon payments per year. Effective yield is calculated by dividing the coupon payments by the current market value of the bond.



Effective yield is one way that bondholders can measure their yields on bonds. There's also the current yield, which represents a bond’s annual return based on its annual coupon payments and current price, as opposed to the face value.






Though similar, current yield doesn't assume coupon reinvestment, as effective yield does.



The drawback of using the effective yield is that it assumes that coupon payments can be reinvested in another vehicle paying the same interest rate. This also means that it assumes the bonds are selling at par. This is not always possible, considering the fact that interest rates change periodically, falling and rising due to certain factors in the economy.


   Effective Yield vs. Yield-to-Maturity (YTM)  

The yield-to-maturity (YTM) is the rate of return earned on a bond that is held until maturity. To compare the effective yield to the yield-to-maturity (YTM), convert the YTM to an effective annual yield. If the YTM is greater than the bond’s effective yield, then the bond is trading at a discount to par. On the other hand, if the YTM is less than the effective yield, the bond is selling at a premium.



YTM is what's called a bond equivalent yield (BEY). Investors can find a more precise annual yield once they know the BEY for a bond if they account for the time value of money in the calculation. This is known as an effective annual yield (EAY).


   Example of Effective Yield  

If an investor holds a bond with a face value of $1,000 and a 5% coupon paid semi-annually in March and September, he will receive (5%/2) x $1,000 = $25 twice a year for a total of $50 in coupon payments.



However, the effective yield is a measure of return on a bond assuming the coupon payments are reinvested. If payments are reinvested, then his effective yield will be greater than the current yield or nominal yield, due to the effect of compounding. Reinvesting the coupon will produce a higher yield because interest is earned on the interest payments. The investor in the example above will receive a little more than $50 annually using the effective yield evaluation. The formula for calculating effective yield is as follows:



i = [1 + (r/n)]n – 1



Where:



i = effective yieldr = nominal raten = number of payments per year



Following our initial example presented above, the investor’s effective yield on his 5% coupon bond will be:



i = [1 + (0.05/2)]2 – 1i = 1.0252 – 1i = 0.0506, or 5.06%



Note that since the bond pays interest semi-annually, payments will be made twice to the bondholder per year; hence, the number of payments per year is two.



From the calculation above, the effective yield of 5.06% is clearly higher than the coupon rate of 5% since compounding is taken into consideration.



To understand this another way, let’s scrutinize the details of the coupon payment. In March, the investor receives 2.5% x $1,000 = $25. In September, due to interest compounding, he will receive (2.5% x $1,000) + (2.5% x $25) = 2.5% x $1,025 = $25.625. This translates to an annual payment of $25 in March + $25.625 in September = $50.625. The real interest rate is, therefore, $50.625/$1,000 = 5.06%.
What Is Efficiency?  

The term "efficiency" refers to the peak level of performance that uses the least amount of inputs to achieve the highest amount of output. Efficiency requires reducing the number of unnecessary resources used to produce a given output, including personal time and energy.



Efficiency is a measurable concept that can be determined using the ratio of useful output to total input. Increased efficiency minimizes the waste of resources such as physical materials, energy, and time while accomplishing the desired output.





Key Takeaways

Efficiency occurs when you reduce waste to produce a given number of goods or services.You can measure efficiency by dividing total output by total input.There are a number of different types of efficiency, including economic efficiency, market efficiency, and operational efficiency.Efficiency is an important attribute because all inputs are scarce.You can measure the efficiency of your investments using the return on investment figure.












Investopedia / Yurle Villegas


   Understanding Efficiency  

The term efficiency can be defined as the ability to achieve an end goal with little to no waste, effort, or energy. Being efficient means you can achieve your results by putting the resources you have in the best way possible. Put simply, something is efficient if nothing is wasted and all processes are optimized. This includes the use of money, human capital, production equipment, and energy sources.



Efficiency can be used in a variety of ways to describe various optimization processes. As such, analyzing efficiency can help reduce costs and increase bottom lines. For instance:



Corporations can measure the efficiencies of their production process, which can help them cut down costs while increasing output, which can lead to higher sales and revenue.
Consumers can purchase energy-efficient appliances to cut down their energy bills while reducing greenhouse gases.
Investors can determine the efficiency of their investments by using the return on investment (ROI), which highlights an investment's return relative to how much it costs.



As noted above, efficiency is measurable and can be expressed as a ratio or percentage. You can measure it by using the following formula:



Efficiency = Output ÷ Input



Output (or work output) is the total amount of useful work completed without accounting for any waste and spoilage. If you want to express efficiency as a percentage, simply by multiplying the ratio by 100.






Efficiency measures any performance that uses minimal inputs to get the maximum number of outputs. Put simply, you're efficient if you get more by using less.


   Types of Efficiency  

Efficiencies can be divided into many different categories. We've outlined some of the key types below, including economic efficiency, market efficiency, and operational efficiency.


  Economic Efficiency  

Economic efficiency refers to the optimization of resources to best serve each person in that economic state. No set threshold determines the effectiveness of an economy, but indicators include goods brought to market at the lowest possible cost and labor that provides the greatest possible output.


  Market Efficiency  

Market efficiency describes how well prices integrate available information. This means that markets are efficient when all information is already incorporated into prices. There is no way to beat the market since there are no undervalued or overvalued securities available.



Market efficiency was formalized in 1970 by economist Eugene Fama, whose efficient market hypothesis (EMH) states that an investor can't outperform the market. Fama also stated that market anomalies should not exist because they will immediately be arbitraged away.


  Operational Efficiency  

Operational efficiency measures how well profits are earned as a function of operating costs. The greater the operational efficiency, the more profitable the firm or investment. This is because the entity is able to generate greater income or returns for the same or lower cost than an alternative. In financial markets, operational efficiency occurs when transaction costs and fees are reduced.


   A Historical Look  

Breakthroughs in economic efficiency often coincide with the invention of new tools that complemented labor, including:



The horse collar, which redistributes the weight on a horse's back so it can carry large loads without being overburdened
The steam engines and motor vehicles that emerged during the Industrial Revolution, which allowed people to travel longer distances in less time and contributed to travel and trade efficiencies
Cheaper and more effective sources of power like fossil fuels



We also saw the emergence of efficiencies in time. Consider the factory system, in which each participant focuses on one task in a factory line. This system increased operational output while saving time.



Many scientists developed practices to optimize specific task performance. One famous example is the novel Cheaper by the Dozen by Frank Bunker Gilbreth, Jr. and Ernestine Gilbreth Carey. In the book, Gilbreth Jr. develops systems to maximize efficiency in even the most mundane tasks, such as brushing your teeth.


   The Impacts of Efficiency  

Efficiency is an important attribute because all inputs are scarce. Time, money, and raw materials are limited, and it is important to conserve them while maintaining an acceptable level of output.



An efficient society is better able to serve its citizens and function competitively. Goods that are produced efficiently are sold at a lower price. Advances as a result of efficiency have facilitated higher standards of living such as supplying homes with electricity, running water, and giving people the ability to travel.



Efficiency reduces hunger and malnutrition because goods are transported farther and quicker. Advances in efficiency also allow greater productivity in a shorter amount of time. 


   Example of Efficiency  

Industry 4.0 is the Fourth Industrial Revolution characterized by digitalization. Factory processes, manufacturing, and service industries are all more efficient, thanks to more powerful computers, cloud computing, the Industrial Internet of Things (IoT), data analytics, robotics, artificial intelligence, and machine learning.



For example, data analytics can be applied in an industrial setting to inform factory or plant managers when machinery needs maintenance or replacement. This predictive maintenance can substantially reduce operational costs.




How Do You Calculate Efficiency?
Efficiency can be expressed as a ratio by using the following formula: Output ÷ Input.Output, or work output, is the total amount of useful work completed without accounting for any waste and spoilage.You can also express efficiency as a percentage by multiplying the ratio by 100.




What Is Allocative Efficiency?
Allocative efficiency occurs in an efficient market. This is where capital is allocated in the best way possible to benefit each party involved. It allows for the even distribution of goods and services, financial services, and other key elements to consumers, businesses, and other entities so they can be used in the best way possible. Allocative efficiency, which is also referred to as allocated efficiency, facilitates decision-making and economic growth.




What Is Peak Efficiency?
Peak energy is the highest level of efficiency you can reach. This kind of efficiency occurs when all capital, resources, and individual participants are properly allocated and fully functional to the best of their ability. For instance, peak economic efficiency occurs when the economy is productive and the standard of living for citizens is high.




What Is Energy Efficiency?
Energy efficiency occurs when you use less energy to achieve the same result. Being energy efficient reduces energy waste and greenhouse gases, as well energy demand. It also helps cut down on bills and overall costs using new and more efficient ways to consume energy.For example, consumers can purchase energy-efficient appliances to cut down on their energy bills while corporations may swap out older production equipment with new, more efficient ones to increase output while cutting down on production costs.




What Is a Measure of Efficiency in an Investments?
An investment's measure of efficiency is its return on investment. This is the way investors and financial professionals measure how efficiently an investment makes a profit. This metric can also be used to compare one investment to another or multiple investments in a particular class, such as mutual funds that invest in the same asset class. ROI can be expressed as a ratio by dividing an investment's return by its cost. It can also be expressed as a percentage by multiplying the result by 100.


   The Bottom Line  

When you're efficient, it means that you're able to achieve your goals with as little money and effort as possible without producing too much waste. Essentially, you use very little to get the biggest result possible.



Efficiency is important for businesses and individuals alike. Businesses that run efficiently can reduce their costs and improve their bottom lines. Similarly, consumers who make choices to become more efficient, such as choosing energy-efficient appliances or investments that have the best possible returns while serving their investment needs, end up saving money and making more in the long run.



If you need proof, just use the formula noted above and use it as a guideline to help you make some important decisions about your financial health.
What is an Efficiency Ratio?  

The efficiency ratio is typically used to analyze how well a company uses its assets and liabilities internally. An efficiency ratio can calculate the turnover of receivables, the repayment of liabilities, the quantity and usage of equity, and the general use of inventory and machinery. This ratio can also be used to track and analyze the performance of commercial and investment banks.












Investopedia / Candra Huff


   What Does an Efficiency Ratio Tell You?  

Efficiency ratios, also known as activity ratios, are used by analysts to measure the performance of a company's short-term or current performance. All these ratios use numbers in a company's current assets or current liabilities, quantifying the operations of the business.



An efficiency ratio measures a company's ability to use its assets to generate income. For example, an efficiency ratio often looks at various aspects of the company, such as the time it takes to collect cash from customers or the amount of time it takes to convert inventory to cash. This makes efficiency ratios important, because an improvement in the efficiency ratios usually translates to improved profitability.



These ratios can be compared with peers in the same industry and can identify businesses that are better managed relative to the others. Some common efficiency ratios are accounts receivable turnover, fixed asset turnover, sales to inventory, sales to net working capital, accounts payable to sales and stock turnover ratio.


   Efficiency Ratios for Banks  

In the banking industry, an efficiency ratio has a specific meaning. For banks, the efficiency ratio is non-interest expenses/revenue. This shows how well the bank's managers control their overhead (or "back office") expenses. Like the efficiency ratios above, this allows analysts to assess the performance of commercial and investment banks.


   The Efficiency Ratio for Banks Is:  

﻿















Efficiency Ratio


=





Expenses


†





Revenue


















†


not including interest








\begin{aligned} &\text{Efficiency Ratio} = \frac{\text{Expenses}^{\dagger}}{\text{Revenue}} \\ &\dagger \text{not including interest}\\ \end{aligned}


​Efficiency Ratio=RevenueExpenses†​†not including interest​﻿



Since a bank's operating expenses are in the numerator and its revenue is in the denominator, a lower efficiency ratio means that a bank is operating better.



An efficiency ratio of 50% or under is considered optimal. If the efficiency ratio increases, it means a bank's expenses are increasing or its revenues are decreasing.



For example, Bank X reported quarterly earnings and it had an efficiency ratio of 57.1%, which was lower than the 63.2% ratio it reported for the same quarter last year. This means the company's operations became more efficient, increasing its assets by $80 million for the quarter.
What Is the Efficient Frontier?  

The efficient frontier is the set of optimal portfolios that offer the highest expected return for a defined level of risk or the lowest risk for a given level of expected return. Portfolios that lie below the efficient frontier are sub-optimal because they do not provide enough return for the level of risk. Portfolios that cluster to the right of the efficient frontier are sub-optimal because they have a higher level of risk for the defined rate of return.





Key Takeaways

The efficient frontier comprises investment portfolios that offer the highest expected return for a specific level of risk.The standard deviation of returns in a portfolio measures investment risk and consistency in investment earnings.Lower covariance between portfolio securities results in lower portfolio standard deviation.Successful optimization of the return versus risk paradigm should place a portfolio along the efficient frontier line.Optimal portfolios that comprise the efficient frontier usually exhibit a higher degree of diversification.






   Understanding the Efficient Frontier  

The efficient frontier theory was introduced by Nobel Laureate Harry Markowitz in 1952 and is a cornerstone of modern portfolio theory (MPT). The efficient frontier rates portfolios (investments) on a scale of return (y-axis) versus risk (x-axis). The compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of an investment is commonly used as the return component while standard deviation (annualized) depicts the risk metric.



The efficient frontier graphically represents portfolios that maximize returns for the risk assumed. Returns are dependent on the investment combinations that make up the portfolio. A security's standard deviation is synonymous with risk. Ideally, an investor seeks to fill a portfolio with securities offering exceptional returns but with a combined standard deviation that is lower than the standard deviations of the individual securities.



The less synchronized the securities (lower covariance), the lower the standard deviation. If this mix of optimizing the return versus risk paradigm is successful, then that portfolio should line up along the efficient frontier line.



A key finding of the concept was the benefit of diversification resulting from the curvature of the efficient frontier. The curvature is integral in revealing how diversification improves the portfolio's risk/reward profile. It also reveals that there is a diminishing marginal return to risk.
















Adding more risk to a portfolio does not gain an equal amount of return—optimal portfolios that comprise the efficient frontier tend to have a higher degree of diversification than the sub-optimal ones, which are typically less diversified.


   Criticisms of the Efficient Frontier  

The efficient frontier and modern portfolio theory have many assumptions that may not properly represent reality. For example, one of the assumptions is that asset returns follow a normal distribution.



In reality, securities may experience returns (also known as tail risk) that are more than three standard deviations away from the mean. Consequently, asset returns are said to follow a leptokurtic distribution or heavy-tailed distribution.



Additionally, Markowitz posits several assumptions in his theory, such as that investors are rational and avoid risk when possible, that there are not enough investors to influence market prices, and that investors have unlimited access to borrowing and lending money at the risk-free interest rate.



However, reality proves that the market includes irrational and risk-seeking investors, there are large market participants who could influence market prices, and there are investors who do not have unlimited access to borrowing and lending money.


   Special Considerations  

One assumption in investing is that a higher degree of risk means a higher potential return. Conversely, investors who take on a low degree of risk have a low potential return. According to Markowitz's theory, there is an optimal portfolio that could be designed with a perfect balance between risk and return.



The optimal portfolio does not simply include securities with the highest potential returns or low-risk securities. The optimal portfolio aims to balance securities with the greatest potential returns with an acceptable degree of risk or securities with the lowest degree of risk for a given level of potential return. The points on the plot of risk versus expected returns where optimal portfolios lie are known as the efficient frontier.



Assume a risk-seeking investor uses the efficient frontier to select investments. The investor would select securities that lie on the right end of the efficient frontier. The right end of the efficient frontier includes securities that are expected to have a high degree of risk coupled with high potential returns, which is suitable for highly risk-tolerant investors. Conversely, securities that lie on the left end of the efficient frontier would be suitable for risk-averse investors.




Why Is the Efficient Frontier Important?
The curvature of the efficient frontier graphically shows the benefit of diversification and how this can improve a portfolio's risk versus reward profile.




What Is the Optimal Portfolio?
An optimal portfolio is one designed with a perfect balance of risk and return. The optimal portfolio looks to balance securities that offer the greatest possible returns with acceptable risk or the securities with the lowest risk given a certain return.




How Is the Efficient Frontier Constructed?
The efficient frontier rates portfolios on a  coordinate plane. Plotted on the x-axis is the risk, while return is plotted on the y-axis—annualized standard deviation is typically used to measure risk, while compound annual growth rate (CAGR) is used for return.


   The Bottom Line  

The efficient frontier comprises investment portfolios that offer the highest expected return for a specific level of risk. It represents graphically portfolios that maximize returns for the risk assumed, showing the benefit of diversification. To use the efficient frontier, a risk-seeking investor selects investments that fall on the right side of the frontier. Meanwhile, a more conservative investor would pick investments that lie on the left side of the frontier.
What Is the Efficient Market Hypothesis (EMH)?  

The efficient market hypothesis (EMH), alternatively known as the efficient market theory, is a hypothesis that states that share prices reflect all information and consistent alpha generation is impossible.



According to the EMH, stocks always trade at their fair value on exchanges, making it impossible for investors to purchase undervalued stocks or sell stocks for inflated prices. Therefore, it should be impossible to outperform the overall market through expert stock selection or market timing, and the only way an investor can obtain higher returns is by purchasing riskier investments.





Key Takeaways

The efficient market hypothesis (EMH) or theory states that share prices reflect all information.The EMH hypothesizes that stocks trade at their fair market value on exchanges.Proponents of EMH posit that investors benefit from investing in a low-cost, passive portfolio.Opponents of EMH believe that it is possible to beat the market and that stocks can deviate from their fair market values.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Understanding the Efficient Market Hypothesis (EMH)  

Although it is a cornerstone of modern financial theory, the EMH is highly controversial and often disputed. Believers argue it is pointless to search for undervalued stocks or to try to predict trends in the market through either fundamental or technical analysis.



Theoretically, neither technical nor fundamental analysis can produce risk-adjusted excess returns (alpha) consistently, and only inside information can result in outsized risk-adjusted returns.





$419,183

The June 27, 2022 share price of the most expensive stock in the world: Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Class A (BRK.A).



While academics point to a large body of evidence in support of EMH, an equal amount of dissension also exists. For example, investors such as Warren Buffett have consistently beaten the market over long periods, which by definition is impossible according to the EMH.



Detractors of the EMH also point to events such as the 1987 stock market crash, when the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) fell by over 20% in a single day, and asset bubbles as evidence that stock prices can seriously deviate from their fair values.






The assumption that markets are efficient is a cornerstone of modern financial economics—one that has come under question in practice.






   Special Considerations  

Proponents of the Efficient Market Hypothesis conclude that, because of the randomness of the market, investors could do better by investing in a low-cost, passive portfolio.



Data compiled by Morningstar Inc., in its June 2019 Active/Passive Barometer study, supports the EMH. Morningstar compared active managers’ returns in all categories against a composite made of related index funds and exchange-traded funds (ETFs). The study found that over a 10 year period beginning June 2009, only 23% of active managers were able to outperform their passive peers. Better success rates were found in foreign equity funds and bond funds. Lower success rates were found in US large-cap funds. In general, investors have fared better by investing in low-cost index funds or ETFs.



While a percentage of active managers do outperform passive funds at some point, the challenge for investors is being able to identify which ones will do so over the long term. Less than 25 percent of the top-performing active managers can consistently outperform their passive manager counterparts over time.




What Does It Mean for Markets to Be Efficient?
Market efficiency refers to how well prices reflect all available information. The efficient markets hypothesis (EMH) argues that markets are efficient, leaving no room to make excess profits by investing since everything is already fairly and accurately priced. This implies that there is little hope of beating the market, although you can match market returns through passive index investing.




Has the Efficient Markets Hypothesis Any Validity?
The validity of the EMH has been questioned on both theoretical and empirical grounds. There are investors who have beaten the market, such as Warren Buffett, whose investment strategy focused on undervalued stocks made billions and set an example for numerous followers. There are portfolio managers who have better track records than others, and there are investment houses with more renowned research analysis than others. EMH proponents, however, argue that those who outperform the market do so not out of skill but out of luck, due to the laws of probability: at any given time in a market with a large number of actors, some will outperform the mean, while others will underperform.




Can Markets Be Inefficient?
There are certainly some markets that are less efficient than others. An inefficient market is one in which an asset's prices do not accurately reflect its true value, which may occur for several reasons. Market inefficiencies may exist due to information asymmetries, a lack of buyers and sellers (i.e. low liquidity), high transaction costs or delays, market psychology, and human emotion, among other reasons. Inefficiencies often lead to deadweight losses. In reality, most markets do display some level of inefficiencies, and in the extreme case an inefficient market can be an example of a market failure.Accepting the EMH in its purest (strong) form may be difficult as it states that all information in a market, whether public or private, is accounted for in a stock's price. However, modifications of EMH exist to reflect the degree to which it can be applied to markets:Semi-strong efficiency - This form of EMH implies all public (but not non-public) information is calculated into a stock's current share price. Neither fundamental nor technical analysis can be used to achieve superior gains.Weak efficiency - This type of EMH claims that all past prices of a stock are reflected in today's stock price. Therefore, technical analysis cannot be used to predict and beat the market.




What Can Make a Market More Efficient?
The more participants are engaged in a market, the more efficient it will become as more people compete and bring more and different types of information to bear on the price. As markets become more active and liquid, arbitrageurs will also emerge, profiting by correcting small inefficiencies whenever they might arise and quickly restoring efficiency.
What Is Egalitarianism?  

Egalitarianism is a philosophical perspective that emphasizes equality and equal treatment across gender, religion, economic status, and political beliefs. Egalitarianism may focus on income inequality and distribution, which are ideas that influenced the development of various economic and political systems. Egalitarianism also looks at how individuals are treated under the law.



Karl Marx used egalitarianism as the starting point in the creation of his Marxist philosophy and John Locke considered egalitarianism when he proposed that individuals had natural rights.





Key Takeaways

Egalitarianism is a philosophy based on equality, namely that all people are equal and deserve equal treatment in all things.As an idea, it can be looked at in terms of its implications for individuals in both an economic and legal capacity.Economic egalitarianism, which argues that all should have access to wealth, is the basis for both Marxism and socialism.Legal egalitarianism says that everyone must follow the same laws, with no special legal protections for one over another.Many countries in the world have aspects of egalitarianism woven into the fabric of their societies.


   Understanding Egalitarianism  

One of the main tenets of egalitarianism is that all people are fundamentally equal. Everyone should be treated equally and have equal opportunities and access in society, no matter their gender, race, or religion.



Egalitarianism can be examined from a social perspective that considers ways to reduce economic inequalities or a political perspective that considers ways to ensure the equal treatment and rights of diverse groups of people.


   Types of Egalitarianism  

Philosophers break down egalitarianism into several types.


  Economic egalitarianism  

Proponents of economic egalitarianism or material egalitarianism believe every member of society should have equal access to wealth and the ability to make money, whether that be through investments, entrepreneurial efforts, or income from employment, and that this should translate into everyone having similar levels of income and money. This line of thinking forms the basis for Marxism and socialism.



Starting a business can be attempted by anyone and represents an opportunity to make money. The entrepreneur will typically seek financing and invest the capital in a business enterprise. Customers, meanwhile, have an equal opportunity to buy the company's products or services. They have an equal choice to respond to the company's prices and quality of goods or services to make an informed decision about a purchase.



A few things limit economic egalitarianism in a free market society. Money supply, inflation, lack of jobs, and consumer prices may limit economic activity for people who lack wealth. Legal constraints also affect economic egalitarianism.






Economic egalitarianism in a free market is the belief that everyone should have an equal opportunity to become wealthy by investing in and supporting entrepreneurship and employment.


  Legal egalitarianism  

Legal egalitarianism is the principle that everyone is subject to the same laws, meaning no group has unique legal protections over another.


  Moral egalitarianism  

Moral egalitarianism is the idea that all human beings must have equal respect and concern for everyone else. It is the idea that humanity is connected and that everyone deserves human rights. Of course, the definition of equal respect or fairness may vary and depend on individuals, making it hard to enforce true egalitarianism.


  Political egalitarianism  

People who believe in political egalitarianism espouse democracy, demanding that every person has equal standing concerning governmental power.



Political egalitarianism posits that each individual has the same social power or influence over politics in work, government, and daily life. For example, principals have the authority over their teachers and staff to make choices for the school and grade. However, under political egalitarianism, every educator at the school would have the same level of authority and power.


  Racial egalitarianism  

Racial egalitarianism is the idea that everyone should have equal respect for one another no matter their race or ethnicity.


  Gender egalitarianism  

Gender egalitarianism believes that men and women, no matter their gender, are equal and must be treated as such.



Gender egalitarianism supports equal rights, roles, and responsibilities for men and women. It does not support the idea that there is "women's work" and "men's work" or gender-specific roles in business and the home. In a society where there is gender egalitarianism in families, parents play equal parts within the family structure.




Is Egalitarianism the Same as Socialism?
Not exactly. Socialism is an economic and political system that, in short, offers a specific set of ideas on how society can achieve egalitarianism.




What Is an Egalitarian Society?
In an egalitarian society, all are considered equal, regardless of gender, race, religion, or age. There is not a class system in an egalitarian society but relatively equal access to income and wealth. Some societies are more egalitarian than others, and some areas of egalitarianism are part of economies, politics, and laws.




What Is the Most Egalitarian Society?
There isn't data for "the most egalitarian society" in the world, but in terms of economic inequality, European countries Slovenia, Czech Republic, and Slovakia rank as having the least wealth inequality in 2022.




Are Equality and Equity the Same Thing?
No. Equality means giving everyone exactly the same resources or opportunities. Equity involves giving each person the resources and opportunities they need to achieve an equal outcome for everyone.




How Is Feminism Different From Egalitarianism?
Feminism and egalitarianism have shared aspects, but they are not the same thing. Feminism is the belief that gender discrimination has to be eliminated for men and women to be considered equal. Egalitarianism is the idea that everyone is created equal and deserves equal rights.
What Is Elastic?  

Elastic is a term used in economics to describe a change in the behavior of buyers and sellers in response to a single variable like a change in price or other variables for a good or service.



In other words, demand elasticity or inelasticity for a product or good is determined by how much demand for the product changes as the price increases or decreases. An inelastic product is one that consumers continue to purchase even after a change in price. The elasticity of a good or service can vary according to the number of close substitutes available, its relative cost, and the amount of time that has elapsed since the price change occurred.





Key Takeaways

Companies that operate in highly competitive industries offer products and services that are elastic, as the companies tend to be price-takers.When the price of a good or service has reached the point of elasticity, sellers and buyers quickly adjust their demand for that good or service.Elasticity is an important economic measure, particularly for sellers of goods or services, because the reflects how much of a good or service buyers will consume when the price increases or decreases.Products or services that are elastic are either unnecessary or can be easily replaced with a substitute.


   Elastic Explained  

Companies that operate in fiercely competitive industries provide goods or services that are elastic because these companies tend to be price-takers or those that must accept prevailing prices. When the price of a good or service reaches the point of elasticity, sellers and buyers quickly adjust their demand for that good or service. The opposite of elastic is inelastic. When a good or service is inelastic, sellers and buyers are not as likely to adjust their demand for a good or service when the price changes.



Elasticity is an important economic measure, particularly for the sellers of goods or services, because it indicates how much of a good or service buyers consume when the price changes. When a product is elastic, a change in price quickly results in a change in the quantity demanded. When a good is inelastic, there is little change in the quantity of demand even with the change of the good's price. The change that is observed for an elastic good is an increase in demand when the price decreases and a decrease in demand when the price increases.



Elasticity also communicates important information to consumers. If the market price of an elastic good decreases, firms are likely to reduce the number of goods or services they are willing to supply. If the market price goes up, firms are likely to increase the number of goods they are willing to sell. This is important for consumers who need a product and are concerned with potential scarcity.


   Real-World Examples of Elastic Goods  

Typically, goods that are elastic are either unnecessary goods or services or those for which competitors offer readily available substitute goods and services. The airline industry is elastic because it is a competitive industry. If one airline decides to increase the price of its fares, consumers can use another airline, and the airline that increased its fares will see a decrease in the demand for its services. Meanwhile, gasoline is an example of a relatively inelastic good because many consumers have no choice but to buy fuel for their vehicles, regardless of the market price.
What Is Elasticity?  

Elasticity is a measure of a variable's sensitivity to a change in other variables—or a single variable. Most commonly this sensitivity is the change in quantity demanded relative to changes in other factors, such as price.



In business and economics, price elasticity refers to the degree to which individuals, consumers, or producers change their demand or the amount supplied in response to price or income changes. It is predominantly used to assess the change in consumer demand as a result of a change in a good or service's price.





Key Takeaways

Elasticity is an economic measure of how sensitive one economic factor is to changes in another.For example, changes in supply or demand to the change in price, or changes in demand to changes in income.If demand for a good or service is relatively static even when the price changes, demand is said to be inelastic, and its coefficient of elasticity is less than 1.0.Examples of elastic goods include clothing or electronics, while inelastic goods are items like food and prescription drugs.Cross elasticity measures the change in demand for one good given price changes in a different, related good.












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   How Elasticity Works  

When the value of elasticity is greater than 1.0, it suggests that the demand for the good or service is more than proportionally affected by the change in its price. A value that is less than 1.0 suggests that the demand is relatively insensitive to price, or inelastic.



Inelastic means that when the price goes up, consumers’ buying habits stay about the same, and when the price goes down, consumers’ buying habits also remain unchanged.



If elasticity = 0, then it is said to be 'perfectly' inelastic, meaning its demand will remain unchanged at any price. There are probably no real-world examples of perfectly inelastic goods. If there were, that means producers and suppliers would be able to charge whatever they felt like and consumers would still need to buy them. The only thing close to a perfectly inelastic good would be air and water, which no one controls. 



Elasticity is an economic concept used to measure the change in the aggregate quantity demanded of a good or service in relation to price movements of that good or service.



A product is considered to be elastic if the quantity demand of the product changes more than proportionally when its price increases or decreases. Conversely, a product is considered to be inelastic if the quantity demand of the product changes very little when its price fluctuates.



For example, insulin is a product that is highly inelastic. For people with diabetes who need insulin, the demand is so great that price increases have very little effect on the quantity demanded. Price decreases also do not affect the quantity demanded; most of those who need insulin aren't holding out for a lower price and are already making purchases.



On the other side of the equation are highly elastic products. Spa days, for example, are highly elastic in that they aren't a necessary good, and an increase in the price of trips to the spa will lead to a greater proportion decline in the demand for such services. Conversely, a decrease in the price will lead to a greater than proportional increase in demand for spa treatments.


   Types of Elasticity  
  Elasticity of Demand  

The quantity demanded of a good or service depends on multiple factors, such as price, income, and preference. Whenever there is a change in these variables, it causes a change in the quantity demanded of the good or service.



Price elasticity of demand is an economic measure of the sensitivity of demand relative to a change in price. The measure of the change in the quantity demanded due to the change in the price of a good or service is known as price elasticity of demand.


  Income Elasticity  

Income elasticity of demand refers to the sensitivity of the quantity demanded for a certain good to a change in real income of consumers who buy this good, keeping all other things constant. The formula for calculating income elasticity of demand is the percent change in quantity demanded divided by the percent change in income. With income elasticity of demand, you can tell if a particular good represents a necessity or a luxury.


  Cross Elasticity  

The cross elasticity of demand is an economic concept that measures the responsiveness in the quantity demanded of one good when the price for another good changes. Also called cross-price elasticity of demand, this measurement is calculated by taking the percentage change in the quantity demanded of one good and dividing it by the percentage change in the price of the other good.


  Price Elasticity of Supply  

Price elasticity of supply measures the responsiveness to the supply of a good or service after a change in its market price. According to basic economic theory, the supply of a good will increase when its price rises. Conversely, the supply of a good will decrease when its price decreases.


   Factors Affecting Demand Elasticity  

There are three main factors that influence a good’s price elasticity of demand.


  Availability of Substitutes  

In general, the more good substitutes there are, the more elastic the demand will be. For example, if the price of a cup of coffee went up by $0.25, consumers might replace their morning caffeine fix with a cup of strong tea. This means that coffee is an elastic good because a small increase in price will cause a large decrease in demand as consumers start buying more tea instead of coffee.



However, if the price of caffeine itself were to go up, we would probably see little change in the consumption of coffee or tea because there may be few good substitutes for caffeine. Most people, in this case, might not willingly give up their morning cup of caffeine no matter what the price. We would say, therefore, that caffeine is an inelastic product. While a specific product within an industry can be elastic due to the availability of substitutes, an entire industry itself tends to be inelastic. Usually, unique goods such as diamonds are inelastic because they have few if any substitutes.


  Necessity  

As we saw above, if something is needed for survival or comfort, people will continue to pay higher prices for it. For example, people need to get to work or drive for a number of reasons. Therefore, even if the price of gas doubles or even triples, people will still need to fill up their tanks.


  Time  

The third influential factor is time. For instance, if the price of cigarettes goes up to $2 per pack, someone with a nicotine addiction with very few available substitutes will most likely continue buying their daily cigarettes. This means that tobacco is inelastic because the change in price will not have a significant influence on the quantity demanded. However, if that person who smokes cigarettes finds that they cannot afford to spend the extra $2 per day and begins to kick the habit over a period of time, the price of cigarettes for that consumer becomes elastic in the long run.


   The Importance of Price Elasticity in Business  

Understanding whether or not the goods or services of a business are elastic is integral to the success of the company. Companies with high elasticity ultimately compete with other businesses on price and are required to have a high volume of sales transactions to remain solvent. Firms that are inelastic, on the other hand, have goods and services that are must-haves and enjoy the luxury of setting higher prices.



Beyond prices, the elasticity of a good or service directly affects the customer retention rates of a company. Businesses often strive to sell goods or services that have inelastic demand; doing so means that customers will remain loyal and continue to purchase the good or service even in the face of a price increase.


   Examples of Elasticity  

There are a number of real-world examples of elasticity we interact with on a daily basis. One interesting modern-day example of the price elasticity of demand many people take part in even if they don't realize it is the case of Uber's surge pricing. As you might know, Uber uses a "surge pricing" algorithm during times when there is an above-average amount of users requesting rides in the same geographic area. The company applies a price multiplier which allows Uber to equilibrate supply and demand in real-time.



The COVID-19 pandemic has also shone a spotlight on the price elasticity of demand through its impact on a number of industries. For example, a number of outbreaks of the coronavirus in meat processing facilities across the US, in addition to the slowdown in international trade, led to a domestic meat shortage, causing import prices to rise 16% in May 2020, the largest increase on record since 1993.



Another extraordinary example of COVID-19's impact on elasticity arose in the oil industry. Although oil is generally very inelastic, meaning demand has a little impact on the price per barrel, because of a historic drop in global demand for oil during March and April, along with increased supply and a shortage of storage space, on April 20, 2020, crude petroleum actually traded at a negative price in the intraday futures market.



In response to this dramatic drop in demand, OPEC+ members elected to cut production by 9.7 million barrels per day through the end of June, the largest production cut ever.




What Is Meant by Elasticity in Economics?
Elasticity refers to the measure of the responsiveness of quantity demanded or quantity supplied to one of its determinants. Goods that are elastic see their demand respond rapidly to changes in factors like price or supply. Inelastic goods, on the other hand, retain their demand even when prices rise sharply (e.g., gasoline or food).




Are Luxury Good Elastic?
Luxury goods often have a high price elasticity of demand because they are sensitive to price changes. If prices rise, people quickly stop buying them and wait for prices to drop.




What Are the 4 Types of Elasticity?
Four types of elasticity are demand elasticity, income elasticity, cross elasticity, and price elasticity.




What Is Price Elasticity?
Price elasticity measures how much the supply or demand of a product changes based on a given change in price.




What Is the Elasticity of Demand Formula?
The elasticity of demand can be calculated by dividing the percentage change in the quantity demanded of a good or service by the percentage change in price. It reflects how demand for a good or service changes as its quantity or price varies.


   The Bottom Line  

Understanding whether a good or service is elastic or inelastic, and what other products could be tied to a good's elasticity can help consumers make informed decisions when they are deciding if or when to make a purchase.
What Is an Elective-Deferral Contribution?  

An elective-deferral contribution is made directly from an employee's salary to his or her employer-sponsored retirement plan such as a 401(k) or 403(b) plan. The employee must authorize the transaction before the contribution can be deducted.



Elective deferrals can be made on a pre-tax or after-tax basis if an employer allows them. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) establishes limits on how much an employee can defer or contribute to a qualified retirement plan. An elective-deferral contribution is also known as a salary-deferral or salary-reduction contribution.





Key Takeaways

An elective-deferral contribution is a portion of an employee's salary that's withheld and transferred into a retirement plan such as a 401(k).Elective deferrals can be made on a pre-tax or after-tax basis if an employer allows.The IRS limits how much you can contribute to a qualified retirement plan.Individuals under the age of 50 can contribute up to $20,500 into a 401(k) in 2022 and $22,500 in 2023.For 2022, people 50 and above can make catch-up contributions of an additional $6,500 for a total of $27,000. For 2023, the catch-up contribution increases to $7,500, for a total of $30,000.


   How an Elective-Deferral Contribution Works  

Elective-deferral contributions made into traditional 401(k) plans are made on a pre-tax or tax-deferred basis, effectively reducing an employee's taxable income. Suppose an individual making $40,000 a year decides to contribute $100 per month into their 401(k). These deferrals total $1,200 per year. As a result, the employee's pay is taxed at $38,800 that year instead of $40,000. 



Since there's a tax-deduction upfront, any distributions are taxed at the income tax rate for the retiree at the time of withdrawal. Several restrictions apply as to when and under what circumstances an employee can make withdrawals from an employer-sponsored retirement plan. For example, an additional 10% penalty tax may apply if an individual makes a withdrawal before age 59½—assuming the employee meets the conditions that allow him or her to take an early distribution. State and local taxes may also be assessed for early withdrawals.



Some employers allow workers to contribute toward Roth 401(k) plans. Contributions made to these plans are made on an after-tax basis. After tax-basis means the funds are taxed before they were deposited into the retirement plan. Since there's no pre-tax benefit with Roth 401(k)s, employees can withdraw deferrals tax-free as long as they're over the age of 59½.






Unlike Roth IRAs, Roth 401(k)s are not subject to RMDs during the owner's lifetime.


   Elective-Deferral Contribution Limits  

The IRS has limits on how much money can be contributed to an employee's qualified retirement plan.


  Employee Contribution Limit  

For 2022 and 2023, individuals under the age of 50 can contribute up to $20,500 and $22,500 respectively into a 401(k). Those aged 50 and above can make catch-up contributions of an additional $6,500 ($7,500 for 2023) for a total of $27,000 ($30,000 for 2023). These rules apply to Roth 401(k)s as well.



IRS rules also apply if you have multiple 401(k) accounts. This means if a person under 50 invests in a traditional 401(k) and a Roth 401(k) plan, they can make elective-deferral contributions of up to $20,500 for 2022 and $22,500 for 2023.


  Employee and Employer Total Contribution Limit  

The rules stated earlier apply only to elective-deferral contributions. They do not apply to the matching contributions from an employer, nonelective employee contributions, or any allocations of forfeitures. The IRS limits the total amount that can be contributed to an employee's retirement plan from all sources, including the employer's matching and the employee's contributions.



The total contributions to an employee's retirement plan from both the employee and employer cannot exceed the lesser of:



100% of the participant's compensation$61,000 or $67,500, including catch-up contributions for those aged 50 and over in 2022$66,000 or $73,500, including catch-up contributions for those aged 50 and over in 2023
What Is Electronic Bill Payment and Presentment?  

Electronic bill payment and presentment (EBPP) is a process that companies use to collect payments electronically through systems like the Internet, direct-dial access, and Automated Teller Machines (ATMs). It has become a core component of online banking at many financial institutions today. Other industries—including insurance providers, telecommunications companies, and utilities—depend on EBPP services as well.


   Understanding EBPP  

EBPPs come in two types: biller-direct and bank-aggregator. Biller-direct is electronic billing, which is offered by the company providing the good or service. The company gives customers the option to pay bills directly on their web site and might alert them when a payment is due via email. The customer then logs into the site via a secure connection, reviews the billing information, and enters payment amount.





Key Takeaways

EBPPs are systems used to collect payments electronically.A biller-direct EBPP lets users pay bills directly via the company's website.In the bank-aggregator model, a banking customer can pay several different bills from their bank accounts.Some newer services allow customers to pay all of their bills from one website and these are called consumer-consolidation EBPPs.



The bank-aggregator or bill-consolidator model allows customers to pay bills to many different companies through one portal. That is, the service collects different payments from customers and distributes each payment to the appropriate company. A bank, for instance, might offer online users the option to make many different payments like credit cards, utility bills, and insurance premiums. Standalone sites also exist that allow people to view and pay all of their bills. These are called consumer consolidator models.



Some newer EBPP products include features like secure email delivery, stored payment data, and autopay. For example, a healthcare insurance company looking to streamline its customer billing system may decide to switch to EBPP and allow customers to pay directly on their website or to have premiums automatically deducted each month. Doing so saves customers the hassle of filing paperwork and can save the organization on document delivery and processing costs.



Some providers allow the development of EBPP systems by building new payment sites for their customers. These might include features to authorize transactions, capture payments, or allow for refunds. These systems typically accept major credit cards and can sometimes save an enterprise money on transaction processing costs, increasing their revenue and profit overall.


   EBPP and Online Banking  

Many large banks offer electronic bill payment and presentment services as a part of their online banking system. In general, online banking, which is sometimes called "Internet banking" or "web banking," allows users to execute financial transactions via the Internet. Specifically, an online bank offers customers the ability to make deposits, withdrawals, transfers between accounts, and other traditional services, as well as online bill payments, such as EBPP.



Convenience is obviously a major advantage of online banking because transactions can take place 24 hours-a-day, seven days a week. On the downside, accounts can be vulnerable to hacking (although banking security is continually improving). For that reason, when using online banking, consumers are advised to use their data plans, rather than public Wi-Fi networks, to help prevent unauthorized access.
What Is an Electronic Check (E-Check)?  

An electronic check, or e-check, is a form of payment made via the Internet, or another data network, designed to perform the same function as a conventional paper check. Since the check is in an electronic format, it can be processed in fewer steps.



Additionally, it has more security features than standard paper checks including authentication, public key cryptography, digital signatures, and encryption, among others.





Key Takeaways

An electronic check is a form of payment made via the internet that is designed to perform the same function as a conventional paper check.One of the more frequently used versions of the electronic check is the direct deposit system offered by many employers.Generally, the costs associated with issuing an electronic check are notably lower than those associated with paper checks.An electronic check has more security features than standard paper checks. 


   How an Electronic Check (E-Check) Works  

An electronic check is part of the larger electronic banking field and part of a subset of transactions referred to as electronic fund transfers (EFTs). This includes not only electronic checks but also other computerized banking functions such as ATM withdrawals and deposits, debit card transactions, and remote check depositing features. The transactions require the use of various computer and networking technologies to gain access to the relevant account data to perform the requested actions.



Electronic checks were developed in response to the transactions that arose in the world of electronic commerce. Electronic checks can be used to make a payment for any transaction that a paper check can cover and are governed by the same laws that apply to paper checks. This was the first form of Internet-based payment used by the U.S. Treasury for making large online payments.


   Benefits of Electronic Checks  

Generally, the costs associated with issuing an electronic check are notably lower than those associated with paper checks. Not only is there no requirement for a physical paper check, which costs money to produce, but also electronic checks do not require physical postage in cases of payments being made to entities outside the direct reach of the entity issuing the funds.



It is estimated that printing and issuing a paper check will cost your business anywhere between $4 and $20. However, the average fee per eCheck transaction ranges from $0.30 to $1.50.



Further, there are multiple levels of authentication to help ensure funds are routed properly.






Electronic checks also come with a lower risk of the associated funds being stolen, as there is no tangible item to intercept.


   Direct Deposit System  

One of the more frequently used versions of the electronic check is the direct deposit system offered by many employers. It is an electronic method of sending an employee’s wages directly into the employee’s bank account. Additionally, taxpayers who are owed a refund on federal tax returns can elect to receive a directly deposited electronic check from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) instead of having a physical paper check sent through the mail.




Can Anyone Send an E-Check?
Yes, but you must first sign up for an e-check service. This can be done through your bank or a payment processor such as Square, Stripe, or PayPal. Then you'll need to provide the payment details and authorize the payment.




Can You Send an E-Check Instantly?
E-checks are sent online instantly, but processing them tends to take longer than other online payments done through apps because they are transferred using the automated clearing house (ACH) network. E-checks can take several business days to clear.




Is It Safe to Pay With E-Checks?
Although e-checks are as vulnerable as any other online bank transaction, they can be considered safer than traditional paper checks, which are riskier because they are tangible, physical documents—which can be stolen and forged.


   The Bottom Line  

E-checks are considered the digital version of traditional paper checks. E-checks are facilitated by the Automated Clearing House (ACH) network, an electronic network used by U.S. financial institutions. Funds are electronically withdrawn from the payer’s checking account, transferred over the ACH network, and deposited into the recipient's checking account. 



E-Checks are a safer alternative than paper checks, and also faster to clear and cheaper to issue.
What Is Electronic Commerce (E-commerce)?  

Electronic commerce (e-commerce) refers to companies and individuals that buy and sell goods and services over the internet. E-commerce operates in different types of market segments and can be conducted over computers, tablets, smartphones, and other smart devices. Nearly every imaginable product and service is available through e-commerce transactions, including books, music, plane tickets, and financial services such as stock investing and online banking. As such, it is considered a very disruptive technology.





Key Takeaways

E-commerce is the buying and selling of goods and services over the internet.It is conducted over computers, tablets, smartphones, and other smart devices.Almost anything can be purchased through e-commerce today, which makes e-commerce highly competitive.It can be a substitute for brick-and-mortar stores, though some businesses choose to maintain both.E-commerce operates in several market segments including business-to-business, business-to-consumer, consumer-to-consumer, and consumer-to-business.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   Understanding E-commerce  

As noted above, e-commerce is the process of buying and selling tangible products and services online. It involves more than one party along with the exchange of data or currency to process a transaction. It is part of the greater industry that is known as electronic business (e-business), which involves all of the processes required to run a company online.



E-commerce has helped businesses (especially those with a narrow reach like small businesses) gain access to and establish a wider market presence by providing cheaper and more efficient distribution channels for their products or services. Target (TGT) supplemented its brick-and-mortar presence with an online store that allows customers to purchase everything from clothes and coffeemakers to toothpaste and action figures right from their homes.



Providing goods and services isn't as easy as it may seem. It requires a lot of research about the products and services you wish to sell, the market, audience, competition, as well as expected business costs.



Once that's determined, you need to come up with a name and set up a legal structure, such as a corporation. Next, set up an e-commerce site with a payment gateway. For instance, a small business owner who runs a dress shop can set up a website promoting their clothing and other related products online and allow customers to make payments with a credit card or through a payment processing service, such as PayPal.






E-commerce may be thought of as a digital version of mail-order catalog shopping. Also called online commerce, e-commerce is the transaction between a buyer and a seller that leverages technology.


   Special Considerations  

E-commerce has changed the way people shop and consume products and services. More people are turning to their computers and smart devices to order goods, which can easily be delivered to their homes. As such, it has disrupted the retail landscape. Amazon and Alibaba have gained considerable popularity, forcing traditional retailers to make changes to the way they do business.



But that's not all. Not to be outdone, individual sellers have increasingly engaged in e-commerce transactions via their own personal websites. And digital marketplaces such as eBay or Etsy serve as exchanges where multitudes of buyers and sellers come together to conduct business.






The U.S. Department of Commerce recognizes e-commerce businesses such as transactional sites, static content sites, online marketplaces, and auction sites.


   History of E-commerce  

Most of us have shopped online for something at some point, which means we've taken part in e-commerce. So it goes without saying that e-commerce is everywhere. But very few people may know that e-commerce has a history that goes back to before the internet began.



E-commerce actually goes back to the 1960s when companies used an electronic system called the Electronic Data Interchange to facilitate the transfer of documents. It wasn't until 1994 that the very first transaction. took place. This involved the sale of a CD between friends through an online retail website called NetMarket.



The industry has gone through so many changes since then, resulting in a great deal of evolution. Traditional brick-and-mortar retailers were forced to embrace new technology in order to stay afloat as companies like Alibaba, Amazon, eBay, and Etsy became household names. These companies created a virtual marketplace for goods and services that consumers can easily access.



New technology continues to make it easier for people to do their online shopping. People can connect with businesses through smartphones and other devices and by downloading apps to make purchases. The introduction of free shipping, which reduces costs for consumers, has also helped increase the popularity of the e-commerce industry.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of E-commerce  
  Advantages  

E-commerce offers consumers the following advantages:



Convenience: E-commerce can occur 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Although eCommerce may take a lot of work, it is still possible to generate sales as you sleep or earn revenue while you are away from your store.Increased Selection: Many stores offer a wider array of products online than they carry in their brick-and-mortar counterparts. And many stores that solely exist online may offer consumers exclusive inventory that is unavailable elsewhere.Potentially Lower Start-up Cost: E-commerce companies may require a warehouse or manufacturing site, but they usually don't need a physical storefront. The cost to operate digitally is often less expensive than needing to pay rent, insurance, building maintenance, and property taxes.International Sales: As long as an e-commerce store can ship to the customer, an e-commerce company can sell to anyone in the world and isn't limited by physical geography.Easier to Retarget Customers: As customers browse a digital storefront, it is easier to entice their attention towards placed advertisements, directed marketing campaigns, or pop-ups specifically aimed at a purpose.


  Disadvantages  

There are certain drawbacks that come with e-commerce sites, too. The disadvantages include:



Limited Customer Service: If you shop online for a computer, you cannot simply ask an employee to demonstrate a particular model's features in person. And although some websites let you chat online with a staff member, this is not a typical practice.
Lack of Instant Gratification: When you buy an item online, you must wait for it to be shipped to your home or office. However, e-tailers like Amazon make the waiting game a little bit less painful by offering same-day delivery as a premium option for select products.
Inability to Touch Products: Online images do not necessarily convey the whole story about an item, and so e-commerce purchases can be unsatisfying when the products received do not match consumer expectations. Case in point: an item of clothing may be made from shoddier fabric than its online image indicates.
Reliance on Technology: If your website crashes, garners an overwhelming amount of traffic, or must be temporarily taken down for any reason, your business is effectively closed until the e-commerce storefront is back.
Higher Competition: Although the low barrier to entry regarding low cost is an advantage, this means other competitors can easily enter the market. E-commerce companies must have mindful marketing strategies and remain diligent on SEO optimization to ensure they maintain a digital presence.





Pros

Owners can generate revenue semi-passively
Consumers can easily browse for specific products
Greater earning potential as there are no limitations on physical location as long you can ship there
Reduced costs assuming digital presence costs less than building, insurance, taxes, and repairs.
Greater marketing control, including data extraction from customers, targeted ads, and pop-up placement



Cons

Limited customer service opportunities as there is little to no face-to-face opportunities
Lacks instant gratification as customers must believe in a product before seeing it in person
Products can't been seen or handled until delivered (can't try before they buy)
Loss of revenue or income when websites go down
High reliance on shipping constraints
Higher competition due to lower barriers of entry and greater customer potential





   Types of E-commerce  

Depending on the goods, services, and organization of an ecommerce company, the business can opt to operate several different ways. Here are several of the popular business models.


  Business-to-Consumer (B2C)  

B2C e-commerce companies sell directly to the product end-user. Instead of distributing goods to an intermediary, a B2C company performs transactions with the consumer that will ultimately use the good.



This type of business model may be used to sell products (like your local sporting goods store's website) or services (such as a lawn care mobile app to reserve landscaping services). This is the most common business model and is likely the concept most people think about when they hear the term e-commerce.


  Business-to-Business (B2B)  

Similar to B2C, an e-commerce business can directly sell goods to a user. However, instead of being a consumer, that user may be another company. B2B transactions often entail larger quantities, greater specifications, and longer lead times. The company placing the order may also have a need to set recurring goods if the purchase is for recurring manufacturing processes.


  Business-to-Government (B2G)  

Some entities specialize as government contractors providing goods or services to agencies or administrations. Similar to a B2B relationship, the business produces items of value and remits those items to an entity.



B2G e-commerce companies must often meet government requests for proposal requirements, solicit bids for projects, and meet very specific product or service criteria. In addition, there may be joint government endeavors to solicit a single contract through a government-wide acquisition contract.


  Consumer-to-Consumer (C2C)  

Established companies are the only entities that can sell things. E-commerce platforms such as digital marketplaces connect consumers with other consumers who can list their own products and execute their own sales.



These C2C platforms may be auction-style listings (i.e. eBay auctions) or may warrant further discussion regarding the item or service being provided (i.e. Craigslist postings). Enabled by technology, C2C e-commerce platforms empower consumers to both buy and sell without the need for companies.


  Consumer-to-Business (C2B)  

Modern platforms have allowed consumers to more easily engage with companies and offer their services, especially related to short-term contracts, gigs, or freelance opportunities. For example, consider listings on Upwork.



A consumer may solicit bids or interact with companies that need particular jobs done. In this way, the e-commerce platform connects businesses with freelancers to enable consumers greater power to achieve pricing, scheduling, and employment demands.


  Consumer-to-Government (C2G)  

Less of a traditional e-commerce relationship, consumers can interact with administrations, agencies, or governments through C2G partnerships. These partnerships are often not in the exchange of service but rather, the transaction of obligation.



For example, uploading your federal tax return to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) digital website is an e-commerce transaction regarding an exchange of information. Alternatively, you may pay your tuition to your university online or remit property tax assessments to your county assessor.












Investopedia / Sabrina Jiang






The U.S. Census Bureau conducts estimates of retail e-commerce sales in the United States. In the first quarter of 2023, retail e-commerce accounted for 15.1% of total sales in the country, totaling roughly $272.6 billion. These figures are adjusted for seasonal variation.


   Types of E-commerce Revenue Models  

In addition to crafting what type of e-commerce company a business wants to be, the business must decide how it wants to make money. Due to the unique nature of e-commerce, the business has a few options on how it wants to process orders, carry inventory, and ship products.


  Dropshipping  

Often considered one of the easier forms of e-commerce, dropshipping allows a company to create a digital storefront, generate sales, then rely on a supplier to provide the good. When generating the sale, the e-commerce company collects payment via credit card, PayPal, cryptocurrency, or other means of digital currency.



Then, the e-commerce store passes the order to the dropship supplier. This supplier manages inventory, oversees the warehouse of goods, packages the goods, and delivers the product to the purchaser.


  White Labeling  

White-label e-commerce companies leverage already successful products sold by another company. After a customer places an order, the e-commerce company receives the existing product, repackages the product with its own package and label, and distributes the product to the customer. Although the e-commerce company has little to no say in the product they receive, the company usually faces little to no in-house manufacturing constraints.


  Wholesaling  

A more capital-intensive approach to e-commerce, wholesaling entails maintaining quantities of inventory, keeping track of customer orders, maintaining customer shipping information, and typically having ownership of the warehouse space to house products.



Wholesalers may charge bulk pricing to retailers or unit prices for consumers. However, the broad approach to wholesaling is to connect to buyers of large quantities or many smaller buyers of a similar, standardized product.


  Private Labeling  

Private labeling is a more appropriate e-commerce approach for companies that may not have large upfront capital or do not have their own factory space to manufacture goods. Private label e-commerce companies send plans to a contracted manufacturer who makes the product.



The manufacturer may also have the ability to ship directly to a customer or ship directly to the company receiving the order. This method of e-commerce is best suited for companies that may receive on-demand orders with short turnaround times but are unable to handle the capital expenditure requirements.


  Subscription  

E-commerce companies can also leverage repeating orders or loyal customers by implementing subscription services. For a fixed price, the e-commerce company will assemble a package, introduce new products, and incentivize locking to a long-term agreement at a lower monthly price.



The consumer only places an order once and receives their subscription order at a fixed cadence. Common subscription e-commerce products include meal prep services, agriculture boxes, fashion boxes, or health and grooming products.


   Example of E-commerce  

Amazon is a behemoth in the e-commerce space. In fact, it is the world's largest online retailer and continues to grow. As such, it is a huge disrupter in the retail industry, forcing some major retailers to rethink their strategies and shift their focus.



The company launched its business with an e-commerce-based model of online sales and product delivery. It was founded by Jeff Bezos in 1994 as an online bookstore but has since expanded to include everything from clothing to housewares, power tools to food and drinks, and electronics.



Company sales increased by 9% in 2022 from the previous year, totaling $513.98 billion compared to $469.82 billion in 2021. Amazon's operating income dropped from $24.88 billion in 2021 to $$12.25 billion in 2022. The company posted a net loss of $2.72 billion in 2022, compared to net income of $33.36 billion in 2021.




How Do You Start an E-commerce Business?
Make sure you do your research before you start your business. Figure out what products and services you're going to sell and look into the market, target audience, competition, and expected costs.Next, come up with a name, choose a business structure, and get the necessary documentation (taxpayer numbers, licenses, and permits if they apply).Before you start selling, decide on a platform and design your website (or have someone do it for you).Remember to keep everything simple at the beginning and make sure you use as many channels as you can to market your business so it can grow.




What Is an E-commerce Website?
An e-commerce website is any site that allows you to buy and sell products and services online. Companies like Amazon and Alibaba are examples of e-commerce websites.




What Is the Difference Between E-commerce and E-business?
E-commerce involves the purchase and sale of goods and services online and is actually just one part of e-business. An e-business involves the entire process of running a company online. Put simply, it's all of the activity that takes place with an online business.




What Is an Example of E-commerce?
Dollar Shave Club offers customers personal grooming, health, and beauty products. Customers can opt for what product(s) they want shipped to them and can sign up for long-term memberships to have products sent to them on a recurring basis. Dollar Shave Club procures goods in bulk from other companies, then bundles those products, maintains membership subscriptions, and markets the products.




What Are the Types of E-commerce?
An e-commerce company can sell to customers, businesses, or agencies such as the government. E-commerce can also be performed by customers who sell to businesses, other customers, or governments.


   The Bottom Line  

E-commerce is just one part of running an e-business. While the latter involves the entire process of running a business online, e-commerce simply refers to the sale of goods and services via the internet. E-commerce companies like Amazon, Alibaba, and eBay have changed the way the retail industry works, forcing major, traditional retailers to change the way they do business.



If starting an e-commerce site is something you're considering, make sure you do your research before you start. And make sure you start with a small, narrow focus to ensure that you have room to grow.
What Is an Electronic Communication Network (ECN)?  

An electronic communication network (ECN) is a computerized system that automatically matches buy and sell orders for securities in the market. ECN trading is especially helpful when investors in different geographic areas wish to complete a secure transaction without the use of a third party.





Key Takeaways

An electronic communication network (ECN) is a digital system that matches buyers and sellers looking to trade securities in the financial markets.ECNs allow brokerages and investors in different geographic areas to trade without a third party involved, offering privacy for investors.ECNs enables trading to happen outside of traditional trading hours, therefore enabling investors to react to or anticipate after-hours news.One of the downsides of using ECNs is that they have access fees and commission charges that can jack up the overall price of use.Without ECNs, it would take considerably longer for buyers and sellers to be matched with one another, making it more difficult to enter or exit positions and adding to the costs and risks of trading.


   Understanding an Electronic Communication Network (ECN)  

ECNs connect major brokerages and individual traders so they can trade directly between themselves without going through a middleman. They also make it possible for investors in different geographic locations to quickly and easily trade with each other. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requires ECNs to register as broker-dealers.



ECNs are computer-based systems that display the best available bid and ask quotes from multiple market participants, and then automatically match and execute orders. They not only facilitate trading on major exchanges during market hours, but they are also used for after-hours trading and foreign currency trading. ECNs allow for automated trading, passive order matching, and speedy execution.



Classified by the SEC as an alternative trading system (ATS), an ECN makes money by charging a fee for each transaction to meet financial obligations. It attempts to eliminate the third party’s role in executing orders entered by an exchange market maker or an over-the-counter (OTC) market maker and permits such orders to be entirely or partly executed. Orders placed through ECNs are usually limit orders, which is particularly useful for safely trading after hours, given the volatile effect that can have on a stock's price.






Some ECNs are designed to serve institutional investors, while others are designed to serve retail investors.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Electronic Communication Networks  

The use of the ECN allows investors a way to trade outside traditional trading hours, providing a mechanism for those who either can’t be actively involved during normal market times or who prefer the flexibility offered by wider availability. It also avoids the wider spreads that are common when using a traditional broker and provides overall lower commissions and fees. For those concerned about privacy, the ECN can provide a level of anonymity to those who desire it. This can be particularly attractive to investors interested in making larger transactions.



One of the biggest drawbacks to using an ECN is the price to pay for using one. Access fees and commission charges can be costly and are difficult to avoid. Per-trade-based commissions can be costly and can affect your bottom line and profitability.



Another disadvantage of using ECNs is that the platform is less user-friendly than those provided by traditional brokers. Furthermore, the lack of integrated charts and data traditional brokers provide on their interfaces may make it difficult for beginner investors.



Finally, the wider spreads may complicate the process of calculating break-even and stop-loss points for some investors.





Allows investors to trade outside traditional trading hours

Provides wider spreads than traditional brokers
Anonymity



High costs

Less user-friendly platforms than traditional brokers
Harder to calculate break-even points because of wider spreads





   Special Considerations  

Along with ECNs, matching systems and call markets are also considered forms of alternative trading systems. Matching systems receive orders and route the activity through a matching engine instance where the prices are checked against current resting limit orders. If no match is found, the order is placed in the book immediately as a quote. Call markets accept orders one at a time, with buying and selling prices determined based on the exchange activity after the order is placed.


   Examples of ECNs  

Some of the different ECNs include Instinet, SelectNet, and NYSE Arca. Instinet was the first ECN, founded in 1969, and is used by small brokerages and for transactions between institutions. It is widely used by market makers for NASDAQ trades, but individuals and small firms can also use it.



SelectNet is used primarily by market makers, but it does not require immediate order execution and helps investors trade with specific market makers. NYSE Arca grew out of the merger between the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and Archipelago, an early ECN from 1996. It facilitates electronic stock trading on major U.S. exchanges such as the NYSE and NASDAQ.



In foreign exchange markets, certain Forex brokers are designated as ECN brokers who can facilitate currency trades across electronic matching networks.





1969

The year that Instinet, the first electronic communication network (ECN), was founded.


   ECNs vs. Market Markers  

The term market makers refers to high-volume traders that literally "make a market" for securities by always standing at the ready to buy or sell. Unlike ECNs, market makers profit on the bid-ask spread rather than through commissions and fees. similar to ECNs they benefit the market by increasing liquidity.



Market markers set both the bid and the ask prices on their systems and display them publicly on their quote screens. The spread is typically kept lower than that investors can find in ECNs due to the fact that market makers generate their profit via the spread.



Without market makers and ECNs, it would take considerably longer for buyers and sellers to be matched with one another. This would reduce liquidity, making it more difficult to enter or exit positions and adding to the costs and risks of trading.


   ECN Trading FAQs  
  How Do You Use an ECN in Forex Trading?  

ECNs are computer-based programs that connect retail forex investors with major brokerages, all around the clock. After logging on to the ECN platform, investors will see the best available bid and ask quotes displayed from multiple market participants. ECNs will automatically match and execute orders.


  How Are ECN Trading Fees Calculated?  

Electronic communication network (ECN) fees are applied on a per-trade basis, usually fractions of a cent. ECNs charge a service fee for matching buyers and sellers who trade on their exchange and networks.


  How Do I Open an ECN Trading Account?  

To open an ECN trading account, simply create an account at one of the many ECN trading platforms available best suited to your needs. GO Markets, Exness, and XM are some of the most popular platforms.


  What Is the Difference Between Straight-Through Processing (STP) and ECN?  

Whereas ECNs provide liquidity by connecting investors with a number of parties—whether brokers or other retail investors—in order to complete a trade, STP brokers are automated brokers that provide traders with the ability to skip the middle man, but only through select liquidity providers.
What Is Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval (EDGAR)?  

EDGAR—Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval—is the electronic filing system created by the Securities and Exchange Commission to increase the efficiency and accessibility of corporate filings. The system is used by all publicly traded companies when submitting required documents to the SEC. Corporate documents are time-sensitive, and the creation of EDGAR has greatly decreased the time it takes for corporate documents to become publicly available.





Key Takeaways

Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (EDGAR) is an online database of public filings maintained by the Securities and Exchange Commission.Under the Securities Act of 1933, public companies are required to disclose certain information to the public.In addition to equity information, EDGAR can also be used to search the public filings of mutual funds, variable insurance products, or other types of securities.EDGAR was launched in 1992, but electronic filings did not become mandatory until 1995.Today, EDGAR can be used to find annual or quarterly reports for public companies as far back as 1995 or even 1994.


   Understanding EDGAR  

Under the Securities Act of 1933, public companies are required to publish their financial data every three months. Although this information was theoretically available to all investors, it was difficult to access in the age of paper communication.



The SEC began developing an electronic reporting system in the early 1980s, launching the first pilot in 1984. The first operational EDGAR system was launched in 1992, but electronic reporting was still voluntary at that time. Beginning in 1993, the commission began to phase in the requirement for electronic filing.



Corporate documents filed with the SEC through EDGAR include annual and quarterly statements, information on the holdings of institutional investors, and many other forms. These filings include some of the most important information used by investors and analysts. Some public companies may be exempt from filing if they fall below certain "thresholds."






The Securities Act of 1933 requires all public companies to disclose certain financial data. EDGAR makes this information more accessible to retail investors.


   Using the EDGAR System  

EDGAR consists of a searchable database with more than twenty years of electronic filings. Users can search the database in the same manner as an online search, using either the name of a company or individual. Search results can be further narrowed down by date, location of the company's executive offices, or the type of file sought.



In addition to company data, EDGAR can also be used to research mutual funds, variable insurance products, or confidential treatment orders. These are orders that restrict access to data that is otherwise required to be filed.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of EDGAR  

A drawback of the EDGAR system is that the filings are highly stripped down and often difficult to read compared to annual reports received by shareholders. All the information is contained in the filings, but details can be difficult to find in one huge text file. However, the information is always structured in the same way regardless of which company filed the information.



For example, if an analyst is interested in knowing if a company made any changes to its accounting methods, the investor will find that information in Part II, Item 9, in the annual report (or 10-K).



Due to increased access to the Internet, most of the reports on EDGAR can be found on the websites of the company that reported them. This can be an easier user experience than the EDGAR database, where users might have to sift through many reports by similarly-named companies in order to find the document they want.




Pros and Cons of EDGAR

Pros

Provides a single repository for public filings.
Allows easy access to 20+ years of corporate financial data, as well as mutual funds and variable investment products.



Cons

Search function can be clumsy, and cluttered with similar-sounding companies.
It may be easier to find reports on the webpage of the reporting company.





   Documents That Can Be Accessed From EDGAR  

Documents that are accessed using EDGAR and filed with the SEC include quarterly and annual corporate reports and financial statements. Annual Reports (Form 10-K) include company history, audited financial statements, a description of products and services, and an annual review of the organization, its operations, and the company’s markets. Quarterly Reports (Form 10-Q) include unaudited financial statements and information about the company’s operations in the previous three months.






Documents filed before 1995 may not be available on EDGAR but can be requested through the Freedom of Information Act.



Other reports that are often searched by investors are Registration Statements, which are required before stock can be sold to the public; Form 8-K, which discloses notable events such as bankruptcy; Forms 3 and 4, which contain ownership information; and Form 5, which reports transactions not reported on Form 4.




How Far Back Does the EDGAR Database Go?
EDGAR documents are available as far back as 1995 or 1994. Paper filings from earlier dates may be available through the Freedom of Information Act.




How Did Hackers Access EDGAR?
In 2016, a Ukrainian hacker used stolen login credentials to access filings on the EDGAR system that had not yet been released. This information was then passed on to traders, who were able to trade on the advance knowledge of company reporting figures before they were published.




What Is EDGAR Filer Management?
Edgar Filer Management is a portal for companies and individuals who wish to submit electronic filings to the SEC. This is more complicated than searching the EDGAR database, and it requires Filers to submit a Form ID for authorization in order to create an access code.




How Do You Find a Proxy Document in the EDGAR Database?
One can find a proxy filing, or any other public filing, by searching the EDGAR database by company name. The search results may need to be refined with additional specifications like filing date or category. Proxy statements are filed under form 14K.




What Is the Canadian Version of EDGAR?
The System for Electronic Document Analysis and Retrieval (SEDAR) is an electronic reporting tool used by Canadian public companies and securities issuers. This is the Canadian equivalent to EDGAR, maintained by the Canadian Securities Authority (CSA).


   The Bottom Line  

EDGAR is a convenient way to access the electronic reports of any public company in the United States. However, the search function can be clumsy, and it is far from intuitive. In the age of the Internet, much of this data can be found just as easily on a company webpage.
What Is the Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS)?  

The Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS) is a service provided by the U.S. Department of the Treasury. The service allows taxpayers to make tax payments either by telephone or online. This system is accessible every day of the week, 24 hours a day.﻿﻿



EFTPS can be utilized by corporations or individuals seeking to make payments on personal income taxes. The primary function is the convenience of allowing secure payments around personal schedules and avoiding the need to make payments in person or through the mail.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

The Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS) is a 24-7 service provided by the U.S. Department of the Treasury that allows taxpayers to make tax payments either by telephone or online.The system allows taxpayers to file directly with the IRS using a filer's social security number and personalized PIN number.In the past, fraudulent emails were sent that targeted EFTPS users, indicating that identification numbers were rejected or prompting users to follow an embedded link to change personal information.


   Understanding the Electronic Federal Tax Payment System  

Individuals or businesses wishing to submit tax payments to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) may use the EFTPS. However, users must plan ahead if using EFTPS. The service can only be used for payments after enrollment, a process that can take up to a week. While the system makes secure tax payments simple, it requires users to take a few steps beforehand. The initial online registration is followed by physical mail sent to the address provided at registration. The mail includes verification of the bank account for the debiting of payments and a unique personal identification number (PIN).﻿﻿ 



The IRS recommends using the EFTPS to make estimated tax payments.﻿﻿ Taxpayers may schedule advance payments, which can be modified later if unexpected changes occur.﻿﻿ Such changes can include a shortage of funds in the funding account.



Using an electronic password, taxpayers may access their personal and business tax records and accounts. If EFTPS is not working correctly or is unavailable for any reason, taxpayers still must make timely payments in person or through the mail. As of Jan. 2020, taxpayers may access the EFTPS voice response system at 1-800-555-3453, speak to a customer service agent at 1-800-555-4477, or log on to EFTPS.gov.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿


   EFTPS Security and Privacy  

The EFTPS website uses a secure server, complete with internal security policies and firewalls, to prevent unwanted and unintended parties from gaining access to users’ financial information.﻿﻿



Only explicitly scheduled or authorized payments can be processed by the site. Furthermore, the EFTPS website requires enrollees to input their PIN received as part of the enrollment process. Also, their taxpayer identification number and password must be entered to access the site and perform functions connected to sensitive financial information.﻿﻿



The most significant risk when using EFTPS is the potential for phishing scams that occur outside of the EFTPS website. In the past, fraudulent emails were sent that targeted EFTPS users, indicating that identification numbers were rejected or prompting users to follow an embedded link to change personal information. Such a link, instead, installed malware on users’ computers and was used to intercept banking information. All users are advised to contact EFTPS if any suspicious emails are received.﻿﻿
What Is Electronic Filing (E-File)?  

Electronic filing is the process of submitting tax returns over the internet using tax preparation software that has been preapproved by the relevant tax authority, such as the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) or the Canada Revenue Agency.



The convenience and efficiency of e-filing have made it increasingly popular in recent years. The IRS says e-filing speeds up tax refunds and helps to avoid delays.





Key Takeaways

Electronic filing is the process of submitting tax returns via the internet.It's available from professional tax preparers, through guided preparation software that has been preapproved by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) or free fillable forms on the IRS site.It allows taxpayers to file taxes online at their convenience and speeds up refunds while reducing errors.


   Electronic Filing (E-File) Options  

Taxpayers can file their returns directly on the IRS website, submitting fillable forms using IRS Free File. Those with an adjusted gross income earned in 2021 of $73,000 or less can alternatively use the Free File site to access the free e-filing services of IRS software partners with guided tax preparation, including a Spanish-language option.



A taxpayer has the option of filing the return using any tax preparation software with e-filing functionality or hiring the services of tax professionals who use similar software. The IRS Free File site has a search feature to help taxpayers find an authorized e-filing provider in their area.


   Advantages of Electronic Filing  

E-filing saves the tax agency time and money because it transmits a return's data directly to its computers, significantly reducing input errors. Filing electronically with tax preparation software also helps to reduce taxpayer calculation errors and missing entries, the IRS says.



Most taxpayers who e-file and provide direct deposit information can expect to receive any due refund within 21 days if there are no issues with their tax return, according to the IRS.



Another benefit of e-filing is that the tax filer receives an acceptance or rejection notice within 48 hours—usually within 24 hours—of transmitting the tax return. Acceptance is proof that the documents have been received and are in the system, while a rejection alerts the taxpayer that the return has not been accepted by the IRS. The rejection notice will include information on what needs to be corrected on the return to make it so that it is acceptable. If you e-filed before the tax due date but are rejected after it, then there is a five-day grace period for correcting and resubmitting your return. After that, you must send in a corrected paper return.






If you e-file before the tax due date but have your return rejected after it, then you have a five-day grace period in which to correct and resubmit your return.


   Limitations on E-Filing  

The IRS recommends only taxpayers comfortable doing their own taxes e-file without help from a professional or tax preparation software.



IRS Free File is only available for returns for the most recent tax year. Prior-year returns going back two years can still be filed electronically by registered tax preparers.



The IRS accepts e-filed returns for the most recent year until a November cutoff date typically announced in October, subject to the same timeliness rules as paper returns.



An electronic filing could be rejected over mistakes in entering a social security number or a payer's identification number, an omitted form, or a misspelled name. Returns can typically be e-filed again once such errors are fixed, the IRS says. If all else fails and the deadline looms, send in a paper return instead.
What Is the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (EFTA)?  

The Electronic Fund Transfer Act (EFTA) is a federal law that protects consumers when they transfer funds electronically, including through the use of debit cards, automated teller machines (ATMs), and automatic withdrawals from a bank account. Among other protections, the EFTA provides a way to correct transaction errors and limits the liability resulting from a lost or stolen card.





Key Takeaways

The Electronic Fund Transfer Act (EFTA) protects consumers when transferring funds electronically.The EFTA was enacted in 1978 as a result of the increased use of ATMs.Protection under the EFTA includes transfers made via ATMs, debit cards, direct deposits, point-of-sale, and phone.


   Understanding the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (EFTA)  

Electronic fund transfers are transactions that use computers, phones, or magnetic strips to authorize a financial institution to credit or debit a customer’s account. Electronic transfers include the use of ATMs, debit cards, direct deposits, point-of-sale (POS) transactions, transfers initiated by phone, automated clearing house (ACH) systems, and pre-authorized withdrawals from checking or savings accounts.



The EFTA outlines requirements for banking institutions and consumers to follow when errors occur. Under this act, consumers can challenge errors, have them corrected, and receive limited financial penalties. The EFTA also requires banks to provide certain information to consumers and defines how they can limit their liability in the case of a lost or stolen card.



The use of paper checks has steadily declined since the EFTA was passed, but checks continue to serve as hard evidence of payment. The explosion of electronic financial transactions created a need for new rules that would give consumers the same level of confidence as they have in the checking system. This includes the ability to challenge errors, correct them within a 60-day window, and limit liability on a lost card to $50 if it is reported as lost within two business days.



If the institution is notified within three to 59 days of a lost card, the liability could be as much as $500. And should it not be reported within 60 days, the consumer isn't protected from liability at all, meaning they could forfeit all funds in the associated account, and be responsible for paying any overdraft charges.


   History of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (EFTA)  

Congress passed the EFTA in 1978 in response to the growth of ATMs and electronic banking, and the Federal Reserve Board (FRB) implemented it as Regulation E. The act established rules to protect consumers and defined the rights and responsibilities of all participants involved in transferring funds electronically.



The rule-making authority of the EFTA eventually migrated from the Federal Reserve (Fed) to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) in 2011, following the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.






Gift cards, stored-value cards, credit cards, and prepaid phone cards are excluded from the EFTA.


   Services Protected Under the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (EFTA)  

Basic services that are protected under the EFTA include:



ATMs: The EFTA authorizes 24-hour access to ATMs.
Direct Deposit: Most banks offer direct deposit, which allows you to pre-authorize deposits, including payroll checks and government benefits, and recurring bill payments, such as mortgages, insurance payments, or utility bills.
Pay-by-Phone: You may authorize your financial institution to make payments or transfer funds via telephone. Banks are required to confirm your identity by asking account-specific questions.
Internet: You can access your accounts via financial institutions’ online portals to monitor activity, check balances, transfer funds, and pay bills.
Debit Card: Debit cards issued by financial institutions let consumers make purchases online or at a retail store or business.
Electronic Check Conversion: This feature enables a business to convert a paper check into an electronic payment by scanning the check and capturing the bank name, address, account number, and routing number. After the paper check is scanned into an electronic payment, it becomes null and void.






You have the right to stop preauthorized transfers at any time, regardless of any opposing contract terms.


   Electronic Fund Transfer Act (EFTA) Requirements for Service Providers  

The EFTA requires financial institutions and any third party involved in electronic fund transfer services to disclose the following information to consumers:



A summary of liability regarding unauthorized transactions and transfersContact information for the person(s) who should be notified in the event of an unauthorized transaction, along with the procedure to report and file a claimThe types of transfers you can make, any fees associated with them, and any limitations that might existA summary of your rights, including the right to receive periodic statements and POS purchase receiptsA summary of the institution’s liability to you if it fails to make or stop certain transactionsThe circumstances under which an institution will share information with a third party concerning your account and account activitiesA notice describing how to report an error, request more information, and the amount of time within which you must file your report




Who Does the EFTA Apply To?
EFTA applies to all persons, including offices of foreign financial institutions in the United States that offer EFT services to residents of any state. It covers any account located in the United States through which EFTs are offered to a resident of a state, no matter where a particular transfer occurs.




Does EFTA Require Withdrawal Limits?
Yes. The EFTA requires banks to limit the amount of money that can be withdrawn from your account during any given time period. Most banks set the limit at $200 or $300 each day, meaning you cannot electronically withdraw more than this amount in cash within a 24-hour period.




Does EFTA Cover Lost Cards?
Yes, but its protections are limited. EFTA limits your liability for spending on a lost or stolen card to $50 only if you notify the bank or credit union within two business days of your debit card being lost or stolen. For this and other reasons (the right to dispute undelivered purchases, for example), consumers who shop online should use a credit card.


   The Bottom Line  

The Electronic Fund Transfer Act (EFTA) is a federal law that was passed in 1978. It provides important protections to consumers when they transfer funds electronically, including through the use of debit cards, automated teller machines (ATMs), and automatic withdrawals from a bank account. The EFTA provides a way for transactions to be reviewed, and errors to be corrected. It also limits a bank's liability if a card is lost or stolen, as long as this is reported within 60 days.



The EFTA also imposes responsibilities on financial institutions, requiring them to disclose important information about the way that they manage accounts.
What Is Electronic Money?  

Electronic money is the currency that exists in banking computer systems that may be used to facilitate electronic transactions. Although its value is backed by fiat currency and may be exchanged into a physical, tangible form, electronic money is primarily used for electronic transactions.





Key Takeaways

Electronic money is currency stored in banking computer systems.Electronic money is backed by fiat currency and the central banking system.Various companies allow for transactions with electronic money, such as Square or PayPal.


   How eMoney Works  

Electronic money is used for transactions globally and is commonly accessed through electronic banking systems and monitored through electronic processing. eMoney can be exchanged between individuals and businesses electronically using digital apps.



Electronic money is backed and controlled by central banks. The U.S. Federal Reserve and 12 supporting banks manage the fiat currency in physical form and control the money supply through monetary policies and open market operations. 






Central banks are exploring the use of a Central Bank Digital Currency. In the United States, there is a physical currency issued by the Federal Reserve and digital balances held by commercial banks at the Federal Reserve. A CBDC would be a liability of the Federal Reserve, not of a commercial bank.


   Electronic Payment Processing  

Americans process transactions electronically by receiving paychecks through direct deposits, moving money from one account to another via electronic fund transfers, or spending money with credit cards and debit cards.



The U.S. financial market has a robust infrastructure for transacting electronic money, which includes payment processing networks, such as Visa and Mastercard. Prepaid cards and digital wallets like PayPal and Square likewise allow users to deposit fiat currency for electronic money. Electronic money allows for immediate transactions through e-commerce.






Here's our review for Best Money Transfer Apps


   eMoney vs. Cryptocurrency  

Electronic money may be exchanged for fiat currency and is represented within the regulated banking system. Cryptocurrencies are privately issued and are not backed by financial assets. Cryptocurrency is created using blockchain technology without government control or regulation.




What Is a Disadvantage of Using Electronic Money?
Fraud may be an issue when money can be transferred from one party to another without the necessity for verification of the original owner’s true identity. 




Is Cash Losing Popularity as the Use of eMoney Rises?
In 2022, only 18% of all payments were made with cash in the United States.




What Is an Electronic Wallet or Digital Wallet?
A digital wallet or electronic wallet is a financial transaction application that runs on any connected device. It securely stores payment information and passwords in the cloud. Digital wallets may be accessible from a computer; mobile wallets, which are a subset, are primarily used on mobile devices.


   The Bottom Line  

Electronic money or eMoney is currency stored in banking computer systems and backed by fiat currency. Individuals process and receive electronic money through paycheck direct deposits, electronic fund transfers, or online payments and purchases.
What Is the Electronic Payments Network (EPN)?  

The term Electronic Payments Network (EPN) refers to a financial clearinghouse that handles a variety of electronic funds transfers for the private sector. It is one of the automated clearinghouses (ACHs) in the United States, along with the Reserve Banks. Funds are transferred using the EPN between accounts at the same or different financial institutions. Examples of transfers under the EPN include deposits for payroll, Social Security benefits, and tax refunds, as well as debit transfers like loan payments and insurance premiums.





Key Takeaways

The Electronic Payments Network is a financial clearinghouse that handles electronic funds transfers for the private sector. The network facilitates bulk credit and debit transactions, such as payroll deposits and loan payments.It is used to process recurring payments as well as one-time debit transfers.


   Understanding the Electronic Payments Network (EPN)  

The automated clearinghouse is a network that facilitates the electronic transfer of money from one account to another by allowing financial institutions to execute bulk transfers electronically—either credit or debit transactions. There are two systems used across the United States—the Federal Reserve Bank and the Electronic Payments Network. Both of these systems process all of the ACH transactions in the country. The network was originally used to process recurring payments but now facilitates one-time debit transfers, such as payments made over the telephone and internet.



Many individuals and businesses prefer ACH payments because they are easy, convenient, and secure. For instance, the EPN is likely a key part of direct payroll deposits made by most employers, saving employees from a trip to the bank to deposit their paychecks. ACH payments are also ideal for things like recurrent billing, allowing for much faster processing and lower fees compared to checks and credit cards.













Here's how the system works:



An originator—an individual, corporation, or another entity—initiates a direct deposit or direct payment using the ACH network.
ACH entries are entered and transmitted electronically rather than by check.
The originating depository financial institution (ODFI) enters the ACH entry at the request of the originator.
The ODFI aggregates payments from customers and transmits them in batches at regular, predetermined intervals to an ACH Operator.
ACH operators—either the Federal Reserve or the EPN—receive batches of ACH entries from the ODFI. 
All ACH transactions are sorted and made available by the operator to the receiving depository financial institution (RDFI).
The receiver's account is debited or credited by the RDFI, according to the type of ACH entry. Just like an originator, a receiver can be an individual, business, or another entity.
Each ACH credit transaction settles in one to two business days. Each debit transaction settles in one business day. 






Credit transactions settle in one to two business days while debit transactions settle in one business day. 


   History of the Electronic Payments Network (EPN)  

The EPN is owned and operated by The Clearing House Payments Company, a private corporation owned by some of the largest commercial banks.﻿﻿ This makes the EPN a bank consortium of sorts. The network was created in 1981 when the Clearing House Payments Company pioneered the use of an evening processing cycle to permit overnight delivery of time-critical corporate ACH debits. This system made funds available much sooner than ever before, replacing the use of the older depository transfer checks. 



The EPN has been responsible for some of the most important ACH innovations—including the creation of the first all-electronic transfer environment. This pivotal invention has increased the efficiency and timeliness of business operations in all corners of the financial marketplace including the facilitation of credit and debit transactions. As mentioned above, credit transactions include things such as payroll, social security, tax refund, and dividend deposits while debit transactions include withdrawals like loan payments, insurance premiums, mortgage payments, and utility bills.
What Is Electronic Retailing (E-tailing)?  

Electronic retailing (E-tailing) is the sale of goods and services through the internet. E-tailing can include business-to-business (B2B) and business-to-consumer (B2C) sales of products and services.



E-tailing requires companies to tailor their business models to capture internet sales, which can include building out distribution channels such as warehouses, internet webpages, and product shipping centers.



Notably, strong distribution channels are critical to electronic retailing as these are the avenues that move the product to the customer.





Key Takeaways

Electronic retailing is the sale of goods and services through the internet.E-tailing can include business-to-business (B2B) and business-to-consumer (B2C) sales of products and services.Amazon.com (AMZN) is by far the largest online retailer providing consumer products and subscriptions through its website.Many traditional brick-and-mortar stores are investing in e-tailing through their websites.


   How Electronic Retailing (E-tailing) Works  

Electronic retailing includes a broad range of companies and industries. However, there are similarities between most e-tailing companies that include an engaging website, online marketing strategy, efficient distribution of products or services, and customer data analytics.



Successful e-tailing requires strong branding. Websites must be engaging, easily navigable, and regularly updated to meet consumers' changing demands. Products and services need to stand out from competitors' offerings and add value to consumers' lives. Also, a company's offerings must be competitively priced so that consumers do not favor one business over another just for price reasons.



E-tailers need distribution networks that are prompt and efficient. Consumers cannot wait for long periods for the delivery of products or services. Transparency in business practices is also important, so consumers trust and stay loyal to a company.



There are many ways companies can earn revenue online. Of course, the first income source is through the sales of their product to consumers or businesses. Both B2C and B2B companies can earn revenue by selling their services through a subscription-based model such as Netflix (NFLX), which charges a monthly fee for access to media content.



Revenue can also be earned through online advertising. For example, Meta (META), formerly Facebook Inc., earns money mainly from ads placed on its Facebook website by companies looking to sell to the millions who are "on Facebook," regularly checking their pages.


   Types of Electronic Retailing (E-tailing)  
  Business-to-Consumer (B2C) E-Tailing  

Business-to-consumer retailing is the most common of all e-commerce companies and the most familiar to most Internet users. This group of retailers includes companies selling finished goods or products to consumers online directly through their websites. The products could be shipped and delivered from the company's warehouse or directly from the manufacturer. One of the primary requirements of a successful B2C retailer is maintaining good customer relations.


  Business-to-Business (B2B) E-tailing  

Business-to-business retailing involves companies that sell to other companies. Such retailers include consultants, software developers, freelancers, and wholesalers. Wholesalers sell their products in bulk from their manufacturing plants to businesses. These businesses, in turn, sell those products to consumers. In other words, a B2B company such as a wholesaler might sell products to a B2C company.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Electronic Retailing (E-tailing)  

E-tailing includes more than just e-commerce-only companies. More and more traditional brick-and-mortar stores are investing in e-tailing. Infrastructure costs are lower with electronic retailing versus operating brick-and-mortar stores.



Companies can move products faster and reach a larger customer base online than with traditional physical locations. E-tailing also allows companies to close unprofitable stores and maintain the profitable ones.



Automated sales and checkout cut down on the need for staff and sales personnel. Also, websites cost less than physical stores to open, staff, and maintain. E-tailing reduces advertising and marketing expenses as customers can find the stores through search engines or social media. Data analytics is like gold for e-tailers.



Consumer shopping behavior can be tracked to determine spending habits, page views, and length of engagement with a product, service, or website page. Effective data analytics can decrease lost sales and boost client engagement, which can lead to increased revenue.



There are disadvantages to running an e-tailing operation, though. Creating and maintaining an e-tailing website, while less expensive than a traditional retail location, can be expensive. Infrastructure costs can be substantial if warehouses and distribution centers need to be built to store and ship the products. Also, adequate resources are necessary to handle online returns and customer disputes.



Also, e-tailing does not provide the immersive, emotional experience that physical stores can offer. E-tailing does not give the consumer a chance to smell, feel, or try on products before purchasing them—sensory experiences that often result in a decision to buy; browsing is also more pleasurable in person, and lends to increased spending. Personalized customer service and interaction can also be an advantage to brick-and-mortar stores.


   Real World Examples of E-Tailing  

Amazon.com (AMZN) is the world's largest online retailer, providing consumer products and subscriptions through its website. Amazon's website shows the company generated more than $280 billion in revenue in 2019 while posting more than $11.6 billion in profit or net income. Other e-tailers that operate exclusively online and compete with Amazon include Overstock.com and JD.com.



Alibaba Group (BABA) is China's largest e-tailer, which operates an online commerce business throughout China and internationally. Alibaba has adopted a business model that not only includes both B2C and B2B commerce, but it also connects Chinese exporters to companies around the world looking to buy their products. The company's rural Taobao program helps rural consumers and companies in China sell agricultural products to those living in urban areas. For the fiscal year 2020, Alibaba generated nearly $72 billion in annual revenue while posting just under $19.8 billion in profit.
What Is an Elevator Pitch?  

Elevator pitch is a slang term used to describe a brief speech that outlines an idea for a product, service, or project. The name comes from the notion that the speech should be delivered in the short time period of an elevator ride. A good rule of thumb is that an elevator pitch should be approximately 30 seconds long, with a maximum of 60 seconds.



In the financial world, an elevator pitch refers to an entrepreneur's attempt to convince a venture capitalist that a business idea is worth investing in. Generally, a successful elevator pitch will be enough to pique an investor's curiosity and sets the stage for a follow-up meeting. It's during this meeting that the entrepreneur will present the investor with a more formal presentation in the hopes of raising seed capital.





Key Takeaways

An elevator pitch is a slang term that refers to a brief speech that outlines the idea for a product, service, or project.An elevator pitch gets its name from the notion that the speech should be short—no longer than the time period of an elevator ride—or about 30 to 60 seconds long.The objective of an elevator pitch is to pique the listener's curiosity enough for them to take any action, such as asking for more information or scheduling a follow-up meeting.Project managers, salespeople, and job seekers use elevator pitches as a way of marketing themselves, their products, or their ideas.Entrepreneurs use elevator pitches to help obtain startup capital from venture capitalists and angel investors.


   Understanding an Elevator Pitch  

Venture capitalists use the quality of the elevator pitch as a way to judge whether to take the next step on the road to potentially investing in a startup. The elevator pitch is also used by project managers, salespeople, and job seekers as a way to market themselves or their ideas. An elevator pitch should include why your product, idea, or project is worth investing in by explaining such things as the features, benefits, and cost savings.



An elevator pitch is frequently memorized and practiced in advance by entrepreneurs who actively seek backers for their business ideas. There are a variety of forums and events where such pitches are presented before an audience that may include potential investors. For example, startup incubator programs may conclude with a demo day event where a founding member of the team, often the CEO, will deliver the elevator pitch about the company.



In such an instance, the pitch will describe the “pain point” the team is attempting to solve, what approaches have already been attempted to resolve the issue, and what the startup has to offer that has not been tried before. Moreover, the pitch is intended to explain, in clear and direct terms, why the idea or product can succeed where other novel concepts have not.



Depending on the circumstances, some elevator pitches may be longer than the proverbial elevator ride and can go into greater detail about the team involved in developing the idea. The pitch may also provide more information about how the concept will be brought to market, ways it will grow a customer base, and what the broader market opportunities are for the concept.






A twit pitch or pitch on the X platform (formerly Twitter) is even shorter than an elevator pitch. At a standard 280 characters, this type of pitch uses the social media platform to provide a condensed version of a business idea.



Elevator pitches may be used at some events as a form of contest, where the presenters compete for prizes that might assist them in furthering their ideas. This can include nominal funding or business services and mentoring with business veterans. Regardless of winning such a contest, the opportunity to present ideas before an audience of angel investors, venture capitalists, and other possible backers can be seen as a significant benefit of the pitch.


   How to Create an Elevator Pitch  

Fans of the popular TV show Shark Tank are familiar with the show's concept that allows budding entrepreneurs the opportunity to pitch their startup businesses to a panel of investor "sharks." While each entrepreneur's pitch is much longer than a standard elevator pitch, you can still use key elements that appear in most successful Shark Tank presentations as a model to help you create an effective elevator pitch for your own business.



Taking our cue from Shark Tank, you'll want to include the following elements in your elevator pitch:



A quick introduction of yourself and your company
A brief description of the problem your company's product or service solves
Why your solution is unique, has a competitive advantage, or is superior to other solutions
A glimpse into the earnings potential of your product or service
A persuasive call to action



Your elevator pitch should be concise, engaging, and offer just enough tantalizing details that hook your potential "shark investor" into asking for more information then and there or for a follow-up meeting at a later date.




What Do You Say in an Elevator Pitch?
The material you include in your pitch depends on context: what are you pitching, and what do you hope to achieve? If you're promoting yourself as a job candidate, your pitch would include your background, accomplishments, and the value you bring to the organization. If you're pitching a product or service, you'd mention your company's background, what your product or service offers, and how it's different from other offers on the market. Don't forget to close your pitch with a call to action.




How Long Should an Elevator Pitch Be?
An elevator should be about 30 to 60 seconds long—brief, but just long enough to touch on the important points. If you give a successful pitch that piques your audience's curiosity, you'll have time later to go into greater detail.




What Makes an Elevator Pitch Good?
The best elevator pitches are interesting, engaging, and invite the listener to find out more. Deliver your pitch confidently and get to the point quickly if you want to make a good impression. A good elevator pitch sets the stage for further action, whether that's an interview, a meeting, or just an exchange of business cards.


   The Bottom Line  

An elevator pitch is a quick explanation that aims to give your audience enough information that they are interested in learning more. Knowing how to craft a succinct and successful elevator pitch will help you attract people who are interested in what you have to offer, and is often the key to making connections with interested investors.
What Is the Elliott Wave Theory?  

The Elliott Wave Theory in technical analysis describes price movements in the financial market. Developed by Ralph Nelson Elliott, it observes recurring fractal wave patterns identified in stock price movements and consumer behavior. Investors who profit from a market trend are described as riding a wave.





Key Takeaways

The Elliott Wave theory is a technical analysis of price patterns related to changes in investor sentiment and psychology.The theory identifies impulse waves that establish a pattern and corrective waves that oppose the larger trend.Each set of waves is within another set of waves that adhere to the same impulse or corrective pattern, described as a fractal approach to investing.












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   Understanding the Elliott Wave Theory  

The Elliott Wave theory was developed by Ralph Nelson Elliott in the 1930s. He studied 75 years' worth of yearly, monthly, weekly, daily, and self-made hourly and 30-minute charts across various indexes. His theory gained notoriety in 1935 when Elliott made an uncanny prediction of a stock market bottom and has become a staple for thousands of portfolio managers, traders, and private investors.



Elliott defined rules to identify, predict, and capitalize on wave patterns in books, articles, and letters summarized in R.N. Elliott's Masterworks, published in 1994. Elliott Wave International is the largest independent financial analysis and market forecasting firm whose market analysis and forecasting are based on Elliott’s model.



His patterns do not provide any certainty about future price movement but help to order the probabilities for future market action. They can be used with other forms of technical analysis, including technical indicators.






   How Elliott Waves Work  

Some technical analysts profit from wave patterns in the stock market using the Elliott Wave Theory. The theory assumes that stock price movements can be predicted because they move in repeating up-and-down patterns called waves created by investor psychology or sentiment.



The theory is subjective and identifies two different types of waves: motive or impulse waves, and corrective waves. Wave analysis does not equate to a template to follow instructions. Wave analysis offers insights into trend dynamics and helps investors understand price movements.



Impulse and corrective waves are nested in a self-similar fractal to create larger patterns. For example, a one-year chart may be in the midst of a corrective wave, but a 30-day chart may show a developing impulse wave. A trader with this Elliott wave interpretation may have a long-term bearish outlook with a short-term bullish outlook.


   Impulse Waves  

Impulse waves consist of five sub-waves that make net movement in the same direction as the trend of the next-largest degree. This pattern is the most common motive wave and the easiest to spot in a market. It consists of five sub-waves, three of which are motive waves. Two are corrective waves.












Image by Julie Bang Â© Investopedia 2020



Wave 2 can’t retrace more than the beginning of Wave 1Wave 3 can not be the shortest wave of the three impulse waves, 1, 3, and 5Wave 4 does not overlap with the price territory of Wave 1Wave 5 needs to end with momentum divergence



If one rule is violated, the structure is not an impulse wave. The trader would need to re-label the suspected impulse wave.


   Corrective Waves  

Corrective waves, called diagonal waves, consist of three, or a combination of three sub-waves that make net movement in the direction opposite to the trend of the next-largest degree. Its goal is to move the market in the direction of the trend.



The corrective wave consists of 5 sub-waves. The diagonal looks like either an expanding or contracting wedge. The sub-waves of the diagonal may not have a count of five, depending on what type of diagonal is being observed. Each sub-wave of the diagonal never fully retraces the previous sub-wave, and sub-wave 3 of the diagonal may not be the shortest wave.


   Elliot Wave Theory vs. Other Indicators  

Elliott recognized that the Fibonacci sequence denotes the number of waves in impulses and corrections. Wave relationships in price and time also commonly exhibit Fibonacci ratios, such as 38% and 62%. For example, a corrective wave may have a retrace of 38% of the preceding impulse.















Elliott Wave Oscillator Chart.



Other analysts have developed indicators inspired by the Elliott Wave principle, including the Elliott Wave Oscillator Chart. The oscillator provides a computerized method of predicting future price direction based on the difference between a five-period and a 34-period moving average. Elliott Wave International’s artificial intelligence system, EWAVES, applies all Elliott wave rules and guidelines to data to generate automated Elliott wave analysis.




What Is the Elliott Wave Theory?
In technical analysis, the Elliott Wave theory looks at long-term trends in price patterns and how they correspond with investor psychology. These price patterns or ‘waves’ depend on rules developed by Ralph Nelson Elliott in the 1930s. They identify and predict wave patterns within stock markets and help predict future movement. 




How Do Elliott Waves Work?
Based on Elliott's Wave Theory, market prices will alternate between an impulsive phase and a corrective phase. Impulses are always subdivided into a set of 5 lower-degree waves, alternating again between motive and corrective character, so that waves 1, 3, and 5 are impulses, and waves 2 and 4 are smaller retraces of waves 1 and 3.




How Do You Trade Using Elliott Wave Theory?
If a trader sees a stock moving upward on an impulse wave, they may go long until it completes its fifth wave. Anticipating a reversal, the trader may then go short on the stock. Underlying this trading theory is the idea that fractal patterns recur in financial markets. In mathematics, fractal patterns repeat themselves on an infinite scale. 


   The Bottom Line  

The Elliott Wave Theory was developed by Ralph Nelson Elliott. It provides a technical analysis of price patterns related to investor sentiment and psychology. The theory identifies impulse waves that establish a pattern and corrective waves that oppose the larger trend. It assumes that stock price movements can be predicted because they move in repeating up-and-down patterns.



Correction—July 27, 2023: This article has been amended to state that the third impulse wave can never be the shortest of Waves 1, 3, and 5. This article also previously misstated that Wave 4 cannot go beyond the third wave at any time. The content has been revised to state that Wave 4 does not overlap with the price territory of Wave 1 per Elliott Wave Theory.
What Is an Email Money Transfer (EMT)?  

An email money transfer (EMT) is a retail banking service that allows users to transfer funds between personal accounts using email and their online banking service. Used in Canada and available from its largest banking institutions, email money transfers are considered a secure way to transfer money.



EMTs are often referred to as an Interac e-Transfer because the service is provided by Interac, which is a Canadian company involved in creating interbank networks to facilitate financial transactions between banks.





Key Takeaways

An email money transfer allows users to transfer funds between personal accounts, using email and their online banking service.EMT is provided by Interac and is not available to U.S. citizens.Nearly all online banks in Canada offer EMTs.


   How an Email Money Transfer (EMT) Works  

An email money transfer (EMT) is initiated through an account holder's online banking application. Users select the amount to be sent and the specific account from which the funds will be withdrawn. They choose the recipient of these funds, and when confirmed, funds are instantly debited. The Interac e-Transfer service offers auto-deposit and options to request money.



The recipient commonly receives an email with a specific security question along with instructions regarding the retrieval of the funds via a secure website. Funds are deposited immediately at no additional charge if the recipient participates at the online banking institution or it could take three to five additional business days.






Interac e-Transfer is not available in the United States but it is possible to send money from a Canadian bank to the U.S. via Interac's partnership with MasterCard and Western Union.


   Cybersecurity and EMT  

Email money transfer (EMT), as with all banking transactions, may be subject to fraud, so cybersecurity and online financial safety are important. Money in an EMT is not transferred via email in an online money transfer, just the instructions to retrieve and deposit funds from the participants' accounts.



Users should not accept email transfers from unknown parties and contact the sender directly when notified of a transfer that is not expected. Because email is used, the service is susceptible to phishing scams.




Who Can Use EMT for Money Transfers?
Most email money transfers are completed by clients of the big five banks in Canada along with other financial institutions.




Is Email Money Transfer Available for Businesses?
Interac offers email money transfer services for businesses, which have options like bulk processing services, bulk receivables, and bulk payables, as well as invoicing capabilities for business customers.




How Does Interac Keep Transactions Secure?
Interac uses encryption technology including confidential user IDs and passwords, a secure login process, security questions, and 128-bit browser encryption.


   The Bottom Line  

An email money transfer allows users to transfer funds between personal accounts using email and their online banking service. EMT is provided by Interac but is not available to U.S. citizens. Interac uses encryption technology to provide secure transactions.
What Is an Embargo?  

An embargo is a trade restriction, typically adopted by a government, a group of countries or an international organization as an economic sanction. Embargoes can bar all trade, or may apply only to some of it, for example to arms imports. They are designed to punish the targeted country for its actions, and to deny it the means to carry out objectionable policies.





Key Takeaways

Embargoes are international trade restrictions adopted in response to objectionable policies.Embargoes have been more effective in punishing targeted countries than in getting them to alter their behavior.U.S. embargoes bar trade with Cuba, North Korea, Iran, and Syria, and trade restrictions on Russia and Russian-occupied Ukraine have had a similar effect.The U.S. faced an Arab oil embargo in 1973-1974 over its support for Israel.


   How an Embargo Works  

Countries use embargoes to punish and deter objectionable behavior without resorting to military force, often in response to human rights violations and armed conflict. A widely observed embargo can be a powerful tool, isolating the targeted country and denying it the benefits of international trade.



Countries dependent on global trade or technology imports are especially vulnerable to embargoes. In contrast, determined authoritarian regimes have successfully resisted embargoes for decades, often at immense cost to living standards.


   U.S. Trade Embargoes  

The U.S. has imposed long-running and comprehensive trade embargoes on Cuba, North Korea, Iran, and Syria, countries whose policies it finds particularly objectionable. Those embargoes are backed by a variety of legislative acts and presidential orders.



The U.S. president has the authority to impose embargoes and other sanctions during times of war under the Trading With the Enemy Act.



Another act, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, authorizes the president to enact commerce restrictions during strictly defined periods of national emergency.



In the U.S., the Office of Foreign Assets Control, a division of the Department of the Treasury, administers embargoes. The office also plays a central role in tracking down and freezing sources of funding for terrorist and drug-trafficking organizations.


   Effect of Embargoes  

Embargoes rarely result in a change in policy, much less in the targeted country's government. For example, the U.S. embargo on Cuba, in effect since 1962, has failed to oust the country's governing communist party or to persuade it to tolerate dissent.



Similarly, the embargo on oil exports to the U.S. imposed by Arab members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) during the 1973 Arab-Israeli War failed to end U.S. support for Israel.



Embargoes can be successful in their goal of punishing the targeted country, however. For example, the 1973-1974 Arab oil embargo caused fuel shortages, rationing, and soaring gas prices, increasing the cost of America's foreign policy.



In the 1980s, limited trade restrictions imposed on South Africa along with investment and other economic sanctions by several countries including the U.S. hastened the end of apartheid.



Limited trade sanctions imposed on Russia following its invasion and occupation of parts of Ukraine in 2014 failed to deter renewed Russian aggression in 2022. The broader U.S. and allied sanctions imposed since February 2022 have reportedly deprived the Russian military of semiconductors vital for military electronics as well as parts needed to manufacture tanks.



The boycott, divestment and sanctions movement, which uses the South Africa model to promote sanctions punishing Israel for occupying Palestinian territory, has prompted fierce opposition from Israel and its allies in an indication of the high costs such sanctions could impose.


   Criticism of Embargoes  

In addition to their limited likelihood of prompting a policy change by the targeted country, embargoes have been criticized for hurting subject populations with no role in setting or carrying out the objectionable policies.



Notably, the international economic embargo imposed on Iraq following its 1990 invasion of Kuwait drew criticism for hurting the poorest and sickest Iraqis the most. Similar arguments have been made in opposition to the U.S. embargo on Iran over violations of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.




What Countries Are Subject to a U.S. Embargo?
Trade with Cuba, North Korea, Iran and Syria is prohibited under broad U.S. embargoes. U.S. restrictions on trade with Russia and Ukrainian territories under Russian occupation have also been described as an embargo.




Can an Embargo Be Effective?
Embargos have been more effective in punishing the targeted country than in changing its policies, though trade was included in the economic sanctions credited for encouraging South Africa to end apartheid. The trade sanctions imposed on Russia following its 2022 invasion of Ukraine have been credited for disrupting Russian military supplies.




What Are the Legal Underpinnings of U.S. Trade Embargoes?
U.S. trade embargoes are based on laws passed in Congress and executive orders signed by U.S. presidents. The U.S. Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control administers the embargoes and fields applications for exemptions.
What Is Embezzlement?  

Embezzlement refers to a form of white-collar crime in which a person or entity intentionally misappropriates the assets entrusted to them. In this type of fraud, the embezzler attains the assets lawfully and has the right to possess them, but the assets are then used for unintended purposes.



Embezzlement is a breach of the fiduciary responsibilities placed upon a person.





Key Takeaways

Embezzlement takes place when a person intentionally uses funds for a different purpose than they were intended to be used.The embezzler has permission to handle an asset in a certain way, but not to take it.Embezzlers might create bills and receipts for activities that did not occur and then use the money paid for personal expenses.Ponzi schemes are an example of embezzlement. Others include destroying employee records or pocketing company cash.Businesses lost approximately $400 billion each year to theft.Embezzlers can be held civilly and criminally responsible for their crimes.


   Understanding Embezzlement  

Individuals who are entrusted with access to an organization’s funds are expected to safeguard those assets for their intended use. It is illegal to intentionally access that money and convert it to personal use. Such activities can include diverting funds to accounts that appear to be authorized to receive payments or transfers.



However, the account is a front that allows the individual, or a third party they are collaborating with, to take the funding. For instance, an embezzler might create bills and receipts for business activities that never took place or services that were never rendered to disguise the transfer of funds as a legitimate transaction.



An embezzler might collaborate with a partner who is listed as a consultant or contractor who issues invoices and receives payment, yet never actually performs the duties they are charging for.



The nature of embezzlement can be both small and large. Embezzling funds can be as minor as a store clerk pocketing a few bucks from a cash register. However, on a grander scale, embezzlement also occurs when the executives of large companies falsely expense millions of dollars, transferring the funds into personal accounts. Depending on the scale of the crime, embezzlement may be punishable by large fines and time in jail.


   How Embezzlement Occurs  

Embezzlement occurs when someone steals or misappropriates what they were entrusted to manage or safeguard. The property or asset need not be of substantial value for embezzlement to occur. Although closely related, it differs from fraud in that the embezzler had authorization to use or oversee the property or funds.



Some types of embezzlement might be combined with other forms of fraud, such as Ponzi schemes. In such cases, the embezzler scams investors to entrust them with their assets to invest on their behalf but instead uses the money for personal gain and enrichment. Maintaining the fraud often includes seeking out new investors to bring in more money to appease prior investors.





150 years

The number of years Bernie Madoff was sentenced to for orchestrating the largest Ponzi scheme in history.



An embezzler might also transfer other assets aside from money. An embezzler might claim the real estate, company vehicles, smartphones, and other hardware such as laptops that belong to an organization for personal use.



Embezzlement might take place in the government sector as well if employees seize local, state, or national funding for themselves. Such instances may occur when funding is disbursed to fulfill contracts or to support projects, and a member of the staff skims some of the money that was earmarked.



People who embezzle can be charged with a criminal offense and/or held civilly responsible for their crimes. Punishment can range from paying monetary damages and restitution to victims to incarceration. White-collar offenses don't prevent offenders from being prescribed lengthy prison sentences, ones traditionally handed to violent offenders.


   How to Prevent Embezzlement  

Theft and embezzlement cost companies approximately $400 billion per year and account for more than 50% of business failures. However, employers can develop strategies to combat these white-collar crimes.



Embezzlement starts with the breach of trust of a person endowed with the authority to care for the property or money of another. Reasonably, one of the first steps an employer can take is to carefully vet prospective employees. In addition to conducting thorough background checks, assessing character traits via personality tests could reveal undesirable behaviors.



A security and monitoring program could also deter corporate crime, especially when performed by a dedicated risk management team or an independent, third party. These risk managers can create internal controls that monitor behaviors and allow for the anonymous reporting of suspicious activities, as well as conduct periodic audits that expose misappropriations.



Early detection helps to mitigate losses and protect the company's reputation and the people it serves. Employers should make clear that they have a no-tolerance policy regarding illegal acts such as embezzling and communicate the consequences of such violations. Every company should promote a culture of honesty and fairness, encouraging its employees to remain vigilant and report instances of wrongdoing.




How Does One Legally Prove Embezzlement?
To legally prove embezzlement, the claimant must prove that the perpetrator had a fiduciary responsibility to the victim and that the embezzled asset was acquired through that relationship and conveyed to the accused intentionally. The key to spotting embezzlement is that it involves a betrayal of trust or duty. While this looks different in every state, generally, these four factors must be present:There must be a fiduciary relationship between the two parties. That is, there must be a reliance by one party on the other.The defendant must have acquired the property through that relationship, The defendant's actions must have been intentional, and not the result of an error;The defendant must have taken ownership of the property (at least temporarily), transferred the property to someone else, or destroyed or hidden the property.




What Is the Punishment for Embezzlement?
A person can be held civilly and criminally responsible for embezzling. Punishments range from monetary fines and restitution to imprisonment.




What Is a White Collar Crime?
A white-collar crime is a non-violent crime committed by a business professional who breached trust for economic gain. White-collar crimes include fraud, theft, counterfeiting, embezzlement, money laundering, and other fraudulent schemes.
What Was the Emergency Banking Act of 1933?  

The Emergency Banking Act of 1933 was a bill passed in the midst of the Great Depression that took steps to stabilize and restore confidence in the U.S. banking system. It came in the wake of a series of bank runs following the stock market crash of 1929.



Among its major measures, the Act created the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), which began insuring bank accounts at no cost for up to $2,500. Additionally, the president was given executive power to operate independently of the Federal Reserve during times of financial crisis.





Key Takeaways

The Emergency Banking Act of 1933 was a legislative response to the bank failures of the Great Depression, and the public's lack of faith in the U.S. financial system.The Act, which temporarily closed banks for four days for inspection, served immediately to shore up confidence in the banks and to provide a boost to the stock market.Many of its key provisions have endured to this day, notably the insuring of bank accounts by the FDIC and the executive powers it granted the president to respond to financial crises.


   Understanding the Emergency Banking Act  

The Act was conceived after other measures failed to fully remedy how the Depression strained the U.S. monetary system. By early 1933, the Depression had been ravaging the American economy and its banks for nearly four years. Mistrust in financial institutions grew, prompting a rising flood of Americans to withdraw their money from the system rather than risk leaving it in banks.



Despite attempts in many states to limit the amount of money any individual could take out of a bank, withdrawals surged as continuing bank failures heightened anxiety and, in a vicious cycle, spurred still more withdrawals and failures.



While the Act originated during the administration of Herbert Hoover, it passed on March 9, 1933, shortly after Franklin D. Roosevelt was inaugurated. It was the subject of the first of Roosevelt's legendary fireside chats, in which the new president addressed the nation directly about the state of the country.



Roosevelt used the chat to explain the provisions of the Act and why they were necessary. That included outlining the need for an unprecedented four-day shutdown of all U.S. banks in order to fully implement the Act. During that time, Roosevelt explained, banks would be inspected for their financial stability before being allowed to resume operations.



The inspections, together with the Act's other provisions, aimed to reassure Americans that the federal government was closely monitoring the financial system to ensure it met high standards of stability and trustworthiness.



On March 13, the first banks to reopen were the 12 regional Federal Reserve banks. These were followed on the next day by banks in cities with federal clearinghouses. The remaining banks deemed fit to operate were given permission to reopen on March 15.





From FDR's Fireside Chat

"Remember that no sound bank is a dollar worse off than it was when it closed its doors last week."


   Important Effects of the Emergency Banking Act  

Uncertainty, even anxiety, about whether people would believe President Roosevelt's assurances that their money was safe all but evaporated as banks reopened to long depositor lines. The stock market also weighed in enthusiastically, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average rising by 8.26 points, a gain of more than 15%, on March 15, when all eligible banks had reopened.



The effects of the Emergency Banking Act continued, with some still seen today. The FDIC continues to operate and virtually every reputable bank in the U.S. is a member of it. Certain provisions, such as the extension of the president's executive power in times of financial crisis, remain in effect. The Act also completely changed the face of the American currency system by taking the United States off the gold standard.



The loss of personal savings from bank failures and bank runs had gravely damaged trust in the financial system. Perhaps most importantly, the Act reminded the country that a lack of confidence in the banking system can become a self-fulfilling prophecy, and that mass panic can do the financial system, and the people of the nation, great harm.


   Other Laws Similar to the Emergency Banking Act  

The Emergency Banking Act was preceded and followed by other pieces of legislation designed to stabilize and restore trust in the U.S. financial system. Approved during Herbert Hoover's administration, the Reconstruction Finance Corporation Act sought to provide aid for financial institutions and companies that were in danger of shutting down due to the ongoing economic effects of the Depression. The Federal Home Loan Bank Act of 1932 similarly sought to strengthen the banking industry and the Federal Reserve.



A few related pieces of legislation were passed shortly after the Emergency Banking Act. The Glass-Steagall Act also passed in 1933. This act separated investment banking from commercial banking to combat the corruption of commercial banks that engaged in speculative investing. Such speculation was recognized as a key cause of the stock market crash.



Glass-Steagall was repealed in 1999, however, and some believe its demise helped contribute to the 2008 global credit crisis.



A similar act, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, was passed at the beginning of the Great Recession. In contrast to the Emergency Banking Act, the focus of this legislation was the mortgage crisis, with legislators intent on enabling millions of Americans to keep their homes.




Was the Emergency Banking Act a Success or Failure?
Overall, a success. In immediate terms, confidence was restored and customers brought the money they'd withdrawn back to deposit at their banks. Decades later, the FDIC continues to support bank customers' confidence by insuring their deposits to this day.




What Effect Did the Emergency Banking Act Have on the Fed?
It changed the dynamic of control over monetary policy because the act granted the president greater power to respond, independent of the Federal Reserve, during a financial crisis.




Did People Believe Roosevelt's Fireside Chat About the Emergency Banking Act?
Yes, they did. Confidence in the act and in Roosevelt was demonstrated clearly when people lined up to put their money back into their bank accounts once banks reopened. Roosevelt famously said during this fireside chat, "I can assure you that it is safer to keep your money in a reopened bank than under the mattress."


   The Bottom Line  

The Emergency Banking Act of 1933 was legislation intended to restore the nation's confidence in its financial system after banks had been shut down for a week (the famous "bank holiday") to prevent any more runs by depositors.



Its effects are seen to this day, in the continued role of the FDIC to insure bank deposits and in the lasting executive power that presidents have during financial crises.
What Is an Emergency Fund?  

The term “emergency fund” refers to money stashed away that people can use in times of financial distress. The purpose of an emergency fund is to improve financial security by creating a safety net that can be used to meet unanticipated expenses, such as an illness or major home repairs.



Assets in an emergency fund tend to be cash or other highly liquid assets. This reduces the need to either draw from high-interest debt options, such as credit cards or unsecured loans, or undermine your future security by tapping into retirement funds.



Spanish Translation of Emergency Fund





Key Takeaways

An emergency fund is a financial safety net for future mishaps and/or unexpected expenses.Emergency funds should typically have three to six months’ worth of expenses, although the 2020 economic crisis and lockdown has led some experts to suggest up to one year’s worth.Individuals should keep their emergency funds in accounts that are easily accessible and easily liquidated.Savers can use tax refunds and other windfalls to build up their funds.Some employers have established programs to encourage emergency fund saving.


   Understanding Emergency Funds  

You establish an emergency fund when you put away money that is intended to be used during times of financial hardship. This includes the loss of your job, a debilitating illness, or a major repair to your home or car—not to mention the kind of major economic crisis and lockdown that happened in 2020.



The best size for an emergency fund depends on a number of factors, including your financial situation, expenses, lifestyle, and debts. Many financial advisors recommend saving enough to cover anywhere from three to six months’ worth of expenses, which can help you weather a modest healthcare bill or a short bout of unemployment.



However, some experts argue for an even heftier cushion. Celebrity finance guru Suze Orman, for example, suggests an emergency fund that can handle up to eight months’ worth of outlays. And she made that contention well before the 2020 crisis, a stark reminder of how sudden and deep an economic slump can be.



Individual circumstances may dictate the specific savings level with which you’re comfortable. For example, a single adult without children may be content covering three months of expenses, while the sole breadwinner for an entire family may want to have enough to cover half a year or more. Research shows that many Americans are well short of the recommended range. In fact, a 2020 survey by the Federal Reserve found that more than one-fourth of Americans lacked the ability to cover a $400 expense with cash or its equivalents. Among unemployed workers, that figure rose to 45%.



If you’re living paycheck to paycheck, you may want to start with more modest goals, such as putting 2% of your net income into a rainy day fund and slowly increasing your contribution rate every few months. Even a modest safety net can help buy you a little time should you face an unforeseen financial crisis.






It may be tempting to use your fund for incidental or frivolous purposes, so make sure that you don’t deplete this resource for any purpose other than an actual emergency.


   How to Build an Emergency Fund  

Starting early is the key to setting up an emergency fund, because it helps you build up a comfortable cushion against unexpected emergencies later in life. Getting a start on emergency funds is relatively easy. Here are two simple ways to begin saving for one.



Set aside a comfortable amount from your salary each month. Calculate your living expenses for the desired period, and make that your target for an emergency fund. You can then divert a portion of your paycheck—perhaps by setting up an automatic transfer—to that account each month. Once the fund is built up, invest extra savings for the long term or other goals, such as the down payment on a mortgage. Once you’ve maxed out your retirement savings, that money could go into an investment account with higher risks and rewards.
Save your tax refund. You may be tempted to think of a tax refund or stimulus check as extra money for discretionary spending. Instead, consider diverting it toward your emergency fund to give you an added financial cushion.



You probably want to park your emergency fund in a vehicle that can be easily liquidated should a financial need suddenly arise. While storing cash in a savings account may be the safest approach, there are other relatively secure ways to store a part of your emergency fund that offer greater interest-earning potential. These include high-interest savings accounts, money market accounts, and no-penalty certificates of deposit (CDs), which don’t charge savers a fee if they need to pull their money out before the maturity date. You’ll have the access you need in an emergency but won’t be incurring fees and time delays associated with other vehicles, such as brokerage accounts.



You may want to build an emergency fund before venturing into volatile investment vehicles such as stocks. The latter offer greater long-term growth potential than cash and cash equivalents, but their value can suddenly decrease in the event of an economic downturn, as the 2020 economic crisis and lockdown made vividly clear. Should that be the moment when you need to tap them, you could lose more value. An emergency fund protects your portfolio against that risk.





Tip

Want more advice for saving money toward your financial goals? Order a copy of Investopedia's What To Do With $10,000 magazine.


   Helping Employees Save  

A number of major employers have introduced programs encouraging emergency savings because of the effects of financial instability on productivity and retirement security. Here’s a sampling of programs from three major companies.



Truist Financial Corp.: Through its Truist Momentum program, the parent of SunTrust and BB&T banks offers $750 to employees who complete an eight-part financial education program, then open and fund an emergency savings account. More than 48,000 employees have graduated as of Aug. 6, 2021, according to the company.
Levi Strauss & Co.: The apparel brand gives hourly employees up to $240 each in matching funds through its Red Tab Foundation when they make qualifying contributions to their savings accounts over a six-month period. Workers also receive a $20 bonus when they link their bank account to the company’s online platform.
Prudential Financial Inc.: Retirement plans administered by Prudential allow employees to divert part of their paycheck toward a savings account, encouraging them to create a financial safety net. This feature serves as after-tax emergency savings and allows employees to withdraw the funds if an emergency arises, while preserving their before-tax retirement contributions.


   Example of an Emergency Fund  

Here’s a hypothetical example showing how to assemble an emergency fund. Let’s say a married couple has monthly expenses totaling $5,000. This includes the couple’s mortgage payments, food bills, car payments, and other necessary outlays. Using the three-month rule, the couple needs to set aside at least $15,000 (or $30,000 for six months and $40,000 for eight months) to address any unexpected financial burdens.




How much should I have in an emergency fund?
The amount varies according to your living expenses, but the general rule of thumb is to eventually save three to six months of living expenses.




How can I create an emergency fund if I am living paycheck to paycheck?
It won’t be easy, but instead of worrying about your eventual savings amount, decide on a percentage of take-home pay that you can do without. It can be 1% or 2%. The important thing is to save a set amount each payday and not touch it. The money will add up.




What is an emergency fund for?
As simple as the answer seems, it is important to make sure that you can distinguish between what is an emergency and what isn’t. An emergency is an unexpected bill that you can’t pay—not money to go to a movie or for some other nonessential expense.
What Is an Emerging Industry?  

An emerging industry is a group of companies in a line of business formed around a new product or idea that is in the early stages of development. An emerging industry typically consists of just a few companies and is often centered around new technology. Emerging industries frequently come into existence when one technology begins to eclipse and replace an older technology.



Stocks of companies in emerging industries are often volatile and can experience wide price swings. It can be hard to value such companies, especially if they have little revenue or have yet to make a profit. While early investors hope to get in on the ground floor of what might be the next Google or Apple, the risks of investing in an emerging industry can be quite high.





Key Takeaways

An emerging industry refers to companies that are formed around a new product or idea that is in the early stages of development.Companies that are in emerging industries must overcome many barriers to entry if they are to become profitable.These barriers may include the lack of sufficient funding, the inability to take advantage of economies of scale, government restrictions, and competition from established companies.Examples of current emerging industries include artificial intelligence (AI), robotics, virtual reality, self-driving cars, and biotechnology.Several exchange traded funds (ETFs) have been created to enable investment in emerging industries while reducing some of the risks associated with investing in these new sectors.


   Understanding an Emerging Industry  

It may take years for an emerging industry to reach profitability. Research and development (R&D) expenses will comprise the bulk of the early operating expenses of companies in the industry. Also, marketing expenses will be high because the product or service is largely unknown and unproven, so companies in an emerging industry must convince both investors and consumers that the product or service will be valuable. Investing in an emerging industry is a high risk-reward proposition.


   Barriers to Entry  

Barriers to entry in an emerging industry can be relatively high because of the level of expertise required to compete in the new field. Examples of these barriers include scarce resources to manufacture a company's products, inability to take advantage of economies of scale, lack of sufficient financing, government restrictions, and competition from established companies.



However, despite these barriers, many entrants will rush into a new industry in an attempt to gain an early advantage. They will raise money (if they can), hire key personnel, and secure the services of influential advisors. Many of these entrants, however, will eventually discover they do not have the skills or sufficient funds to bring a product or service to market, and at some point, fail entirely.


   Examples of Emerging Industries  

The world in the mid-1990s knew the Internet as an emerging industry. Hundreds of companies formed to try to capitalize on the new technology. The dotcom bubble refers to the rapid proliferation of Internet-based companies that fueled a bull market in technology stocks. Speculation grew and venture capitalists poured money into many startups that, in some cases, had no actual product or service to sell.



By the end of 2001 and into 2002, the dotcom bubble burst, and many publicly traded companies folded. However, those companies that offered valuable consumer services and products—such as Amazon and eBay—survived and flourished, becoming standard-bearers for the emerging Internet industry.



Emerging industries in the current era—perhaps viewed as the next evolution of the Internet—are artificial intelligence (AI), virtual reality, and self-driving vehicles. Again, only a select few companies with the financial resources and intellectual property are thus far dominating the nascent fields. The biotechnology industry, however, is experiencing such breakthroughs in immunotherapy and gene therapy that it can be considered an emerging industry, or at the very least, a sector with growth potential at an inflection point.


   Special Considerations  

Many investors are interested in diversifying their portfolios by investing in emerging industries. However, the risks associated with investing in individual companies that are in the early stages of development deter many would-be investors from taking action.



The creation of exchange traded funds (ETFs) that focus on specific new sectors can offer investors a way to invest in emerging industries while mitigating some of the risks. For example, there are ETFs that target artificial intelligence and robotics companies. Blockchain ETFs invest in companies involved in blockchain technology. Biotech ETFs have become favorites among investors looking to gain exposure in companies making advancements in medicine, pharmaceuticals, and genetics.
What Is an Emerging Market Economy?  

An emerging market economy is the economy of a developing nation that is becoming more engaged with global markets as it grows. Countries classified as emerging market economies are those with some, but not all, of the characteristics of a developed market.



Characteristics of developed markets may include strong economic growth, high per capita income, liquid equity and debt markets, accessibility by foreign investors, and a dependable regulatory system.



As an emerging market economy develops, it typically becomes more integrated with the global economy. That means it can have increased liquidity in local debt and equity markets, increased trade volume and foreign direct investment. It can develop modern financial and regulatory institutions. Currently, some notable emerging market economies include India, Mexico, Russia, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, China, and Brazil.



Critically, an emerging market economy is transitioning from a low income, less developed, often pre-industrial economy towards a modern, industrial economy with a higher standard of living.





Key Takeaways

An emerging market economy is an economy that's transitioning into a developed economy.Emerging market economies typically feature a unified currency, stock market, and banking system; they're in the process of industrializing.Emerging market economies can offer greater returns to investors due to their rapid growth.They also offer greater exposure to some inherent risks due to their status.Over time, emerging markets typically adopt reforms seen in developed markets.












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   Understanding an Emerging Market Economy  

Investors seek out emerging markets for the prospect of high returns because these markets often experience faster economic growth as measured by gross domestic product (GDP). However, along with higher returns usually comes much greater risk.


  Risks of Emerging Markets  

This risk can include political instability, domestic infrastructure problems, currency volatility, and illiquid equity, as many large companies may still be state-run or private. Also, local stock exchanges may not offer liquid markets to outside investors.



Emerging markets generally do not have as highly developed market and regulatory institutions as those found in developed nations. Market efficiency and strict standards in accounting and securities regulation are generally not on par with advanced economies (such as those of the United States, Europe, and Japan).


  Signs of Progress  

However, emerging markets typically have a physical financial infrastructure, including banks, a stock exchange, and a unified currency. A key aspect of emerging market economies is that over time, they adopt reforms and institutions like those of modern developed countries. This promotes economic growth.



Emerging market economies tend to move away from activities focused on agricultural and resource extraction toward industrial and manufacturing activities. Their governments usually pursue deliberate industrial and trade strategies to encourage economic growth and industrialization.



These strategies include export led growth and import substituting industrialization. The former strategy is more typical of economies that are considered emerging since it promotes more engagement and trade with the global economy.



Emerging market countries also often pursue domestic programs such as investing in educational systems, building physical infrastructure, and enacting legal reforms to secure investors' property rights.





Frontier Markets

Frontier markets are usually smaller than emerging markets, with lower per capita income, less market liquidity, and less industrialization. While they offer attractive investment opportunities, frontier markets are considered riskier for investors than emerging markets.


   How Emerging Market Economies Are Classified  

Emerging market economies are classified in different ways by different observers. Levels of income, quality of financial systems, and growth rates are all popular criteria but the exact list of emerging market economies can vary depending on who you ask.



For example, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) classifies 20 countries as emerging markets while Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI) classifies 24 countries as emerging markets. Standard and Poor's (S&P), FTSE Russell, and Dow Jones also vary slightly in their classification of countries as emerging markets.



At any of these institutions' discretion, a country can be removed from the list by either upgrading it to developed nation status or downgrading it to a frontier nation. Likewise, developed nations may be downgraded to an emerging market, as was the case with Greece. Frontier markets may be upgraded to an emerging market, as was the case for Qatar and Argentina.




What's an Emerging Market Economy?
An emerging market economy generally is considered an economy that is transitioning into a developed market economy. It has rapid GDP growth, growing per capita income, increasing debt and equity markets liquidity, and an established financial system infrastructure.




What Countries Are Classified As Emerging Markets?
Classifications differ. However, the so-called BRICS countries represent 5 emerging markets with major economic growth and opportunities for investment. The GDP of these countries—Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa—has increased steadily from 2000 to the present day. That trend is expected to continue through the years ahead. Thailand and Indonesia have also made the emerging market scene.




Do Emerging Markets Make Good Investments?
They can make good investments due to their propensity for rapid GDP growth compared to more mature markets. At the same time, investing in emerging markets can be risky. For instance, potential political instability, lack of dependable information, currency fluctuations, lower liquidity, and investment volatility. Carefully weigh potential risks and rewards before making any investment.


   The Bottom Line  

Countries classified as emerging market economies are those with an economy that is transitioning into being developed. These countries have a unified currency, stock market, and banking system, and they're in the process of industrializing.



Although emerging market economies, due to their rapid growth and greater returns, are attractive to investors, they also offer involve greater exposure and risk due to political instability or currency fluctuations, among others.
What Is the Emerging Markets Bond Index (EMBI)?  

The emerging markets bond index (EMBI) is a benchmark index for measuring the total return performance of international government and corporate bonds issued by emerging market countries that meet specific liquidity and structural requirements. Despite their increased riskiness relative to developed markets, emerging market bonds offer several potential benefits such as portfolio diversity as their returns are not closely correlated to traditional asset classes.





Key Takeaways

The emerging markets bond index (EMBI) tracks the performance of emerging market bonds and was first published by investment bank JP Morgan.Emerging market bonds are debt instruments issued by developing countries, which tend to carry higher yields than government or corporate bonds of developed countries.Most of the benchmark EMBI index tracks emerging sovereign debt, with the rest in regional corporate bonds.


   Understanding the Emerging Markets Bond Index  

An emerging market describes a developing country or economy that is progressing toward becoming more advanced by rapidly industrializing and adopting free-market economies. The largest emerging markets include Nigeria, China, India, Brazil, South Africa, Poland, Mexico, Turkey, Argentina, Russia, etc. To take advantage of the rapid growth occurring in these countries, investors look to bonds issued by the government of these nations.



Emerging market debt or bonds are considered sovereign debt. These government bonds are typically issued in foreign currencies, either in US dollars, euros, or Japanese yen. Because of the increased economic and political risk present in these countries, the credit rating on emerging market bonds tend to be lower than that on developed market bonds. Due to the perceived higher risk of investing in these assets, the sovereign bonds have higher yields for investors than that of more stable bonds in developed countries. For example, the PIMCO Emerging Local Bond Fund delivered a total return of more than 14% in the first nine months of 2017, while the iShares Core US Aggregate Bond ETF gained 3.1% during the same time period. Investors who want exposure to emerging economies and who are willing to take on additional risk typically do so through mutual funds or exchange-traded funds (ETFs) that track the performance of a benchmark index, such as the emerging markets bond index.


   How the EMBI Is Used  

Emerging markets bond indexes are used as benchmarks for bond performance in emerging markets. The most popular emerging markets bond indexes are the JP Morgan EMBI+ Index, JP Morgan EMBI Global Index, and JP Morgan EMBI Global Diversified Index. The EMBI+ Index measures Brady bonds, which are dollar-denominated bonds issued primarily by Latin American countries. The EMBI+ also includes dollar-denominated loans and Eurobonds and expands on J.P. Morgan’s original Emerging Markets Bond Index (EMBI), which was introduced in 1992 when it covered only Brady bonds. Countries in the EMBI+ index are selected according to a sovereign credit rating level. The index is weighted on the basis of the market capitalization of government bonds, but it is the sub-index with the greatest liquidity requirements, so some markets are excluded. To qualify for index membership, the debt must be more than one year to maturity, have at least a $500 million outstanding face value, and meet stringent trading guidelines to ensure that pricing inefficiencies don't affect the index.


   EMBI+  

The JP Morgan EMBI Global Index is an extended version of the EMBI+ Index. The EMBI Global has the same criteria as the EMBI+. However, it does not select countries based on their sovereign credit rating level. Instead, the index includes a number of higher-rated countries through a formula which combines the World Bank-defined per capita income brackets and each country's debt-restructuring history. Hence, it is somewhat more comprehensive, broader, and, thus, more representative than the EMBI+ Index.



The EMBI Global Diversified limits the weights of countries with larger debt stocks by only including a specified portion of these countries’ eligible current face amounts of debt outstanding. The large markets are weighted lower, and the small markets are weighted higher than in the EMBI Global Index.



The J.P. Morgan indexes are a popular benchmark for money managers that deal in emerging market debt so that investors may see the index used as a comparison for their mutual funds or exchange-traded funds. Because of their higher interest rates, emerging market bonds can significantly outperform U.S. Treasury bonds. Other emerging bond indexes include Barclays USD Emerging Market GovRIC Cap Index, DB Emerging Market USD Liquid Balanced Index, and Bloomberg USD Emerging Market Sovereign Bond Index.


   iShares JPMorgan USD Emerging Markets Bond ETF  

Launched with the help of iShares in December 2007, the iShares JPMorgan USD Emerging Markets Bond ETF (EMB) tracks the JPMorgan EMBI Global Core Index. EMBI Global Core is a very broad, U.S.-dollar denominated, emerging-markets debt benchmark. It is also highly diverse – no single debt instrument comprises more than 2% of total holdings, and most fall short of 1%. Nearly three-quarters of the EMBI Global Core is emerging government debt, with most of the rest focused on high-yielding corporate bonds. The expense ratio is in line with what you’d expect from an iShares ETF at 0.40%.



The iShares JPMorgan USD Emerging Markets Bond ETF is best suited for investors are looking for a diversified path to high-yielding fixed income. The fund has holdings in 50 countries, including in allocation in Russia, Mexico, Poland, Hungary, South Africa, and the Philippines.
What Is the MSCI Emerging Markets Index?  

The MSCI Emerging Markets Index is a selection of stocks that is designed to track the financial performance of key companies in fast-growing nations. It is one of a number of indexes created by MSCI Inc., formerly Morgan Stanley Capital International.



U.S. investors who want to buy into global stocks can buy shares of an exchange-traded fund (ETF) that mirrors the index. There are also many ETFs and mutual funds that use the MSCI Emerging Markets Index as a benchmark for their own performance.






The MSCI Emerging Markets Index is used to measure the financial performance of companies in fast-growing economies around the world. The index tracks mid-cap and large-cap stocks in 25 countries.Its top holdings currently concentrate on Asian and Indian companies in the infotech, financial, and consumer discretionary sectors.Investors can invest in the index through an ETF that mirrors it or a fund that uses it as a benchmark.All emerging market funds are considered long-term, high-risk investments, with outsized potential for gains and losses.


   Understanding the MSCI Emerging Markets Index  

The MSCI Emerging Markets Index reflects the performance of large-cap and medium-cap companies in 25 nations. All are defined as emerging markets. That is, their economies or some sectors of their economies are seen to be rapidly expanding and engaging aggressively with global markets.



The MSCI Emerging Markets Index currently includes the stocks of companies based in Brazil, Chile, China, Colombia, Czech Republic, Egypt, Greece, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Korea, Kuwait, Malaysia, Mexico, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, and the United Arab Emirates.



The index was created in 1988. At that time, companies in only 10 nations were represented. Today, the index is widely used to measure the economic performance of emerging market companies. It is also used by emerging market ETFs and mutual funds as a benchmark against which to measure their own performance.






MSCI has a number of indexes that track global stocks, including the MSCI World Index, which tracks the stocks of developed nations, and the MSCI All-Country World Index, which tracks a broad selection of stocks across both developed and emerging nations.


   MSCI Emerging Markets Index Performance  

As of December 2021, the MSC Emerging Markets Index recorded a one-year net return of -2.54%, a five-year annualized return of 9.87%, and a 10-year annualized return of 5.49%. Since its inception on Dec. 29, 2000, it has returned an annualized 8.97%.



By contrast, the MSCI World Index returned 21.82% in one year, 15.03% for the five-year period, and 12.70% for the 10-year period. Since Dec. 29, 2000, it has returned an annualized 6.72%.



The MSCI ACWI Index returned 18.54% in the past year, 14.40% for the five-year period, and 11.85% over 10 years. Its return since Dec. 29, 2000, was 6.68%.


   Investing in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index  

The MSCI Emerging Markets Index is not a fund in itself. Investors can buy shares in exchange-traded funds or mutual funds that buy stocks listed in the index, however.



For example, the iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index ETF (EEM) invests at least 80% of its assets in stocks and American depositary receipts included in the index. There are several other ETFs that mirror the MSCI Emerging Market Index, but the iShares fund is by far the largest.



There also are funds that do not mirror the MSCI Emerging Markets Index but use it as a benchmark against which to measure their own performance. These include Avantis Emerging Markets Equity ETF (AVEM), Innovator MSCI Emerging Markets Power Buffer ETF January Series (EJAN), and Innovator MSCI Emerging Markets Power Buffer ETF July Series (EJUL).



There are many other choices of emerging market ETFs and emerging market mutual funds that track other indexes, such as the FTSI Emerging Markets Index. These include managed mutual funds that do not mirror an index but do their own stock-picking.



Emerging markets are considered a risky investment, due to political risks and currency exchange fluctuations. Investors who turn to emerging markets should expect volatile returns. The potential gains are substantial, and so are the potential losses.



They can be used to add some diversity to a portfolio that is heavy on U.S. assets.


   MSCI Emerging Markets Index Composition  

As of December 2021, the index reflected the performance of 1,420 constituents across 25 nations. The top 10 were:



Taiwan Semiconductor Mfg (Taiwan)Tencent Holdings (China)Samsung Electronics (South Korea)Alibaba Group Holding (China)Meituan B (China)Reliance Industries (India)Infosys (India)China Construction BK H (China)Mediatek Inc (Taiwan)JD.Com HK (China)



Overall, the index is heavily weighted in Chinese firms, at 32.41% of its composition, followed by Taiwanese at 16.09%, and South Korea and India at over 12% each.



In terms of its sector makeup, information technology, financials, and consumer discretionary were dominant.





Pros

Offers an easy-to-track benchmark for global growth investing
Provides a broad survey of performance in developing economies across the world
Focuses on relatively conservative large and mid-cap companies



Cons

Not as diversified as other global indexes
Oriented toward very long-term investment horizons: short- and mid-term returns often lag
Inherently high on the risk scale, given its focus on emerging markets





   MSCI Emerging Markets Index FAQs  

Here are the answers to some commonly asked questions about the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.


  What Is MSCI Emerging Markets Index?  

Like the Dow Jones Industrial Average, the MSCI Emerging Markets Index is a selection of stocks. Each is considered a bellwether in its sector. Collectively, their performance from day to day suggests the overall direction of a market.



In the case of the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, the stocks are selected as representative of the performance of companies in fast-growing developing markets.


  Which Countries Are in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index?  

The countries and the stocks in the index change from time to time. As of the end of 2021, they include Brazil, Chile, China, Colombia, Czech Republic, Egypt, Greece, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Korea, Kuwait, Malaysia, Mexico, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, and the United Arab Emirates.



The index is rebalanced twice a year. At that time, the weighting of any of the 1,400 or so stocks tracked by the index may increase or decrease, or it may be dropped altogether.


  What Makes Up the MSCI World Markets Index?  

The MSCI World Marks Index tracks the performance of large-cap and mid-cap stocks in 23 developed nations in North America, Western Europe, and the Asia-Pacific region.



Less than 12% of the index was comprised of the stocks in emerging market nations, More than half of the index is made up of U.S. companies.


  Is MSCI Owned by Morgan Stanley?  

MSCI stands for the investment research firm Morgan Stanley Capital International, now MSCI Inc., which has been a fully independent, stand-alone public company since 2009. There are more than 200,000 MSCI indexes that are used to track the performance of industries, sectors, and regions.



These indexes are used by institutional investors, stock pickers, hedge fund managers, and the media as bellwethers of the performance of the slice of the economy that each tracks.



The indexes also are used as the basis for ETFs, which invest in the stocks listed in the index, proportionally to their weight in the index. Other ETFs do not mirror an index but use it as a benchmark to measure their own performance.



MSCI does not buy the stocks it indexes. It makes money from licensing the indexes to the financial companies that create the ETFs that mirror them.
What Is Emigration?  

Emigration is the relocation or process of people leaving one country to reside in another. People emigrate for many reasons, include increasing one's chance of employment or improving quality of life. Emigration affects the economies of the countries involved in both positive and negative ways, depending on the current state of the countries' economies.





Key Takeaways

Emigration is the relocation or process of people leaving one country to reside in another.People emigrate for many reasons, including increasing one's chance of employment or improving quality of life.Emigration has an economic impact on the countries involved, including the workforce and consumer spending.The sending country may lose knowledgeable resources, though departing labor may actually alleviate unemployment pressures.


   Understanding Emigration  

When people leave a country, they lower the nation's labor force and consumer spending. If the country they are leaving has an oversaturation of the labor force, this can result in the positive effect of relieving unemployment rates. On the other hand, the countries receiving the emigrants tend to benefit from more available workers, who also contribute to the economy by spending money.



While emigration usually represents people leaving a country, immigration is the process of a country receiving people who left another country. In other words, immigration is the result of emigration for the receiving country. For example, people might say they immigrated to the United States, which is where they now have permanent residence, but they emigrated from Spain. Many countries regulate the number of people that can emigrate or immigrate from one country to another.



In the United States, the number of people who emigrate and eventually become permanent residents are tracked and totaled by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), which is part of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). In Q4 2022, 286,000 noncitizens obtained lawful permanent residency status in the U.S. Approximately half of these entered the United States as new arrivals, with slightly more than half having had their status adjusted within the United States.






In Q4 2022, 42% of immigrants came from India, Mexico, China, Cuba, or the Dominican Republic.


   Fiscal Impact of Emigration  

When people emigrate to a new country, they pay taxes in the new country based on earnings, property owned, and other factors. They may also pay sales tax on purchases when applicable. These people may also qualify for social services provided by that country, such as education for dependent children or universal health care. Each country needs to ensure new tax revenues match the additional expenses for social services provided to the emigrants and their families.



Remittances are funds sent by emigrants to their families or communities in their home countries. These financial inflows can provide a significant source of income for recipients and have a positive impact on the sending country's economy. Remittances can be used for various purposes, including daily expenses, education, healthcare, and investments in local businesses. This increased income can lead to improved living standards and reduced poverty in the sending country.



Some emigrants engage in circular migration where they move back and forth between their home country and host country. This can have different fiscal implications compared to permanent emigration. Circular migrants may contribute to both countries' economies intermittently, and they may have different needs and impacts on social services.


   Effect of Emigration on Job Market and Wages  

When large groups of emigrants enter the job market in a new country, there is an effect on the available number of jobs and the amount of wages one can ask for a particular job. The new country must have enough job openings to support emigration without damaging the chances of the native-born labor force finding employment. Additionally, if an emigrant takes a job for a lower wage than typically offered to the native labor force, it can lower wages for both emigrants and the native population.



The emigration of skilled workers can have a negative fiscal impact on the sending country. This is because the country invests in education and training of these individuals, and when they emigrate, the country loses the potential economic contributions and tax revenues from these skilled workers. This can hinder economic development and productivity growth in the sending country.



In some cases, emigration can alleviate pressure on the labor market in sending countries, leading to reduced unemployment and potentially boosting economic growth. When emigrants leave, there may be less competition for jobs which can lead to increased wages and improved working conditions for those who remain. This can result in increased tax revenues for the government as workers' incomes rise.


   Rules for Emigration to the United States  

The Immigration and Naturalization Act serves as the basis for emigration into the United States and allows for 675,000 permanent immigrants yearly. The country also provides emigration status to a certain number of refugees separate from this number. When choosing emigrants, the United States examines things such as family ties and unique job qualifications and creating diversification within the country. The goal of this Act is to protect the American economy by making positive additions to the workforce and maintaining a healthy job market for American citizens.



The U.S. immigration system emphasizes family unification, allowing U.S. citizens and legal permanent residents to sponsor certain family members for immigration. Immediate relatives of U.S. citizens, including spouses, unmarried minor children, and parents (if the petitioner is at least 21 years old) have unlimited visas available annually. Family preference visas are also offered but are subject to numerical limits.



The United States also offers multiple avenues for immigrants with valuable skills to come to the country, either on a temporary or permanent basis. These visas come with various eligibility criteria and limitations, often tying the worker to the petitioning employer. On the other hand, permanent immigration has an annual limit as well. The process involves labor market testing, certification by the Department of Labor, and filing petitions with USCIS in some cases.





"Brain Drain"

The term "brain drain" is often used in associated with emigration. It's used to refer to the phenomenon of skilled, knowledgeable workers leaving one area, draining that country of its resources.


   Financial Reasons to Emigrate  

Broadly speaking, there are many economic and financial reasons an individual may choose to emigrate. Note that there may be many non-financial reasons someone may emigrate but for the purpose of this section, we'll focus on the financial reasons. Those reasons may include:



Seek Better Economic Opportunities: Many individuals seek emigration to access job markets with higher demand for their skills and expertise. This can lead to increased income potential and career advancement, ultimately improving their financial well-being.
Avoid Poverty and Economic Hardship: In regions with limited economic opportunities and high poverty rates, emigration can offer a lifeline to escape destitution. People often leave in search of basic necessities like food, shelter, and healthcare.
Send Remittances: Emigrants often work abroad to send money (remittances) back to their families in their home countries. These funds can cover essential expenses, such as education, healthcare, and housing, significantly improving the financial situation of their loved ones.
Seek Better Cost of Living: High living costs in their home country, including housing, healthcare, and education, can lead individuals to seek more affordable destinations where their income goes further, allowing for savings or investments.
Gain Access to Credit and Financial Services: Some countries lack developed financial systems, limiting access to credit, savings accounts, and investment opportunities. Emigrants may move to access better financial services and save or invest more effectively.
Pursue Better Education (at Better Costs): Parents may emigrate to countries with lower education costs, enabling their children to access quality education without incurring excessive debt, which can have long-term financial benefits.
Escape from Economic Discrimination: Economic discrimination based on factors like ethnicity, religion, or gender can limit economic prospects in the home country. Emigration offers the opportunity to escape such constraints and pursue financial success on a more equal footing.




What Role Do Education and Skills Play in Emigrants' Economic Impact?
The education and skills of emigrants significantly influence their economic impact. Skilled emigrants are often better positioned to secure high-paying jobs and contribute positively to the host country's economy. However, the sending country may face a resource drain if too many skilled individuals emigrate.




What Is the Economic Significance of Circular Migration?
Circular migration, where individuals move back and forth between home and host countries, can have economic significance. It allows emigrants to maintain ties to their home country while benefiting from economic opportunities abroad. This mobility can impact remittances, investment, and knowledge transfer by continually shifting resources from one country to another.




How Does Emigration Affect the Sending Country's Economy?
Emigration can have a mixed impact on the sending country's economy. While remittances from emigrants can boost household incomes and local businesses, a departure of skilled workers may result in lost economic potential. The overall effect depends on factors such as the skill level of emigrants, the volume of remittances, and the country's ability to replace lost talent.




How Do Economic Factors Like Income Inequality Influence Emigration Trends?
Income inequality can be a driving factor for emigration, particularly among individuals seeking higher incomes and better economic opportunities. Disparities in wealth and income can motivate individuals to leave in pursuit of greater financial security, putting some pressure on governments and legislative bodies to ensure equity on its citizens ability to generate income and wealth.


   The Bottom Line  

Emigration refers to the process of leaving one's home country to settle in another nation. It's often driven by factors such as economic opportunities, political instability, or personal aspirations. It can have diverse economic impacts, including remittance flows, brain drain effects, and contributions to both sending and receiving countries' economies.
What Is Eminent Domain?  

Eminent domain is the power of the government to take private property and put it to public use, following the payment of just compensation. This is a practice that occurs in the United States, and in many different countries under different name. It may not seem fair to the owners of the property, and eminent domain lawsuits, especially when the owner feels they are not justly compensated, are fairly common.





Key Takeaways

Eminent domain is the right of governments like the United States to usurp private property for public use, following fair compensation.Everything from airspace, land, and contract rights to intellectual property is subject to eminent domain if a case can be made for its public use.The legal debate surrounding unfair invoking of eminent domain, such as when property owners are not fairly compensated, is called inverse condemnation.Both an entire property and a partial property can be seized, as well as the potential for a temporary seizure. There have been some instances where a private party has used eminent domain seizures under the guise of public improvements. 


   Understanding Eminent Domain  

Eminent domain is a right granted under the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution. Similar powers are found in most common law nations. Called "expropriation" in Canada, "compulsory acquisition" in Australia, in the U.K., New Zealand, and Ireland, eminent domain is known as "compulsory purchase."



Private property is taken through condemnation proceedings, in which owners can challenge the legality of the seizure and settle the matter of fair market value used for compensation. The most straightforward examples of condemnation involve land and buildings seized to make way for a public project. It may include airspace, water, dirt, timber, and rock appropriated from private land for the construction of roads.



Eminent domain can include leases, stocks, and investment funds. In 2013, municipalities began to consider using eminent domain laws to refinance underwater mortgages by seizing them from investors at their current market value and reselling them at more reasonable rates. Congress passed a law prohibiting the Federal Housing Administration from financing mortgages seized by eminent domain as part of the FY 2015 budget.



Because contract rights, patents, copyrights, and intellectual property are all subject to eminent domain, the federal government could theoretically use eminent domain to seize a social media company such as Meta (formerly Facebook) and turn it into a public utility to protect people's privacy and data.


   Types of Taking  

The government decides what use it has of your property. Each category of use is taken, used, and compensated differently. Unfortunately, property owners find they do not have much say in which manner their property is seized, and are hesitant to enter into lengthy legal battles against the government.


  Complete Taking  

Complete taking, also known as total taking, is when the entire piece of land is seized. Despite the amount of just compensation being the highest market value, many do not feel they are being fairly compensated. When large construction projects or utilities need the entire parcel in order to function, complete taking is usually the resulting type of condemnation.


  Partial Taking  

Partial taking under eminent domain is exactly what it sounds like—a partial piece of the property is taken. This is slightly more complicated than a complete taking, since it is much easier to value a piece as a whole than it is to assign fair value to each individual part. the government realizes that the seizure of one aspect of the property may decrease the value of the remainder, which is why there are two components considered when a property is partially taken. The first is the value of the property that was acquired, and the second is the loss of value to the property remaining, called the remainder.


  Temporary Taking  

The taking of a property for a set period of time is known as temporary taking. Many owners consider this type of eminent domain a form of leasing, and for some, it can be a breath of fresh air. A common example is when a construction project requires easement of the property. The easement is paid out based on the rental value of the land and can provide some owners with a steady stream of income for a piece of property they may not have been able to lease under other circumstances.



If the easement requires denying access to any other part of the property than what is currently being seized, just compensation would pay for all affected sections of the property, not just what is directly required.


  Regulatory Taking  

Regulatory taking can be broken down into two sections, total regulatory taking and partial regulatory taking. A total regulatory taking occurs when a regulation affects a property to such a degree that it cannot be used. A partial regulatory taking occurs when a regulation affects the property as well, but does not cause it to lose all of its value, only a substantial portion.


   Just Compensation  

Just compensation is the amount that you are determined to receive if you are undergoing an instance of eminent domain. Depending on which type of taking you are facing, the government will calculate the value of the property and offer you what they consider just compensation, which is the fair market value of your property.



The fair market value assumes that you as a seller are not forced to sell, and a buyer is willing but is not being forced to buy. This consideration exists to ensure that unseen aspects of the sale process are not considered during just compensation, such as an owner desperate to sell, or a buyer who may overpay because they are desperate to purchase. Some consider this method of determination unfair, as the necessity of eminent domain points to the buyer needing the property more than the seller, or the person having their property seized, needs to sell.



Just compensation is dependent on a few factors including the value of any land improvements, any residue damage to the property due to the seizure, and something called benefits. Benefits are a rare component when compiling just compensation, and are used to offset the total compensation received.


   Eminent Domain Abuses  

The definition of what constitutes a public project has been expanded by the Supreme Court, from highways, trade centers, airport expansions, and other utilities, to anything that makes a city more visually attractive or revitalizes a community. Under this definition of public use, eminent domain began to encompass big business interests. General Motors took private land for a factory in the 1980s to create jobs and boost tax revenues.



Most notoriously, Pfizer seized the homes of a poor neighborhood in New London, Connecticut, in 2000 to build a new research facility. Americans were outraged to learn a city could condemn homes and small businesses to promote private development. While the Supreme Court upheld this ruling in 2005, several states passed new laws to protect property owners from abusive eminent domain takings. Long after the homes were bulldozed, Pfizer abandoned its plans.






Seizing land for private use has led to serious abuses throughout history.


   Inverse Condemnation  

There is also legal debate about the debt of the government to fairly compensate those whose property or assets have been taken or impacted due to eminent domain. Private property owners have sued the government in proceedings called inverse condemnation, in which the government or private business has taken or damaged property but failed to pay compensation. This has been used to obtain damages for pollution and other environmental problems.



For example, electrical utilities can be found liable for economic damages caused by a wildfire they started. In another case, when the Army Corps of Engineers released a torrent from Houston's two reservoirs during Hurricane Harvey, houses were deliberately flooded, leading property owners to demand compensation under inverse condemnation.




What If I Refuse Eminent Domain?
There are some clear guidelines for eminent domain. They are that the property will serve a public purpose, that just compensation is offered, and that the property is acquired. It is fairly easy for the government to assert its fulfillment of constitutional responsibility and therefore, it is usually not possible to refuse eminent domain. The most that most property owners can hope for is a high market valuation, or to engage in a lawsuit.




Why Is Eminent Domain in the Fifth Amendment?
Eminent domain is in the Fifth Amendment to ensure that the U.S. government is able to acquire assets that benefit the public good. An example of this would be if a town needed water, and the only possible way to bring water to that town was through the property of a private landowner. The landowner may not want pipes running through their property, but since it benefits the public, the government will pursue it.




Has Anyone Ever Won an Eminent Domain Case?
Many people have won eminent domain cases in the sense that their fair market value claim was awarded. The claimant, in this case, would be an aggrieved property owner who can sue for a higher value than what the government assessed, although these cases are lengthy and extremely expensive to pursue. Most private property owners find it is easier to just accept the value and move on with their lives. It is nearly impossible to halt an eminent domain case, although it is possible to pursue further compensation.




How Do I Protect My Property From Eminent Domain?
Unfortunately, there is not much you can do to protect your property from eminent domain. It is not always real estate that is seized, and it is not possible to anticipate the future needs of the public or the government. It may seem unfair, but property owners do not have many options to protect their property from seizure by the government.


   The Bottom Line  

Eminent domain is the practice of the federal, state and local government seizing private property for public use, after the private owner has received fair compensation. Both an entire property and a partial property can be taken; property can also be seized temporarily. Lawsuits surrounding whether a property should have been taken and whether the compensation for seized property was sufficient, abound. It is almost impossible to stop an eminent domain case, but it is sometimes possible to negotiate for higher compensation.
What Is Empire Building?  

Empire building is the act of attempting to increase the size and scope of an individual or organization's power and influence.



In the corporate world, this is seen at the intra-company level when managers or executives are more concerned with expanding their business units, their staffing levels, and the dollar value of assets under their control than they are with developing and implementing ways to benefit shareholders.



Empire building can also occur in the larger public arena when corporations take steps to acquire competitors or other firms that might offer downstream or upstream integration or other synergies.



A corporation might attempt to control a larger market share or form a conglomerate to branch into other industries in an attempt to grow the corporation's influence, assets under control, and influence.





Key Takeaways

Empire building is the pursuit to enlarge the size, scope, and influence of an individual or organization's power.Increasing market share, buying power, or deal-making influence are all elements to empire building.Empire building can be considered as a negative for a corporation because management can become fixated on controlling resources and influence than with optimally allocating resources and maximizing profits.Empire building can be done through a variety of strategies including mergers and acquisitions, vertical integration, and strategic alliances.Advantages of empire-building include possible economies of scale for the company, job security for the empire builders, and increased prestige (for both the company and empire builders)


   How Empire Building Works  

Empire building is typically seen as unhealthy for a corporation, as managers will often become more concerned with acquiring greater resource control than with optimally allocating resources.



Corporate controls imposed by a company's board and upper-level management are supposed to prevent empire-building within a corporation's ranks.



On a larger scale, it may lead to acquisitions or other decisions that do not ultimately benefit shareholders, increase the corporation's financial health, or bolster the company's long-term viability.



Economists refer to this potential conflict of interests between management and shareholders as an agency cost.



The failure to screen out empire builders can lead to corporate actions that do not necessarily provide the best growth opportunities for a corporation and its shareholders, such as acquisitions made to boost the control of the company's executives.


   Empire Building Strategies  

Empire building can be done through a variety of strategies. Let's take a look at a few of the main methods.



Mergers and acquisitions. Growth-through-acquisition is, by far, the most commonly used strategy of empire building. There's no easier way to quickly grow the size and scope of your company than simply gobbling up other companies. Of course, this strategy is fraught with risk as "serial acquirer" leadership teams often overpay and/or get into industries that simply don't fit.



Vertical integration. Vertical integration is a growth strategy that involves controlling all parts of the supply chain: suppliers, distributors, and/or retail locations. The strategy is effective for empire building because it allows leadership to expand the company while maintaining efficiency.



Strategic alliances. Forming strategic alliances is another effective way in which empires are built. By creating powerful alliances, a company is able to grow in a consistent and predictable manner. A good example is when defense companies use government contracts to rapidly expand.






In the 1870s, Andrew Carnegie used vertical integration as one of his main strategies to build a massive iron and steel empire.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Empire Building  

From the company's perspective, if done right, empire-building can translate into possible economies of scale, cost-efficiency, and streamlined operations. Vertical integration, in particular, is an effective way to expand the company while still being efficient.



From the perspective of empire-building leadership, empire-building can maximize both job security and promotability. Finally, empire-building can increase prestige for both the company and empire builders.



But as we mentioned earlier, empire-building often leads to a conflict of interest between management and its stakeholders. In other words, management decisions that expand the size and scope of a company very often don't benefit shareholders or strengthen the business's long-term health.





Advantages of Empire Building

Possible economies of scale, cost-efficiency, streamlined operators (for the company)
Maximization of job security and promotability (for the empire builders)
Increased prestige (for both the company and empire builders)



Disadvantages of Empire Building

Conflict of interest between empire builders (management) and stakeholders
Inefficient allocation of company resources





   Example of Empire Building  

For example, if Bob is a middle manager at XYZ Company and begins to hire large amounts of personnel and launch projects that increase his influence over other departments at XYZ Company, Bob could be seen as an intra-company empire builder.



The added expense of additional employee salaries and the spending required to launch the projects may hurt Company XYZ in the name of Bob increasing his own personal influence and profile within the company. This desire creates a principal-agent problem that can ultimately undermine the success of the company.






This term should not be confused with the landmark, the Empire State Building.


   Empire Building FAQs  
  What Is a Family Empire?  

A family empire is a large company or enterprise that is primarily controlled by a single-family. Famous family empires in history include the Waltons (Walmart), the Mars family (Mars chocolate), and the Thomsons (Thomson Reuters).


  What Are the Building Blocks of an Empire?  

Five main building blocks of an empire include strong leadership, a sound financial position, practical strategies, effective resource allocation, and strong risk management protocols.


  How Does Empire Building Relate to the Pyramid of Bureaucracy?  

Generally speaking, a bureaucratic organization is shaped like a pyramid, with the president and/or CEO at the very top. Vice presidents report the president/CEO, managers report the vice presidents, and so on.



The concept is related to empire-building as people often become more concerned with acquiring greater resource control (growing the layers of the pyramid "beneath" them) than with being efficient.
What Is the Empirical Rule?  

The empirical rule, also sometimes called the three-sigma or 68-95-99.7 rule, is a statistical rule which states that for normally distributed data, almost all observed data will fall within three standard deviations (denoted by the Greek letter sigma, or σ) of the mean or average (represented by the Greek letter mu, or µ) of the data.



In particular, the empirical rule predicts that in normal distributions, 68% of observations fall within the first standard deviation (µ ± σ), 95% within the first two standard deviations (µ ± 2σ), and 99.7% within the first three standard deviations (µ ± 3σ) of the mean.





Key Takeaways

The Empirical Rule states that 99.7% of data observed following a normal distribution lies within 3 standard deviations of the mean.Under this rule, 68% of the data falls within one standard deviation, 95% percent within two standard deviations, and 99.7% within three standard deviations from the mean.Three-sigma limits that follow the empirical rule are used to set the upper and lower control limits in statistical quality control charts and in risk analysis.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Understanding the Empirical Rule  

The empirical rule is often used in statistics for forecasting final outcomes. After calculating the standard deviation and before collecting exact data, this rule can be used as a rough estimate of the outcome of the impending data to be collected and analyzed.



This probability distribution can be used as an evaluation technique since gathering the appropriate data may be time-consuming or even impossible in some cases. Such considerations come into play when a firm reviews its quality control measures or evaluates its risk exposure. For instance, the frequently used risk tool value-at-risk (VaR) assumes that the probability of risk events follows a normal distribution.



The empirical rule is also used as a rough way to test a distribution's "normality." If too many data points fall outside the three standard deviation boundaries, this suggests that the distribution is not normal and may be skewed or follow some other distribution.



The empirical rule is also known as the three-sigma rule, as "three-sigma" refers to a statistical distribution of data within three standard deviations from the mean on a normal distribution (bell curve), as indicated by the figure below.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019 


   Examples of the Empirical Rule  

Let's assume a population of animals in a zoo is known to be normally distributed. Each animal lives to be 13.1 years old on average (mean), and the standard deviation of the lifespan is 1.5 years. If someone wants to know the probability that an animal will live longer than 14.6 years, they could use the empirical rule. Knowing the distribution's mean is 13.1 years old, the following age ranges occur for each standard deviation:



One standard deviation (µ ± σ): (13.1 - 1.5) to (13.1 + 1.5), or 11.6 to 14.6Two standard deviations (µ ± 2σ): 13.1 - (2 x 1.5) to 13.1 + (2 x 1.5), or 10.1 to 16.1Three standard deviations (µ ± 3σ): 13.1 - (3 x 1.5) to 13.1 + (3 x 1.5), or, 8.6 to 17.6



The person solving this problem needs to calculate the total probability of the animal living 14.6 years or longer. The empirical rule shows that 68% of the distribution lies within one standard deviation, in this case, from 11.6 to 14.6 years. Thus, the remaining 32% of the distribution lies outside this range. One half lies above 14.6 and the other below 11.6. So, the probability of the animal living for more than 14.6 is 16% (calculated as 32% divided by two).


   Empirical Rule in Investing  

Most market data isn't normally distributed, so the 68-95-99.7 rule doesn't generally apply to investments. However, many analysts use aspects of it—such as standard deviation—to estimate volatility.



You can calculate the standard deviation of your portfolio, an index, or other investments and use it to asses volatility. Calculating a particular investment's standard deviation is straightforward if you have access to a spreadsheet and your chosen investment's prices or returns.



Market analysts express standard deviation in percentage form. For example, the daily standard deviation (annualized) for the S&P 500 (using daily closing prices) from May 2, 2023, to June 2, 2023, is 13.29%.



Using the spreadsheet, you can paste the returns, prices, or values into it, find the percent change from the previous session, and use the standard deviation function:



= STDEV ( 1, 2, 3, 4, ...) or = STDEV ( A1 : A200 )






You'll get more accurate results using more than one month's trading data, such as three or more years. The example below uses the index's daily values over one month and annualizes the standard deviation to limit the table size.



As the table below shows, you paste the data into the spreadsheet and use the formulas to get the standard deviation for the daily prices. To annualize the standard deviation, multiply it by the square root of the number of trading days in one year—of which there are usually 252.












S&P 500 Standard Deviation (Annualized)





A
B
C
D


1
Date
Close
Interday Change
Formula


2
05/02/23
4119.58
-
-


3
05/03/23
4090.75
-0.70%
-


4
05/04/23
4061.22
-0.72%
-


5
05/05/23
4136.25
1.85%
-


6
05/08/23
4138.12
0.05%
-


7
05/09/23
4119.17
-0.46%
-


8
05/10/23
4137.64
0.45%
-


9
05/11/23
4130.62
-0.17%
-


10
05/12/23
4124.08
-0.16%
-


11
05/15/23
4136.28
0.30%
-


12
05/16/23
4109.9
-0.64%
-


13
05/17/23
4158.77
1.19%
-


14
05/18/23
4198.05
0.94%
-


15
05/19/23
4191.98
-0.14%
-


16
05/22/23
4192.63
0.02%
-


17
05/23/23
4145.58
-1.12%
-


18
05/24/23
4115.24
-0.73%
-


19
05/25/23
4151.28
0.88%
-


20
05/26/23
4205.45
1.30%
-


21
05/30/23
4205.52
0.00%
-


22
05/31/23
4179.83
-0.61%
-


23
06/01/23
4221.02
0.99%
-


24
06/02/23
4282.37
1.45%
-


25
-
stdev daily
0.84%
=stdev(B2:B24)


26
-
stdev annualized
13.29%
=sqrt(252)*C25






So the annual volatility based on the data used is 13.29%. This indicates to analysts that the index has a lower risk. The higher the standard deviation, the more risk analysts believe the investment has.



Alternatively, you can find an investment's standard deviation on popular investing websites. For example, Morningstar displays the S&P 500 standard deviation in three, five, and 10-year measurements.




What Is the Empirical Rule?
In statistics, the empirical rule states that 99.7% of data occurs within three standard deviations of the mean within a normal distribution. To this end, 68% of the observed data will occur within one standard deviation, 95% will reside within two standard deviations, and 97.5% will fall within three standard deviations. The empirical rule predicts the probability distribution for a set of outcomes.




How Is the Empirical Rule Used?
The empirical rule is applied to anticipate probable outcomes in a normal distribution. For instance, a statistician would use this to estimate the percentage of cases that fall in each standard deviation. Consider that the standard deviation is 3.1 and the mean equals 10. In this case, the first standard deviation would range between (10+3.2)= 13.2 and (10-3.2)= 6.8. The second deviation would fall between 10 + (2 X 3.2)= 16.4 and 10 - (2 X 3.2)= 3.6, and so forth.




What Are the Benefits of the Empirical Rule?
The empirical rule is beneficial because it serves as a means of forecasting data. This is especially true when it comes to large datasets and those where variables are unknown. In finance specifically, the empirical rule is germane to stock prices, price indices, and log values of forex rates, which all tend to fall across a bell curve or normal distribution.


   The Bottom Line  

Analysts use the empirical rule to see how much data falls within a specified interval away from the data set's mean. Investment analysts use it to estimate the volatility of an investment, portfolio, or fund.
What Is an Employee Buyout (EBO)?  

An employee buyout (EBO) is when an employer offers select employees a voluntary severance package. The package usually includes benefits and pay for a specified period of time. An EBO is often used to reduce costs or avoid or delay layoffs.



An employee buyout (EBO) may also refer to a restructuring strategy in which employees buy a majority stake in their own firm. This type of restructuring is a company takeover by its workers. In either example, EBOs are most often employed when companies are in financial distress.


   Understanding an Employee Buyout (EBO)  

Employees that are offered a severance via an EBO must balance the value of the severance payments with their overall job prospects. There is the potential that if they decline an employee buyout offer from an employer that their job may eventually be eliminated via downsizing with less-generous severance.



If employees are considering buying out their company, the process can be challenging and time-consuming in part because it requires that employees reach an agreement to pool their assets to buy a majority stake in their company from ownership. Below, we explore the pros and cons of these two types of employee buyouts, whether the purchase is initiated by the company or by the employees.





Key Takeaways

An employee buyout (EBO) is when an employer offers select employees a voluntary severance package. A buyout package usually includes benefits and pay for a specified period of time.Employee buyouts are used to reduce employee headcount and therefore, salary costs, the cost of benefits, and any contributions by the company to retirement plans.An employee buyout can also refer to when employees take over the company they work for by buying a majority stake.


   Employee Buyout: Voluntary Severance  

Employee buyouts are used to reduce employee headcount and, thus, salary costs, the cost of benefits, and any contributions by the company to retirement plans. A common formula for severance packages includes a base of four weeks pay plus an additional week for every year of employment at the company. Some employers may tack on extended healthcare coverage, or assistance in finding new employment, or education and training.



EBO offers are typically made to nonessential staff, though older employees who are approaching retirement age are frequently approached if the goal is to consolidate the position or not fill it altogether. However, if a company has a pension plan, management must weigh the savings from the salary cost of employees nearing retirement and the annual pension amount due to be paid each employee. Typically, but not always, the annual pension is less than the employee's current salary.



In evaluating an EBO, employees must consider a number of factors, such as their career prospects and goals. Some of those considerations include:



For near-retirees, would the severance from the buyout bridge the period between termination and the eligibility period for Social Security benefits?
Is the severance pay the same as your current salary? If not, can you live off the amount?
Older employees may find it harder to find a new job. As a result, any offer should provide enough income to cover expenses during the job-hunting period.
Would a buyout payment be able to fund a new education, career, or retraining?
Would a buyout allow you to start your own business? And would the severance amount cover the business startup costs?
How will accrued vacation time or other personal leave be accounted for, meaning do you get paid for those days?
Will the company continue to contribute to the retirement plan? If so, for how long?
How will the severance be paid out? Lump sums are worth more than payments over time, especially if there's a risk that the employer could become insolvent.



Receiving a buyout from a company can be exciting if the employee was looking to begin a new chapter in life or looking for a career change. However, the money received from a buyout is likely to last for only a short period of time.



Also, employees that currently receive bonuses for performance would not get paid that extra income under a buyout. And given the cost of living expenses, the money may evaporate quickly. As a result, a decision would need to be made by the employee at some point whether to work at another company, start a business, or retire.






Since the pay from a buyout only lasts a short period, employees must decide as to the next step—whether to work at another company, start a business, or retire.


   Employee Buyout: Corporate Restructuring  

Employee buyouts of companies are a form of buyout that's often done as an alternative to a leveraged buyout. A leveraged buyout (LBO) is when a significant amount of borrowed funds or leverage is used to acquire another company.



Companies being sold might be financially healthy, though they're typically suffering from financial distress if a buyout is being considered. Also, employees might be unhappy with how their company is managed or might not like the direction the company is heading. Executing such a buyout is a significant financial risk, but the rewards can be substantial. For small businesses, an employee buyout often focuses on the sale of the company's assets, while for larger firms, the buyout might be for a subsidiary or division of the company.



The official way an employee buyout occurs is through an employee stock ownership plan (ESOP). An ESOP is a type of trust fund that can be created to allow employees to buy stock or ownership in the company over time to facilitate succession planning. The buyout is complete when the ESOP owns 51% or more of the company's common shares. Employee buyouts are not unheard of; employees at Polaroid and United Airlines both utilized ESOPs to buy their companies out of bankruptcy.
What Is the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA)?  

The Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) is a federal law that protects the retirement assets of American workers. The law, which was enacted in 1974, implemented rules that qualified plans must follow to ensure that plan fiduciaries do not misuse plan assets. It also covers certain non-retirement accounts, such as employee health plans.



Under the law, plans must regularly inform participants about their features and funding. ERISA is enforced by the Employee Benefits Security Administration (EBSA), a unit of the Department of Labor (DOL).





Key Takeaways

ERISA is a federal law that implements standards for certain employer-sponsored retirement plans and regulations for plan fiduciaries.The law has gone through a series of changes since it was first enacted in 1974.ERISA prohibits fiduciaries from misusing funds and also sets minimum standards for participation, vesting, benefit accrual, and funding of retirement plans.It also grants retirement plan participants the right to sue for benefits and breaches of fiduciary duty.Regulations and standards established by ERISA also extend to employer-sponsored healthcare plans.


   Understanding the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA)  

ERISA was established by the federal government in 1974 and holds fiduciaries responsible for their actions as they relate to the maintenance of certain employer-sponsored retirement and health plans.



Plans that fall under its mandate include defined-benefit plans and defined-contribution plans, such as 401(k) plans, 403(b) plans, employee stock ownership plans (ESOPs), and profit-sharing plans. ERISA also covers certain private-sector health plans, including health maintenance organization (HMO) plans, flexible spending accounts (FSAs), disability insurance, and life insurance.



Under ERISA, a fiduciary is anyone who exercises discretionary authority or control over a plan’s management or assets, including those who provide investment advice to the plan. Fiduciaries who do not follow the principles of conduct may be held responsible for restoring losses to the plan. ERISA also addresses fiduciary provisions and bans the misuse of assets through these provisions.



The law also sets minimum standards for participation, vesting, benefit accrual, and funding. The law defines how long a person may be required to work before they're eligible to participate in a plan, accumulate benefits, and have a non-forfeitable right to those benefits. It also establishes detailed funding rules that require retirement plan sponsors to provide adequate funding for the plan.



In addition to keeping participants informed of their rights, ERISA also grants participants the right to sue for benefits and breaches of fiduciary duty. To ensure that participants do not lose their retirement contributions if a defined-benefit pension plan is terminated, ERISA guarantees payment of certain benefits through a federally chartered corporation known as the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC).






Not every employer-sponsored retirement plan is subject to the terms of ERISA. ERISA does not cover plans set up and maintained by government entities and churches. Plans set up by companies outside the United States for nonresident employees are not covered by ERISA, either.


   ERISA and Small Businesses  

ERISA rules can often be complicated. As such, they may deter some small business owners from setting up retirement accounts for their employees.



There are alternatives that allow these companies to sidestep some of the confusing regulations. For example, small businesses with 100 or fewer employees can use SIMPLE IRAs. This type of tax-deferred retirement savings plan is covered by ERISA and doesn’t have the reporting and administrative burden that qualified retirement plans such as 401(k)s do. SIMPLE IRAs are easier to set up, too.



Employers must follow ERISA rules that dictate which employees are eligible and how a company handles employee contributions, and they are required to clearly spell out details of the plan's features within a summary plan description.


   ERISA and Healthcare  

ERISA provides protections to workers who participate in various healthcare plans, including mandatory plans, plans that receive employer contributions, and plans that outline how funds are to be administered. Any plans that don't come with these mandates are not covered by the law.



Under the legislation, providers must inform participants of any and all details of their plans, including:



Coverage eligibility
Benefits
Full disclosure about any associated costs, such as premiums, deductibles, and copays
Information about networks and how to make claims



The law was amended following the passing of the Affordable Care Act (ACA), which mandated that employers with 50 or more workers offer healthcare coverage, put a cap on out-of-pocket expenses and eliminated the denial of coverage because of preexisting conditions. Some people are also eligible to remain under their parents' plan until the age of 26.


   ERISA Regulation and Standards  

As noted above, ERISA is a federal law that is regulated by a division of the DOL known as the Employee Benefits Security Administration (EBSA). This agency provides assistance and education to individual workers, corporations, and plan managers about retirement and healthcare plans.



To ensure compliance with ERISA, plans are required to provide participants with updates and statements. Plan administrators must submit statements to participants for the first quarter during the second quarter, for the second quarter in the third quarter, and so on. Certain notices and forms must also be sent to participants accordingly.



Plans must also make sure they follow plan document terms, provide regular fee disclosures every 12 months, update participants of any changes in the plan in a timely fashion, and make deposits and deferrals on time.



Plan administrators may choose to manage the paperwork on their own. But if it proves to be cumbersome, they may hire a third party to do the work for them. Doing so, however, doesn't absolve the administrator from its fiduciary responsibility to its participants.






Retirement accounts that qualify under ERISA are generally protected from creditors, bankruptcy proceedings, and civil lawsuits. If your employer declares bankruptcy, your retirement savings are not at risk and your creditors cannot make a claim against funds held in your retirement account if you owe them money.


   History of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA)  

Over the years, various legislation had been passed concerning the labor and tax aspects of employee pension plans. The culmination of this was ERISA: Its Title I provisions were enacted to address public concern that funds of private pension plans were being mismanaged and abused.



For instance, more than 4,000 workers lost some or all of their pension plan benefits when Studebaker closed its Indiana factory in 1963. These benefits were shuttered because the plan was underfunded. The Teamsters' Central States Pension Fund brought the issue of fiduciary malfeasance related to retirement accounts into the public eye in the 1960s and 70s. The fund had a history of questionable loans to Las Vegas casinos and real estate developments.



These are just two examples that show the irregularities that ERISA proposed to address when it was first enacted. The U.S. House of Representatives passed the law in February 1974 and it was sent to the Senate, where it was approved the following month. ERISA was signed into law by President Gerald Ford on Sept. 2, 1974.



The law increased the responsibility of EBSA and has gone through several changes since it was first enacted. For instance, lawmakers approved amendments to reduce the age limit required by employers for retirement plan participation, as well as expanding the total time a worker is allowed to be away from work before they lose out on their plan's vesting period.



Healthcare legislation also led to changes in ERISA. For example, the COBRA program of 1985 ensured the continuation of health insurance coverage after an individual's employment situation changes.




What Is the Main Purpose of ERISA?
The main purpose of ERISA is to protect the interests of workers who participate in employee benefit plans, including certain retirement and healthcare plans. Protections extend to retirees as well as plan beneficiaries. ERISA regulates plan administrators and sponsors to ensure they provide plan information to their participants and remain compliant with their fiduciary duties.




What Does ERISA Cover?
Plans that are covered under ERISA include employer-sponsored retirement plans, such as 401(k)s, pensions, deferred compensation plans, and profit-sharing plans. ERISA also covers certain non-retirement plans like HMOs, FSAs, disability insurance, and life insurance.




Who Is Eligible for ERISA?
ERISA applies to anyone who works for a partnership, limited liability company, S-corporation, C-corporation, nonprofit organization, and even businesses with only one employee. Churches and religious organizations aren't typically covered, and plans that operate outside the United States primarily for the benefit of nonresident aliens aren't covered.




What Does ERISA Have to Do With Health Insurance?
The majority of health insurance plans that are offered by employers are covered under ERISA. Plans that fall in this category include mandatory plans, plans that receive employer contributions, and plans that outline how funds are to be administered.




Is an Employer a Fiduciary Under ERISA?
Anyone who has discretionary authority or control of certain employer-sponsored retirement or healthcare plans, or anyone who provides investment advice on the direction of these assets, is considered a fiduciary. This includes trustees, plan administrators, and investment committees.




What Are ERISA Violations?
ERISA violations occur when a fiduciary doesn't live up to their responsibility. For instance, a plan administrator who doesn't provide full disclosure about fees and plan benefits commits a violation. Someone who fails to send updated information about plans to participants, including statements, disclosures, and notices, is also guilty of violating the law.
What Is an Employee Stock Option (ESO)?  

The term employee stock option (ESO) refers to a type of equity compensation granted by companies to their employees and executives. Rather than granting shares of stock directly, the company gives derivative options on the stock instead. These options come in the form of regular call options and give the employee the right to buy the company's stock at a specified price for a finite period of time. Terms of ESOs will be fully spelled out for an employee in an employee stock options agreement.



In general, the greatest benefits of a stock option are realized if a company's stock rises above the exercise price. Typically, ESOs are issued by the company and cannot be sold, unlike standard listed or exchange-traded options. When a stock’s price rises above the call option exercise price, call options are exercised and the holder obtains the company’s stock at a discount. The holder may choose to immediately sell the stock in the open market for a profit or hold onto the stock over time.





Key Takeaways

Employee stock options are offered by companies to their employees as equity compensation plans.These grants come in the form of regular call options and give an employee the right to buy the company’s stock at a specified price for a finite period of time.ESOs can have vesting schedules that limit the ability to exercise.ESOs are taxed at exercise and stockholders will be taxed if they sell their shares in the open market.They can have significant time value even if they have zero or little intrinsic value. 












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   Understanding Employee Stock Options (ESOs)  

Corporate benefits for some or all employees may include equity compensation plans. These plans are known for providing financial compensation in the form of stock equity. ESOs are just one type of equity compensation a company may offer. Other types of equity compensation may include:



Restricted Stock Grants: these give employees the right to acquire or receive shares once certain criteria are attained, like working for a defined number of years or meeting performance targets.
Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs): SARs provide the right to the increase in the value of a designated number of shares; such an increase in value is payable in cash or company stock.
Phantom Stock: this pays a future cash bonus equal to the value of a defined number of shares; no legal transfer of share ownership usually takes place, although the phantom stock may be convertible to actual shares if defined trigger events occur.
Employee Stock Purchase Plans: these plans give employees the right to purchase company shares, usually at a discount.



In broad terms, the commonality between all these equity compensation plans is that they give employees and stakeholders an equity incentive to build the company and share in its growth and success.



For employees, the key benefits of any type of equity compensation plan are:



An opportunity to share directly in the company’s success through stock holdingsPride of ownership; employees may feel motivated to be fully productive because they own a stake in the companyProvides a tangible representation of how much their contribution is worth to the employerDepending on the plan, it may offer the potential for tax savings upon sale or disposal of the shares



The benefits of an equity compensation plan to employers are:



It is a key tool to recruit the best and the brightest in an increasingly integrated global economy where there is worldwide competition for top talentBoosts employee job satisfaction and financial wellbeing by providing lucrative financial incentivesIncentivizes employees to help the company grow and succeed because they can share in its successMay be used as a potential exit strategy for owners, in some instances



There are two main types of ESO:



Incentive stock options (ISOs), also known as statutory or qualified options, are generally only offered to key employees and top management. They receive preferential tax treatment in many cases, as the IRS treats gains on such options as long-term capital gains.
Non-qualified stock options (NSOs) can be granted to employees at all levels of a company, as well as to board members and consultants. Also known as non-statutory stock options, profits on these are considered ordinary income and are taxed as such.






Stock options are a benefit often associated with startup companies, which may issue them in order to reward early employees when and if the company goes public. They are awarded by some fast-growing companies as an incentive for employees to work towards growing the value of the company's shares. Stock options can also serve as an incentive for employees to stay with the company. The options are canceled if the employee leaves the company before they vest. ESOs do not include any dividend or voting rights.


   Important Concepts  

There are two key parties in the ESO, the grantee (employee) and grantor (employer). The grantee—also known as the optionee—can be an executive or an employee, while the grantor is the company that employs the grantee. The grantee is given equity compensation in the form of ESOs, usually with certain restrictions, one of the most important of which is the vesting period.



The vesting period is the length of time that an employee must wait in order to be able to exercise their ESOs. Why does the employee need to wait? Because it gives the employee an incentive to perform well and stay with the company. Vesting follows a pre-determined schedule that is set up by the company at the time of the option grant.


  Vesting  

ESOs are considered vested when the employee is allowed to exercise the options and purchase the company’s stock. Note that the stock may not be fully vested when purchased with an option in certain cases, despite exercising the stock options, as the company may not want to run the risk of employees making a quick gain (by exercising their options and immediately selling their shares) and subsequently leaving the company. 



If you have received an options grant, you must carefully go through your company's stock options plan, as well as the options agreement, to determine the rights available and restrictions applied to employees. The stock options plan is drafted by the company’s board of directors and contains details of the grantee’s rights. The options agreement will provide the key details of your option grant such as the vesting schedule, how the ESOs will vest, shares represented by the grant, and the strike price.



If you are a key employee or executive, it may be possible to negotiate certain aspects of the options agreement, such as a vesting schedule where the shares vest faster, or a lower exercise price. It may also be worthwhile to discuss the options agreement with your financial planner or wealth manager before you sign on the dotted line.



ESOs typically vest in chunks over time at predetermined dates, as set out in the vesting schedule. For example, you may be granted the right to buy 1,000 shares, with the options vesting 25% per year over four years with a term of 10 years. So 25% of the ESOs, conferring the right to buy 250 shares would vest in one year from the option grant date, another 25% would vest two years from the grant date, and so on.



If you don’t exercise your 25% vested ESOs after year one, you would have a cumulative increase in exercisable options. Thus, after year two, you would now have 50% vested ESOs. If you do not exercise any of ESOs options in the first four years, you would have 100% of the ESOs vested after that period, which you can then exercise in full or in part. As mentioned earlier, we had assumed that the ESOs have a term of 10 years. This means that after 10 years, you would no longer have the right to buy shares. Therefore, the ESOs must be exercised before the 10-year period (counting from the date of the option grant) is up.


  Receiving Stock  

Continuing with the above example, let’s say you exercise 25% of the ESOs when they vest after one year. This means you would get 250 shares of the company’s stock at the strike price. It should be emphasized that the record price for the shares is the exercise price or strike price specified in the options agreement, regardless of the actual market price of the stock.


  Reload Option  

In some ESO agreements, a company may offer a reload option. A reload option is a nice provision to take advantage of. With a reload option, an employee can be granted more ESOs when they exercise currently available ESOs.


   ESOs and Taxation  

We now arrive at the ESO spread. As will be seen later, this triggers a tax event whereby ordinary income tax is applied to the spread.



The following points need to be borne in mind with regard to ESO taxation:



The option grant itself is not a taxable event. The grantee or optionee is not faced with an immediate tax liability when the options are granted by the company. Note that usually (but not always), the exercise price of the ESOs is set at the market price of the company’s stock on the day of the option grant.
Taxation begins at the time of exercise. The spread (between the exercise price and the market price) is also known as the bargain element in tax parlance, and is taxed at ordinary income tax rates because the IRS considers it as part of the employee’s compensation.
The sale of the acquired stock triggers another taxable event. If the employee sells the acquired shares for less than or up to one year after exercise, the transaction would be treated as a short-term capital gain and would be taxed at ordinary income tax rates. If the acquired shares are sold more than one year after exercise, it would qualify for the lower capital gains tax rate.



Let’s demonstrate this with an example. Let’s say you have ESOs with an exercise price of $25, and with the market price of the stock at $55, wish to exercise 25% of the 1,000 shares granted to you as per your ESOs.



The record price would be $6,250 for the shares ($25 x 250 shares). Since the market value of the shares is $13,750, if you promptly sell the acquired shares, you would net pre-tax earnings of $7,500. This spread is taxed as ordinary income in your hands in the year of exercise, even if you do not sell the shares. This feature can create a large tax liability if you continue to hold the stock and it plummets in value due to the exercise.



Let’s recap an important point—why are you taxed at the time of ESO exercise? The ability to buy shares at a significant discount to the current market price (a bargain price, in other words) is viewed by the IRS as part of the total compensation package provided to you by your employer, and is therefore taxed at your income tax rate. Thus, even if you do not sell the shares acquired pursuant to your ESO exercise, you trigger a tax liability at the time of exercise.












Image by Sabrina Jiang Â© Investopedia 2020


   Intrinsic Value vs. Time Value for ESOs  

The value of an option consists of intrinsic value and time value (extrinsic value). Time value depends on the amount of time remaining until expiration (the date when the ESOs expire) and several other variables. Given that most ESOs have a stated expiration date of up to 10 years from the date of option grant, their time value can be quite significant. While time value can be easily calculated for exchange-traded options, it is more challenging to calculate time value for non-traded options like ESOs, since a market price is not available for them.



To calculate the time value for your ESOs, you would have to use a theoretical pricing model like the well-known Black-Scholes option pricing model to compute the fair value of your ESOs. You will need to plug inputs such as the exercise price, time remaining, stock price, risk-free interest rate, and volatility into the Model in order to get an estimate of the fair value of the ESO. From there, it is a simple exercise to calculate time value, as can be seen below. Remember that intrinsic value—which can never be negative—is zero when an option is “at the money” (ATM) or “out of the money” (OTM); for these options, their entire value therefore consists only of time value.



The exercise of an ESO will capture intrinsic value but usually gives up time value (assuming there is any left), resulting in a potentially large hidden opportunity cost. Assume that the calculated fair value of your ESOs is $40, as shown below. Subtracting intrinsic value of $30 gives your ESOs a time value of $10. If you exercise your ESOs in this situation, you would be giving up time value of $10 per share, or a total of $2,500 based on 250 shares.












Image by Sabrina Jiang Â© Investopedia 2020



The value of your ESOs is not static, but will fluctuate over time based on movements in key inputs such as the price of the underlying stock, time to expiration, and above all, volatility. Consider a situation where your ESOs are out of the money (i.e., the market price of the stock is now below the ESOs exercise price).












Image by Sabrina Jiang Â© Investopedia 2020



It would be illogical to exercise your ESOs in this scenario for two reasons. Firstly, it is cheaper to buy the stock in the open market at $20, compared with the exercise price of $25. Secondly, by exercising your ESOs, you would be relinquishing $15 of time value per share. If you think the stock has bottomed out and wish to acquire it, it would be much more preferable to simply buy it at $25 and retain your ESOs, giving you larger upside potential (with some additional risk, since you now own the shares as well).


   ESOs vs. Listed Options  

The biggest and most obvious difference between ESOs and listed options is that ESOs are not traded on an exchange, and hence do not have the many benefits of exchange-traded options.


  The Value of Your ESO Is Not Easy to Ascertain  

Exchange-traded options, especially on the biggest stock, have a great deal of liquidity and trade frequently, so it is easy to estimate the value of an options portfolio. Not so with your ESOs, whose value is not as easy to ascertain, because there is no market price reference point. Many ESOs are granted with a term of 10 or more years, but there are virtually no listed options that trade for that length of time. LEAPs (long-term equity anticipation securities) are among the longest-dated options available, but even they only go three years out, which would only help if your ESOs have three years or less to expiration.



Option pricing models are therefore crucial for you to know the value of your ESOs. Your employer is required—on the options grant date—to specify a theoretical price of your ESOs in your options agreement. Be sure to request this information from your company, and also find out how the value of your ESOs has been determined.



Option prices can vary widely, depending on the assumptions made in the input variables. For example, your employer may make certain assumptions about the expected length of employment and estimated holding period before exercise, which could shorten the time to expiration. With listed options, on the other hand, the time to expiration is specified and cannot be arbitrarily changed. Assumptions about volatility can also have a significant impact on option prices. If your company assumes lower than normal levels of volatility, your ESOs would be priced lower. It may be a good idea to get several estimates from other models to compare them with your company’s valuation of your ESOs.


  Specifications Are Not Standardized  

Listed options have standardized contract terms with regard to the number of shares underlying an options contract, expiration date, etc. This uniformity makes it easy to trade options on any optionable stock, whether it is Apple or Google or Qualcomm. If you trade a call option contract, for instance, you have the right to buy 199 shares of the underlying stock at the specified strike price until expiration.



Similarly, a put option contract gives you the right to sell 100 shares of the underlying stock until expiration. While ESOs do have similar rights to listed options, the right to buy shares is not standardized and is spelled out in the options agreement.


  No Automatic Exercise  

For all listed options in the U.S., the last day of trading is the third Friday of the calendar month of the option contract. If the third Friday happens to fall on an exchange holiday, the expiration date moves up by a day to that Thursday. At the close of trading on the third Friday, the options associated with that month’s contract stop trading and are automatically exercised if they are more than $0.01 (1 cent) or more in the money. Thus, if you owned one call option contract and at expiration, the market price of the underlying stock was higher than the strike price by one cent or more, you would own 100 shares through the automatic exercise feature.



Likewise, if you owned a put option and at expiration, the market price of the underlying stock was lower than the strike price by one cent or more, you would be short 100 shares through the automatic exercise feature. Note that despite the term "automatic exercise," you still have control over the eventual outcome, by providing alternate instructions to your broker that take precedence over any automatic exercise procedures, or by closing out the position prior to expiration. With ESOs, the exact details about when they expire may differ from one company to the next. Also, as there is no automatic exercise feature with ESOs, you have to notify your employer if you wish to exercise your options.


  Strike Prices  

Listed options have standardized strike prices (exercise prices), coming in increments such as $1, $2.50, $5, or $10, depending on the price of the underlying security (higher-priced stocks have wider increments). With ESOs, since the strike price is typically the stock's closing price on a particular day, there are no standardized strike prices.



In the mid-2000s, an ESO backdating scandal in the U.S. resulted in the resignations of many executives at top firms. This practice involved granting an option at a previous date instead of the current date, thus setting the strike price at a lower price than the market price on the grant date and giving an instant gain to the option holder. ESO backdating has become much more difficult since the introduction of Sarbanes-Oxley as companies are now required to report option grants to the SEC within two business days.


  Vesting and Acquired Stock Restrictions  

Vesting gives rise to control issues that are not present in listed options. ESOs may require the employee to attain a level of seniority or meet certain performance targets before they vest. If the vesting criteria are not crystal clear, it may create a murky legal situation, especially if relations sour between the employee and employer. As well, with listed options, once you exercise your calls and obtain the stock you can dispose of it as soon as you wish without any restrictions. However, with acquired stock through an exercise of ESOs, there may be restrictions that prevent you from selling the stock.



Even if your ESOs have vested and you can exercise them, the acquired stock may not be vested. This can pose a dilemma, since you may have already paid tax on the ESO Spread (as discussed earlier) and now hold a stock that you cannot sell (or that is declining). 


  Counterparty Risk  

As scores of employees discovered in the aftermath of the 1990s dot-com bust when numerous technology companies went bankrupt, counterparty risk is a valid issue that is hardly ever considered by those who receive ESOs. With listed options in the U.S, the Options Clearing Corporation serves as the clearinghouse for options contracts and guarantees their performance.



Thus, there is zero risk that the counterparty to your options trade will be unable to fulfill the obligations imposed by the options contract. But as the counterparty to your ESOs is your company, with no intermediary in between, it would be prudent to monitor its financial situation to ensure that you are not left holding valueless unexercised options, or even worse, worthless acquired stock.


  Concentration Risk  

You can assemble a diversified options portfolio using listed options but with ESOs, you have concentration risk, since all your options have the same underlying stock. In addition to your ESOs, if you also have a significant amount of company stock in your employee stock ownership plan (ESOP), you may unwittingly have too much exposure to your company, a concentration risk that has been highlighted by FINRA.


   Valuation and Pricing Issues  

The main determinants of an option's value are volatility, time to expiration, the risk-free rate of interest, strike price, and the underlying stock’s price. Understanding the interplay of these variables–especially volatility and time to expiration–is crucial for making informed decisions about the value of your ESOs.



In the following example, we assume an ESO grants the right (when vested) to buy 1,000 shares of the company at a strike price of $50, which is the stock's closing price on the day of the option grant (making this an at-the-money option upon grant). The first table below uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model to isolate the impact of time decay while keeping volatility constant, while the second illustrates the impact of higher volatility on option prices.



As can be seen, the greater the time to expiration, the more the option is worth. Since we assume this is an at-the-money option, its entire value consists of time value. The first table demonstrates two fundamental options pricing principles:



Time value is a very important component of options pricing. If you are awarded at-the-money ESOs with a term of 10 years, their intrinsic value is zero, but they have a substantial amount of time value, $23.08 per option in this case, or over $23,000 for ESOs that give you the right to buy 1,000 shares.Option time decay is not linear in nature. The value of options declines as the expiration date approaches, a phenomenon known as time decay, but this time decay is not linear in nature and accelerates close to option expiry. An option that is far out-of-the-money will decay faster than an option that is at the money because the probability of the former being profitable is much lower than that of the latter.












Image by Sabrina Jiang Â© Investopedia 2020



The table below shows option prices based on the same assumptions, except that volatility is assumed to be 60% rather than 30%. This increase in volatility has a significant effect on option prices. For example, with 10 years remaining to expiration, the price of the ESO increases 53% to $35.34, while with two years remaining, the price increases 80% to $17.45. Further on shows option prices in graphical form for the same time remaining to expiration, at 30% and 60% volatility levels.



Similar results are obtained by changing the variables to levels that prevail at present. With volatility at 10% and the risk-free interest rate at 2%, the ESOs would be priced at $11.36, $7.04, $5.01, and $3.86 with time to expiration at 10, five, three, and two years respectively.












Image by Sabrina Jiang Â© Investopedia 2020



The key takeaway from this section is that merely because your ESOs have no intrinsic value, do not make the naïve assumption that they are worthless. Because of their long time to expiration compared to listed options, ESOs have a significant amount of time value that should not be frittered away through early exercise.












Image by Sabrina Jiang Â© Investopedia 2020


   Risk and Reward Associated With Owning ESOs  

As discussed in the preceding section, your ESOs can have significant time value even if they have zero or little intrinsic value. In this section, we use the common 10-year grant term to expiration to demonstrate the risk and reward associated with owning ESOs.



When you receive the ESOs at the time of grant, you typically have no intrinsic value because the ESO strike price or exercise price is equal to the stock’s closing price on that day. As your exercise price and the stock price are the same, this is an at-the-money option. Once the stock begins to rise, the option has intrinsic value, which is intuitive to understand and easy to compute. But a common mistake is not realizing the significance of time value, even on the grant day, and the opportunity cost of premature or early exercise.



In fact, your ESOs have the highest time value at grant (assuming that volatility does not spike soon after you acquire the options). With such a large time value component—as demonstrated above—you actually have value that is at risk.



Assuming you hold ESOs to buy 1,000 shares at an exercise price of $50 (with volatility at 60% and 10 years to expiration), the potential loss of time value is quite steep. If the shares are unchanged at $50 in 10 years time, you would lose $35,000 in time value and would be left with nothing to show for your ESOs.



This loss of time value should be factored in when computing your eventual return. Let’s say the stock rises to $110 by expiration in 10 years time, giving you an ESO spread—akin to intrinsic value—of $60 per share, or $60,000 in total. However, this should be offset by the $35,000 loss in time value by holding the ESOs to expiration, leaving a net pre-tax "gain" of just $25,000. Unfortunately, this loss of time value is not tax-deductible, which means that the ordinary income tax rate (assumed at 40%) would be applied to $60,000 (and not $25,000). Taking out $24,000 for compensation tax paid at exercise to your employer would leave you with $36,000 in after-tax income, but if you deduct the $35,000 lost in time value, you would be left with just $1,000 in hand.


   Holding ESOs Until Expiration  

Before we look at some of the issues surrounding early exercise—not holding ESOs until expiration—let's evaluate the outcome of holding ESOs until expiration in light of time value and tax costs. Below shows the after-tax, net of time value gains and losses at expiration. At a price of $120 upon expiration, actual gains (after subtracting time value) are just $7,000. This is calculated as a spread of $70 per share or $70,000 in total, less compensation tax of $28,000, leaving you with $42,000 from which you subtract $35,000 for time value lost, for a net gain of $7,000.



Note that when you exercise the ESOs, you would have to pay the exercise price plus tax even if you do not sell the stock (recall that exercise of ESOs is a tax event), which in this case equates to $50,000 plus $28,000, for a total of $78,000. If you immediately sell the stock at the prevailing price of $120, you receive proceeds of $120,000, from which you would have to subtract $78,000. The "gain" of $42,000 should be offset by the $35,000 decline in time value, leaving you with $7,000.












Image by Sabrina Jiang Â© Investopedia 2020 


   Early or Premature Exercise  

As a way to reduce risk and lock in gains, early or premature exercise of ESOs must be carefully considered, since there is a large potential tax hit and big opportunity cost in the form of forfeited time value. In this section, we discuss the process of early exercise and explain financial objectives and risks.



When an ESO is granted, it has a hypothetical value that—because it is an at-the-money option—is pure time value. This time value decays at a rate known as theta, which is a square root function of the time remaining.



Assume you hold ESOs that are worth $35,000 upon grant, as discussed in the earlier sections. You believe in the long-term prospects of your company and plan to hold your ESOs until expiration. Below shows the value composition—intrinsic value plus time value—for ITM, ATM, and OTM options. 



Value Composition for In-, Out-, and At-the-Money ESO Option With Strike of $50 (Prices in $ Thousands)












Image by Sabrina Jiang Â© Investopedia 2020



Even if you begin to gain intrinsic value as the price of the underlying stock rises, you will be shedding time value along the way (although not proportionately). For example, for an in-the-money ESO with a $50 exercise price and a stock price of $75, there will be less time value and more intrinsic value, for more value overall.



The out-of-the-money options (bottom set of bars) show only pure time value of $17,500, while the at-the-money options have time value of $35,000. The further out of the money that an option is, the less time value it has, because the odds of it becoming profitable are increasingly slim. As an option gets more in the money and acquires more intrinsic value, this forms a greater proportion of the total option value. In fact, for a deeply in-the-money option, time value is an insignificant component of its value, compared with intrinsic value. When intrinsic value becomes value at risk, many option holders look to lock in all or part of this gain, but in doing so, they not only give up time value but also incur a hefty tax bill.


  Tax Liabilities for ESOs  

We cannot emphasize this point enough—the biggest downsides of premature exercise are the big tax event it induces, and the loss of time value. You are taxed at ordinary income tax rates on the ESO spread or intrinsic value gain, at rates as high as 40%. What’s more, it is all due in the same tax year and paid upon exercise, with another likely tax hit at the sale or disposition of the acquired stock. Even if you have capital losses elsewhere in your portfolio, you can only apply $3,000 per year of these losses against your compensation gains to offset the tax liability.



After you have acquired stock that presumably has appreciated in value, you are faced with the choice of liquidating the stock or holding it. If you sell immediately upon exercise, you have locked in your compensation "gains" (the difference between the exercise price and stock market price).



But if you hold the stock, and then sell it later on after it appreciates, you may have more taxes to pay. Remember that the stock price on the day you exercised your ESOs is now your "basis price." If you sell the stock less than a year after exercise, you will have to pay short-term capital gains tax. To get the lower, long-term capital gains rate, you would have to hold the shares for more than a year. You thus end up paying two taxes—compensation and capital gains.



Many ESO holders may also find themselves in the unfortunate position of holding on to shares that reverse their initial gains after exercise, as the following example demonstrates. Let’s say you have ESOs that give you the right to buy 1,000 shares at $50, and the stock is trading at $75 with five more years to expiration. As you are worried about the market outlook or the company’s prospects, you exercise your ESOs to lock in the spread of $25.



You now decide to sell one-half of your holdings (of 1,000 shares) and keep the other half for potential future gains. Here’s how the math stacks up:



Exercised at $75 and paid compensation tax on the full spread of $25 x 1,000 shares @ 40% = $10,000Sold 500 shares at $75 for a gain of $12,500Your after-tax gains at this point: $12,500 – $10,000 = $2,500You are now holding 500 shares with a basis price of $75, with $12,500 in unrealized gains (but already tax paid for)Let’s assume the stock now declines to $50 before year-endYour holding of 500 shares has now lost $25 per share or $12,500, since you acquired the shares through exercise (and already paid tax at $75)If you now sell these 500 shares at $50, you can only apply $3,000 of these losses in the same tax year, with the rest to be applied in future years with the same limit



To summarize:



You paid $10,000 in compensation tax at exerciseLocked in $2,500 in after-tax gains on 500 sharesBroke even on 500 shares, but have losses of $12,500 that you can write off per year by $3,000



Note that this does not count the time value lost from early exercise, which could be quite significant with five years left for expiration. Having sold your holdings, you also no longer have the potential to gain from an upward move in the stock. That said, while it seldom makes sense to exercise listed options early, the non-tradable nature and other limitations of ESOs may make their early exercise necessary in the following situations:



Need for Cashflow: Oftentimes, the need for immediate cashflow may offset the opportunity cost of time value lost and justify the tax impactPortfolio Diversification: As mentioned earlier, an overly concentrated position in the company’s stock would necessitate early exercise and liquidation in order to achieve portfolio diversificationStock or Market Outlook: Rather than see all gains dissipate and turn into losses on account of a deteriorating outlook for the stock or equity market in general, it may be preferable to lock in gains through early exerciseDelivery for a Hedging Strategy: Writing calls to gain premium income may require the delivery of stock (discussed in the next section)


   Basic Hedging Strategies for ESOs  

Basic ESO hedging strategies include writing calls, buying puts, and constructing costless collars. Of these strategies, writing calls is the only one where the erosion of time value in ESOs can be offset by getting time decay working in one’s favor. We strongly recommend that you discuss any hedging strategies with your financial planner or wealth manager. Also review your company’s code of ethics and/or related policies—there may be restricted practices on dealing in options related to your company in which you may be considered an insider.



We use options on the hypothetical XYZ Corp., to demonstrate hedging concepts. Say that XYZ closed at $175.13 on November 15, the date at which time the longest-dated options available on the stock are the three-year calls and puts.



Let’s assume you are an XYZ employee who is granted ESOs to buy 500 shares of the company on Nov. 29, which will vest in 1/3 increments over the next three years, and have 10 years to expiration. For reference, the three-year $175 calls in the market are priced at $32.81 (ignoring bid-ask spreads for simplicity), while the 175 puts trade at $24.05.



Here are three basic hedging strategies, based on your assessment of the stock’s outlook. To keep things simple, we assume that you wish to hedge the potential 500-share long position to just past three years.



Write Calls: The assumption here is that you are neutral to moderately bullish on XYZ, in which case one possibility to get time value decay working in your favor is by writing calls. While writing naked or uncovered calls can be a very risky business, in this case your short call position would be covered by the 500 shares you can acquire through the exercise of the ESOs. You therefore write five contracts (each contract covers 100 shares) with a strike price of $250, which would fetch you $10.55 in premium (per share), for a total of $5,275 (excluding costs such as commission, margin interest etc.). If the stock goes sideways or trades lower over the next three years, you pocket the premium, and repeat the strategy after three years. If the stock rockets higher and your XYZ shares are "called" away, you would still receive $250 per XYZ share, which along with the $10.55 premium, equates to a return of almost 50%. (Note that your shares are unlikely to be called away well before the three-year expiration because the option buyer would not wish to lose time value through early exercise). Another alternative is to write one call contract one year out, another contract two years out, and three contracts three years out.
Buy Puts: Let’s say that although you are a loyal XYZ employee, you are a tad bearish on its prospects. This strategy of buying puts will only provide you downside protection, but will not resolve the time decay issue. You think the stock could trade below $150 over the next three years, and therefore buy the three-year $150 puts that are available at $14.20. Your outlay in this case would be $7,100 for five contracts. You would break even if XYZ trades at $135.80 and would make money if the stock trades below that level. If the stock does not decline below $150 within three years' time, you would lose the full $7,100, and if the stock trades between $135.80 and $150 by then you would recoup part of the premium paid. This strategy would not require you to exercise your ESOs and can be pursued as a stand-alone strategy as well.
Costless Collar: This strategy enables you to construct a collar that establishes a trading band for your XYZ holdings, at no or minimal upfront cost. It consists of a covered call, with part or all of the premium received used to buy a put. In this case, writing the 3-year $215 calls will fetch $19.90 in premium, which can be used to buy the 3-year $165 puts at $19.52. In this strategy, your stock runs the risk of being called away if it trades above $215, but your downside risk is capped at $165. 



Of these strategies, writing calls is the only one where you can offset the erosion of time value in your ESOs by getting time decay working in your favor. Buying puts aggravates the issue of time decay but is a good strategy to hedge downside risk, while the costless collar has minimal cost but does not resolve the issue of ESO time decay.




How Do ESOs Differ From Listed Options?
ESOs differ from exchange-traded or listed options in many ways. As they are not traded, their value is not easy to ascertain. Unlike listed options, ESOs do not have standardized specifications or automatic exercise. Counterparty risk and concentration risk are two risks of which ESO holders should be cognizant.




Are ESOs Worthless at First?
Although ESOs have no intrinsic value at option grant, it would be naïve to assume that they are worthless. Because of their lengthy time to expiration compared to listed options, ESOs have a significant amount of time value that should not be frittered away through early exercise.




What Are the Tax Implications of Receiving Employee Stock Options?
While the option grant is not a taxable event, taxation begins at the time of exercise and the sale of acquired stock also triggers another taxable event. Tax payable at the time of exercise is a major deterrent against early exercise of ESOs.Despite the large tax liability and loss of time value incurred through early exercise, it may be justified in certain cases, such as when cashflow is needed, portfolio diversification is required, the stock or market outlook is deteriorating, or stock needs to be delivered for a hedging strategy using calls.


   The Bottom Line  

ESOs are a form of equity compensation granted by companies to their employees and executives. Like a regular call option, an ESO gives the holder the right to purchase the underlying asset—the company’s stock—at a specified price for a finite period of time. ESOs are not the only form of equity compensation, but they are among the most common.



Stock options are of two main types. Incentive stock options, generally only offered to key employees and top management, receive preferential tax treatment in many cases, as the IRS treats gains on such options as long-term capital gains. Non-qualified stock options (NSOs) can be granted to employees at all levels of a company, as well as to board members and consultants. Also known as non-statutory stock options, profits on these are considered to be ordinary income and are taxed as such.



ESO holders should be familiar with their company’s stock options plan as well as their options agreement to understand any restrictions and clauses therein. Employees should also be familiar with their company's code of ethics or professional conduct policies  They should also consult their financial planner or wealth manager to gain the maximum benefit of this potentially lucrative component of compensation.
What Is an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP)?  

An employee stock ownership plan (ESOP) is an employee benefit plan that gives workers ownership interest in the company in the form of shares of stock. ESOPs give the sponsoring company—the selling shareholder—and participants various tax benefits, making them qualified plans, and are often used by employers as a corporate finance strategy to align the interests of their employees with those of their shareholders.





Key Takeaways

An employee stock ownership plan (ESOP) is an employee benefit plan that gives workers ownership interest in the company in the form of shares of stock.ESOPs encourage employees to give their all as the company’s success translates into financial rewards.They also help staff to feel more appreciated and better compensated for the work they do.Companies typically tie distributions from the plan to vesting, which gives employees rights to employer-provided assets over time.It’s important to read the terms of your ESOP, as each one may vary and have different rules.Other versions of employee ownership include direct-purchase programs, stock options, restricted stock, phantom stock, and stock appreciation rights. 


   How Does an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) Work?  

An ESOP is usually formed to facilitate succession planning in a closely held company by allowing employees the opportunity to buy shares of the corporate stock.



ESOPs are set up as trust funds and can be funded by companies putting newly issued shares into them, putting cash in to buy existing company shares, or borrowing money through the entity to buy company shares. ESOPs are used by companies of all sizes, including a number of large publicly traded corporations.



Contrary to what some people say, companies with an ESOP must not discriminate and are required to appoint a trustee to act as the plan fiduciary. Among other things, it is not possible for senior employees to receive more shares or for ESOP participants to have no voting rights.


   Advantages of ESOPs  

Since ESOP shares are part of the employees’ remuneration package, companies can use ESOPs to keep plan participants focused on corporate performance and share price appreciation. By giving plan participants an interest in seeing the company’s stock perform well, these plans supposedly encourage participants to do what’s best for shareholders, since the participants themselves are shareholders.



Employees, meanwhile, are presented with a way to make more money, increase their compensation, and essentially be rewarded for their hard work and commitment. Having a stake in the company should make employees feel more appreciated and perhaps make going to work more exciting.






ESOPs incentivize employees to give their all and thus can favor all parties.


   ESOP Up-Front Costs and Distributions  

Companies often provide employees with such ownership with no up-front costs. The company may hold the provided shares in a trust for safety and growth until the employee retires or resigns.



Companies typically tie distributions from the plan to vesting, which gives employees rights to employer-provided assets over time; typically, they earn an increasing proportion of shares for each year of their service.






Vesting can happen immediately, after a certain number of years (cliff), or gradually over time (graded).



When a fully vested employee retires or resigns from the company, the firm “purchases” the vested shares back from them. The money goes to the employee in a lump sum or equal periodic payments, depending on the plan.



Once the company purchases the shares and pays the employee, the company redistributes or voids the shares. Employees who leave the company voluntarily cannot take the shares of stock with them, only the cash payment.


   How to Cash Out of an ESOP  

Being vested doesn’t necessarily mean you can cash out of your ESOP. Generally, it’s only possible to redeem these shares if you terminate employment, retire, die, or become disabled. 



Age is often an important factor. Distributions are rarely permitted to people under 59½—or 55 if terminated—and, if they are allowed, they could be subject to a 10% early withdrawal penalty. Specific information about how to cash out of an ESOP can be found in the terms listed in the plan’s guidelines.






If you need money, you may be able to borrow from your ESOP balance. Alternatively, it is sometimes possible to withdraw dividend proceeds or money earned by increases in stock prices.


   ESOP and Other Forms of Employee Ownership  

Stock ownership plans provide packages that act as additional employee benefits and embody the corporate culture that company managements want to maintain. Other versions of employee ownership include direct-purchase programs, stock options, restricted stock, phantom stock, and stock appreciation rights. 



Direct stock purchase plan (DSPP) lets employees purchase shares of their respective companies with their personal after-tax money. Some countries provide special tax-qualified plans that let employees purchase company stock at discounted prices. 
Restricted stock gives employees the right to receive shares as a gift or a purchased item after meeting particular restrictions, such as working for a specific period or hitting specific performance targets. 
Stock options provide employees the opportunity to buy shares at a fixed price for a set period.
Phantom stock provides cash bonuses for good employee performance. These bonuses equate to the value of a particular number of shares. 
Stock appreciation rights give employees the right to raise the value of an assigned number of shares. Companies usually pay these shares in cash.




What Does ESOP Stand for?
ESOP stands for employee stock ownership plan. An ESOP grants company stock to employees, often based on the duration of their employment. Typically, it is part of a compensation package, where shares will vest over a period of time. ESOPs are designed so that employees’ motivations and interests are aligned with those of the company’s shareholders. From a management perspective, ESOPs have certain tax advantages, along with incentivizing employees to focus on company performance.




How Does an ESOP Work?
First, an ESOP is set up as a trust fund. Here, companies may place newly issued shares, borrow money to buy company shares, or fund the trust with cash to purchase company shares. Meanwhile, employees can accumulate a growing number of shares, an amount that can rise over time depending on their employment term. These shares are meant to be sold only at or after the time of retirement or termination, and the employee is remunerated by receiving the cash value of their shares.




What Is an Example of an ESOP?
Consider an employee who has worked at a large tech firm for five years. Under the company’s ESOP, they have the right to receive 20 shares after the first year, and 100 shares total after five years. When the employee retires, they will receive the share value in cash. Stock ownership plans may include stock options, restricted shares, and stock appreciation rights, among others.




Are ESOPs Good for Employees?
Yes, ESOPs can generally be considered a benefit for workers. These programs tend to be adopted by companies that don’t chop and change staff frequently and often result in a bigger payout and greater financial compensation for employees.


   The Bottom Line  

ESOPs are generally a win-win for employers and employees, encouraging greater effort and commitment in exchange for bigger financial rewards. However, they are not always straightforward and can be frustrating if the participant doesn’t fully understand the terms of their particular plan.



Not all ESOPs are the same. Rules on actions such as vesting and withdrawals can vary, and it’s important to be aware of them to make the most of this benefit and not potentially miss out on a big extra bonus.
What Is an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP)?  

An employee stock purchase plan (ESPP) is a company-run program in which participating employees can purchase company stock at a discounted price.



Employees contribute to the plan through payroll deductions which build up between the offering date and the purchase date. At the purchase date, the company uses the employee's accumulated funds to purchase stock in the company on behalf of the participating employees.





Key Takeaways

An ESPP is a program in which employees can purchase company stock at a discounted price.Employees contribute through payroll deductions, which build until the purchase date.The discount can be as much as 15% in some cases.Income or loss from the sale of shares you purchased through an ESPP is generally taxed as a capital gain or loss, though there are holding period requirements.


   Understanding Employee Stock Purchase Plans (ESPPs)  

With an employee stock purchase plan, employees have the option to buy stock in their employer at a discounted price. This is offered as a benefit of employment when they are hired, in the same way that access to a 401(k) plan for retirement savings is a benefit. The goal is that employees can purchase valuable stock for lower than the market price, allowing them to make a profit. The company growing and becoming more successful then causes the stock to become even more valuable, which then increases the benefit to the employee.



With employee stock purchase plans, the discount rate on company shares depends on the specific plan but can be as much as 15% lower than the market price. ESPPs may have a “look back” provision allowing the plan to use a historical closing price of the stock. This price may be either the price of the stock offering date or the purchase date—often whichever figure is lower.


  Qualified vs. Non-qualified Plans  

ESPPs are categorized in two ways: qualified and non-qualified. Qualified plans require the approval of shareholders before implementation, and all plan participants have equal rights in the plan. The offering period of a qualified ESPP cannot be greater than three years and there are restrictions on the maximum price discount allowable. Non-qualified plans are not subject to as many restrictions as a qualified plan. However, non-qualified plans do not have the tax advantages of after-tax deductions that qualified plans do.


  Important Dates  

Participation in the company ESPP may only commence after the offering period has begun. This period begins on the offering date, and this date corresponds with the grant date for the stock option plans. The purchase date will mark the end of the payroll deduction period. Some offering periods have multiple purchase dates in which stock may be purchased.






Your employment contract should contain these dates. If you are unsure where to find information about your EESP, contact the HR department at your employer.


  Eligibility  

ESPPs typically do not allow individuals who own more than 5% of company stock to participate. Restrictions are often in place to disallow employees who have not been employed with the company for a specified duration—often one year. All other employees typically have the option to participate in the plan, though they are not required to.


  Key Figures  

During the application period, employees state the amount to be deducted from their pay and contributed to the plan. This may be subject to a percentage limitation. In addition, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) restricts the total dollar amount to be contributed to $25,000 per calendar year. Most ESPPs grant employees a price discount of up to 15%.


   Taxes and Employee Stock Purchase Plans  

The taxation rules regarding ESPPs are complex. In general, you will be taxed on any stock you purchase through an ESPP during the year you sell it. It can be counted either as taxable income or as a deductible loss.



The difference between what you paid for the stock and what you received when you sell it is considered a capital gain or loss. Any discount offered to the original stock price is taxed as ordinary income, while the remaining gain is taxed as a long-term capital gain. The entire gain will be taxed as ordinary income if you have not held it for:



One year after the stock was transferred to you; orTwo years after the option was granted




Can I Cash Out My Employee Stock Purchase Plan?
Yes. The payroll deductions you have set aside for an ESPP are yours if you have not yet used them to purchase stock. You will need to notify your plan administrator and fill out any paperwork required to make a withdrawal. If you have already purchased stock, you will need to sell your shares.




Can I Sell ESPP Stock Right Away?
Yes, you can sell stock purchased through your ESPP plan immediately if you want to guarantee that you profit from your discount. Otherwise, the value of the stock may go up, which increases your profit, or it may go down, causing you to lose money. However, you will pay a lower tax rate if you hold the stock for more than a year and sell it more than two years after the offering date.




Is an ESPP Income or Capital Gains?
If you sell stock purchased through your ESPP more than 12 months after you purchased it, any gain beyond the discount that you received through the plan is taxed as a capital gain. The discount is taxed as ordinary income. In general, capital gains tax rates are much lower than ordinary income tax rates, ranging from 0% to 20% depending on your income bracket.


   The Bottom Line  

An employee stock purchase plan is an employment benefit that allows employees to purchase stock in the company that employs them at a discounted price, sometimes up to 15%. Employees can build contributions through payroll deductions until the purchase date specified in their contract is a program in which employees can purchase company stock at a discounted price.



In general, shares purchased through an ESPP are treated like other stock at tax time: you would report a capital gain or loss on your income taxes the year that you sell the stock, though you may have to pay your ordinary tax rate on the difference between what you paid at the market price of the stock.
What Is an Employer Identification Number (EIN)?  

The term employer identification number (EIN) refers to a unique identifier that is assigned to a business entity so that it can easily be identified by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). EINs are commonly used by employers for the purpose of reporting taxes. The number is made up of nine digits and is formatted as XX-XXXXXXX. Businesses can apply for EINs directly through the IRS, which usually issues them immediately.





Key Takeaways

An employer identification number is a unique nine-digit number that is assigned to a business entity.EINs allow the IRS to easily identify businesses for tax reporting purposes.All businesses that meet certain criteria must have an EIN before they can begin operating.Applying for one is free and applications are available on the IRS website.Along with tax reporting, EINs allow businesses to open bank accounts and apply for credit.


   Understanding Employer Identification Numbers  

Employer identification numbers are issued to identify business entities in the United States the same way Social Security Numbers (SSNs) are used to identify individual residents of the country. The EIN is also known as a Federal Tax Identification Number.



As noted above, EINs are unique nine-digit numbers that are formatted as XX-XXXXXXX. EINs are issued by the IRS and include information about the state in which the corporation is registered. The agency uses EINs to identify taxpayers that are required to file various business tax returns.



You need an EIN if you have employees, operate as corporations or partnerships, file certain tax returns, or withhold taxes from income other than wages. Business entities must apply for an EIN by phone, online, fax, or mail before they can begin operations. All forms of businesses can apply for and be issued EINs, including:



Limited liability companies (LLCs)
Sole proprietorships
Non-profit organizations (NPOs)
Government agencies
S corporations
Partnerships
Estates
Trusts



The IRS is not biased toward the size of the company. This means even those with only one employee are just as eligible for an EIN as multinational corporations.






The EIN is not considered to be sensitive information the same way a Social Security number is and is freely distributed by businesses online and in print publications.


   Do I Need an Employee Identification Number?  

The IRS requires certain companies to obtain an EIN as part of reporting requirements. A company must file for and receive an EIN if the company:



has any employees.
operates as a corporation or a partnership.
files employment, excise, or alcohol, tobacco, and firearms tax returns.
withhold taxes on income paid to non-resident aliens.
have a Keogh plan. 
are involved with a number of types of organizations including but not limited to trusts, estates, or non-profits.


   How to Get an Employer Identification Number  

Applying for an EIN costs nothing. Applications can be made by phone (for those who aren't in the United States but will do business in the country), fax, mail, or online. The process is fairly easy and uncomplicated.



Applicants must fill out Form SS-4: Application for Employer Identification Number, which is available on the IRS website. The IRS requires the following information to be included on the application in order to issue an EIN, such as the name of the company's principal officer, partner, trustor, owner, or any other title, along with their personal taxpayer identification number.



Some of the information that must be included on the form includes:



The type of entity
The reasons for applying (new business, change of organization, IRS withholding requirement compliance)
The start or acquisition date
The principal industry of business



A business must be located in the U.S. or U.S. territories to apply for an EIN online. Once the online information is validated, an EIN is assigned immediately.






The person responsible for the business, regardless of their title within the company, must be an individual and not an entity.


   Benefits of an Employer Identification Number  

EINs are unique to the businesses to which they are assigned. The numbers never expire, and the same number set is never reissued to another business, even if the original employer goes out of business.



The main advantage of getting one is being able to operate. You can't run your business without it. You must apply for an employer identification number before you even get started. You also need an EIN to do the following:



Hiring and paying employees
Opening bank accounts, obtaining credit, and investing surplus cash
Maintaining corporate shields
Filing business taxes and registering state taxes



Getting an EIN allows you to keep your personal finances separate from your business ones. This allows you to shield your personal information and keep it protected from identity theft.



Self-employed individuals such as subcontractors are typically required to have an EIN, which will be used by the primary contractor to report to the IRS all business income paid to the subcontractor.






Businesses that change their ownership structure usually must apply for a new EIN. For example, sole proprietors who plan to incorporate their businesses must apply for a new EIN.


   Closing Your Employee Identification Number  

Once you are assigned an EIN, that identification number will forever be associated with you and your company. That EIN becomes permanently associated with that entity, and the IRS can technically never cancel an EIN.



An EIN is a critical part in required financial reporting. Even if an entity never files any return, the EIN is still associated with it. Once an EIN is issued, the identification number can be used at a later day if the entity needs.



If you do receive an identification number but later decide the number was never needed, the IRS can close your associated business account. This is often the case for startup companies that never actually launch. A physical letter must be mailed indicating the legal name, business address, EIN number, and reason for the account closure. The EIN will remain; only the IRS business account will be suspended.


   Employee Identification Number vs. Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN)  

A Tax Identification Number (TIN) is a broad term used to describe any type of identification number. An EIN is a specific type of TIN. A TIN is a generic descriptor for an assortment of numbers that can be used on a tax form including but not limited to:



EINSSNITIN (Individual Taxpayer Identification Number)ATIN (Adoption Taxpayer Identification Number)PTIN (Preparer Taxpayer Identification Number)



Depending on the nature of the particular taxpayer, the EIN may or may not be the TIN used by the IRS. For sole proprietors, the TIN is often their Social Security number. For corporations, partnerships, trusts, and estates, their TIN is often an EIN.




What Happens If You Lose or Misplace Your EIN?
If you misplace your EIN, look for it on the notice sent to you by the IRS when your EIN was issued You can also try to recover it by contacting the financial institution where you do your day-to-day banking. You can also find it on your previous tax returns. If all else fails, contact the IRS' Business & Specialty Tax Line at 1-800-829-4933. Make sure you have any identifying information on hand before you speak to an operator.




Does My Business Need an EIN?
Every business entity needs an employer identification number, including those that have employees, operate as corporations or partnerships, file certain tax returns (Employment, Excise, or Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms), withhold income taxes on income other than wages.




How Do I Find an Employer Identification Number?
You can find an employer identification number using a tax return, applications for bank accounts or credit, on any state licenses or permits, or on forms used to report work done as an independent contractor or payments made by your business.




How Long Will It Take to Get an EIN?
When applying online, you can get an EIN immediately. An EIN application can be faxed to the IRS, though this mode of application may take up to two weeks. The IRS also accepts paper mail applications, though it quotes an expected turnaround time between four and five weeks.
What Is Employers' Liability Insurance?  

Employers' liability insurance is an insurance policy that handles claims from workers who have suffered a job-related injury or illness not covered by workers' compensation. A type of liability insurance, it can be packaged with workers' compensation to further protect companies against the costs associated with workplace injuries, illnesses, and deaths.



However, employers' liability insurance does not cover legal costs from employee lawsuits charging discrimination, sexual harassment, or wrongful termination. To cover these situations, an employer would need to purchase a separate type of policy called employment practices liability insurance (EPLI).





Key Takeaways

Employers' liability insurance covers companies against costs and claims by employees that are not covered by workers' compensation.Many organizations choose to carry employers' liability insurance to help cover legal costs and lawsuits.Most workers’ compensation insurance policies automatically include employers' liability insurance.Employers' liability insurance places limits on the amounts paid out per employee, per incident, or per policy.


   How Employers' Liability Insurance Works  

The majority of private-sector employees are covered by workers' compensation laws established at the state level (federal employees work under federal workers' compensation laws). States require most employers to carry workers' compensation insurance.



Workers' compensation provides some level of coverage for medical expenses and lost wages for employees or their beneficiaries when an employee is injured, falls sick, or is killed as a result of their job. There is no need for the employee to sue the employer to establish fault in order to qualify for workers' compensation benefits.



However, if an employee feels that workers' compensation does not adequately cover their loss—perhaps because they feel their employer’s negligence caused their injury—they may decide to sue their employer for punitive damages arising from their situation, for things such as pain and suffering.



This is where employers' liability insurance comes in. Designed to deal with expenses that fall outside the realm of the workers' compensation statutes or general liability insurance, it provides additional protection against financial loss for the company or business.



Employers' liability coverage is typically purchased along with workers' compensation. In fact, employers' liability insurance is often called “part 2” of a workers’ compensation policy. Part 1 of the policy is the actual "workers’ comp," which pays for medical/death expenses and partial lost wages from work-related injuries and illnesses. Part 2 would be the employers' liability coverage, protecting the business from claims for additional damages and compensation.





$110,000

The average additional sum a firm without employer liability insurance protection would have to pay in court cases, according to the Hiscox Guide to Employee Lawsuits.


   What Employers' Liability Insurance Covers  

Other sorts of claims covered by employers' liability insurance include:



Third-party lawsuits: Filed by another entity distantly involved in the workplace incident. An employee may be injured by a piece of equipment on the job, for example, and sue the equipment manufacturer—who then files suit against the employer.Loss of consortium lawsuits: Filed by family members of a deceased or disabled employee, seeking compensation for the loss of the relative or their income.Consequential bodily injury lawsuits: Filed by a non-employee who suffers physical damage as a result of an employee's injury, such as a spouse who develops health problems from taking care of the injured worker.Dual-capacity lawsuits: When an employee sues their employer both as an employer and as something else—the maker of a product, provider of a service, landlord, etc. One example: A piece of a ceiling in the workplace falls and hits a worker, and they file suit against their company in its dual capacity as employer and as the premises owner.



Many companies choose to carry employers' liability insurance to help cover the costs of defending the organization in court. Claims can become complicated and costly for employers, particularly in the case of a lawsuit. A claim may be legitimate or not, but even so, many businesses cannot accept that level of risk, and they take measures to insure against it. Their liability coverage applies to both court-awarded sums and to payments reached in out-of-court settlements.






In the event of a payout under an employers' liability insurance policy, an employer can help limit their losses by including, as a condition of the payout, a clause that releases the employer and their insurance company from further liability—that is, responsibility—related to the incident in question.



Employers' liability insurance policies tend to place limits on payouts per employee, per injury, and overall. These limits might be as low as $100,000 per worker, $100,000 per incident, and $500,000 per policy. Employers' liability insurance only applies to full- or part-time employees. It does not cover independent contractors or employees working outside of the U.S. or Canada.


   Employers' Liability Insurance Limits  

Employers' liability insurance coverage does not cover every situation. Exclusions include criminal acts, fraud, illegal profit or advantage, purposeful violation of the law, and claims arising out of downsizing, layoffs, workforce restructurings, plant closures, strikes, mergers, or acquisitions.



If an employer intentionally aggravates an employee’s work-related injury or illness, employers' liability insurance will not cover the employers' financial obligations to the employee, and the employer will have to pay if the employee wins in court.



Also, many states do not allow insurers' coverage to apply to punitive damages. However, many employers' liability insurance policies do manage to cover these costs through a "most-favored jurisdiction" clause. The clause specifies that the policy's coverage will be regulated by the state law that does allow employers' liability insurance to provide compensation for punitive damages—a jurisdiction that favors them, in other words.



Take, for example, a company that has offices and work sites all around the U.S. A claim arises in a state where punitive damages are excluded from employers' liability insurance. If the company is established in a state that does allow punitive damages coverage, then the company employers' liability insurance policy can protect it after all.


  Employment Practices Liability Insurance (EPLI)  

It's important to note that employers' liability insurance and workers' compensation do not cover employers against employee claims alleging discrimination (for example, based on sex, race, age, or disability), wrongful termination, harassment, slander, libel, and other employment-related issues such as failure to promote. The employer would need to purchase a separate type of policy—called employment practices liability insurance (EPLI)—for this kind of coverage.




How Is Employers' Liability Insurance Different From General Liability?
In terms of the scope of what it encompasses, general liability insurance only covers a business from outside claims including customer injuries or negligence. It does not protect a business from employee-related negligence. Employers' liability insurance is for legal claims filed by injured workers.




What Is Excluded From Employers' Liability Insurance?
There are a number of circumstances not covered by Employers' liability insurance including criminal acts, fraud, illegal profit, violation of the law and any claims that are the result of downsizing, layoffs, restructurings, mergers or acquisitions.




Do You Need EPLI and ELI?
EPLI, or Employment Practices Liability Insurance (EPLI) is different from ELI or Employers' Liability Insurance. Employers need to buy EPLI to make sure that they are covered from employee lawsuits that allege discrimination, sexual harassment, or wrongful termination -- none of which are covered by Employers' Liability Insurance.


   The Bottom Line  

Employers' liability insurance protects a company from legal claims filed by workers who have experienced a job-related injury or illness. It is a type of liability insurance that, in conjunction with workers compensation, covers companies against costs and claims made by injured employees. Criminal acts, fraud, and violation of the law are among the circumstances not covered by employers' liability insurance. Employee lawsuits regarding discrimination, sexual harassment, or wrongful termination are covered under Employment Practices Liability Insurance (EPLI).
What Are Employment Agency Fees?  

The term employment agency fee refers to a fee paid by a company to an employment agency when it successfully places a suitable employee with that employer. Fees tend to vary widely from one agency to another, as they are at the discretion of the agency. There are two types of employment agency fees—employer-paid fees and applicant-paid fees.





Key Takeaways

Employment agency fees are paid by a company to an employment agency when it successfully places a suitable employee with that employer.With employer-paid fees, the employer pays the fee to the agency, so the employee pays nothing.Applicant-paid fees are less common and are normally claimed as a portion of a worker's hourly pay during the term of a contract. 


   Understanding Employment Agency Fees  

Companies that hire workers may do so in several ways—directly by advertising positions through their own human resources (HR) departments or through employment agencies. Agencies are organizations that do the legwork for employers. They post positions, find, and match employers with temporary, and contract employees.



Employment agencies may earn fees from any employer, whether they're public organizations or private companies. Different employment agencies may have different methods of negotiating and charging fees. With employment agency fees (also referred to as placement agency fees), how and how much an agency may charge often depends on a variety of factors, including the difficulty of the placement, the industry, the position, market conditions, and several other factors. Fees are generally contingent on both parties—employer and employee—coming to an agreement on an employment contract or the terms of employment.






Employment agency fees are normally contingent on the employee being hired.



Headhunters are one type of recruitment service. These companies are hired by major firms to locate talent, especially those who fall into a specific category. Because most headhunters work directly with executives, they are also called executive recruiters. Their fees are normally paid only when and if the candidate is hired.


   Types of Employment Agency Fees  

As mentioned above, there are two types of employment agency fees—employer-paid and applicant-paid fees.


  Employer-Paid Fees  

Under the employer-paid fee, the employer assumes complete responsibility for the fee to the agency, so the employee pays nothing. This is the more common type of fee arrangement and is preferred by employment agencies. The employee may not even notice that a fee has been attached to their job placement, as the hiring company may factor in their hiring costs when accounting for the compensation for a role.



As mentioned above, headhunters are paid for their services once an employee is hired. Their fees range anywhere between 20% to 30% of the new hire's first-year salary. This is paid directly by the hiring company to the agency rather than by the employee.



With the proliferation of telecommunications and IT companies, there is a different type of employer-paid fee arrangement. Some employment agencies have become the employer and a hiring company can contract for the services of such employees from them. The company pays the employment agency a monthly fee for employees instead of to the employee. The employees supplied by the employment agency remain employees of the agency rather than of the company.


  Applicant-Paid Fees  

With this arrangement—also referred to as the employee-paid fee—the employment agency fees are charged to the applicant for the service of finding an employer. This normally entails an employment agency, which acts as a staffing agency, claiming a portion of a worker's hourly pay during the term of a contract.



For example, if a worker is offered a 12-month contract position at $49 an hour, the hiring company may have actually budgeted $60 an hour. The employment agency may pocket the difference or a portion of the difference in lieu of a one-time fee without the employee ever knowing of the arrangement.



Although employment agencies receive fees to match people with employers, employees should be wary of groups that charge them directly for their placement services. A legitimate agency should never charge an employee a fee to find them work or to place them with an employer.
What Is Employment Insurance (EI)?  

Employment Insurance (EI) is an unemployment insurance program in Canada that allows individuals who have recently lost a job to receive temporary financial assistance. Employment insurance can also be extended to individuals who are unable to work because of illness or who are caring for a young child or a seriously ill family member. In addition to financial assistance, the program assists the unemployed with job search services.


   Understanding Employment Insurance (EI)  

The Employment Insurance Act replaced the Unemployment Insurance Act of 1996. The updated scheme was designed to link unemployment benefits with wages and to reduce penalties for those who could only find temporary work. To qualify for benefits, individuals must work a certain number of hours, and the length of time for which benefits are provided depends on an individual's geographic region's unemployment rate. 






Employment insurance offers a wide range of benefits to those who qualify for them.



Employers contribute 1.4 times the amount of employee premiums. Since 1990, there has been no government contribution to this fund. The amount a person receives and how long they can stay on EI varies with their previous salary, how long they were working, and the unemployment rate in their area. 



EI birthing benefits are offered to biological birthing parents, including surrogate people, who cannot work because they are pregnant or have recently given birth and parents of a newly adopted child.



A maximum of 15 weeks of EI birthing benefits is available, and according to the Canadian government website, if a child has been "born or placed with you" after March 17, 2019, you may be "eligible for 5 extra weeks of standard parental care benefits" or "8 extra weeks of extended parental benefits" depending on your circumstances.





Key Takeaways

EI benefits are offered by the Canadian government.These benefits include not only birthing and parental care benefits but also 26-weeks of compassionate care benefits, for those citizens who have to leave work to care for a dying loved one.Employment benefits in Canada include pensions and benefits for housing, training, education, for family leave, and people with disabilities.



Benefits can be paid as early as 12 weeks before the expected date of birth and can end as late as 17 weeks after the actual date of birth. The weekly benefit rate is 55% of the claimant’s average weekly insurable earnings up to a maximum amount.



EI sickness assistance provides benefits to people who are unable to work because of sickness, injury, or quarantine. Applicants can receive up to a maximum of 15 weeks of EI sickness benefits.



EI also offers compassionate care benefits, which are paid to people who have to be away from work temporarily to provide care or support to a family member or who is gravely ill themselves with a significant risk of death. A maximum of 26 weeks of compassionate care benefits may be paid to eligible people.


   Special Considerations  

Over half of EI benefits are paid in Ontario and the Western provinces. However, EI is especially important in the Atlantic provinces, where there are more unemployed persons. Part of the reason why is that many Atlantic province workers are employed in seasonal work such as fishing, forestry, or tourism. They go on EI over the winter, when there is no work. There are special rules for fisherfolk making it easier for them to collect employment insurance.
What Is the Employment-to-Population Ratio?  

The employment-to-population ratio, also known as the “employment-population ratio,” is a macroeconomic statistic that measures the civilian labor force currently employed against the total working-age population of a region, municipality, or country. It is viewed as a broad metric of labor unemployment.



It is often calculated by dividing the number of people employed by the total number of people of working age,





Key Takeaways

The employment-to-population ratio is a measure of the number of people employed against the total working-age population.Seasonal variations and short-term labor fluctuations do not affect the employment-to-population ratio.Unlike the unemployment rate, the employment-to-population ratio includes unemployed people not looking for jobs.


   Understanding the Employment-to-Population Ratio  

Compared with other measures of labor force participation, the employment-to-population ratio is not as affected by seasonal variations or short-term fluctuations in the labor market. As a result, it is often considered to be a more reliable indicator of job shrinkage or growth than the unemployment rate.



If 50 million people are employed in an area with 75 million people of working age, the employment-to-population ratio is 66.7%. The calculation is as follows:









Labor Force Employed


Total Population




\frac{\text{Labor Force Employed}}{\text{Total Population}}


Total PopulationLabor Force Employed​



This measure is similar to the labor force participation rate, which measures the total labor force—and not just the part of the labor force already employed like the unemployment rate does—divided by the total population. 



The civilian labor force is a term used by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) to refer to Americans who are considered either employed or unemployed. Those not included in the labor force count include military personnel, federal government employees, retirees, handicapped or discouraged workers, and some agricultural workers.






Many economists use the total working-age population in the denominator, but the official measure of the employment-to-population ratio measured by the BLS uses the "noninstitutional" civilian population, which excludes the following:Active-duty members of the U.S. Armed ForcesPeople confined to or living in mental institutions or facilitiesPeople living in prisons, jails, and other correctional institutions and detention centersThose living in residential care facilities such as skilled nursing homes


   Disadvantages of the Employment-to-Population Ratio  

The employment-to-population ratio does not include the institutionalized population, such as people in mental hospitals and prisons, or people in school who are studying for a career. It also doesn’t take into account underground market labor.



The employment-to-population ratio also fails to account for people who are over or under the working age but are still working, such as babysitters, child actors, or moonlighting retirees. These workers may be counted in the "employed" side of the ratio but may not be included in the total number of people of working age. As a result, their employment inaccurately increases the ratio.






The employment-to-population ratio does not take hours worked into account, so it fails to distinguish between part-time and full-time workers.


   The Employment-to-Population Ratio vs. the Unemployment Rate  

Unsurprisingly, based on the characteristics outlined above, the employment-to-population ratio does not directly relate to the unemployment rate. For example, in February 2020 the employment-to-population ratio was 61.1%, but the unemployment rate was only 3.5%. Together these numbers only account for 64.6% of the population. This necessarily raises the question of what happened to the remaining third of the population.



The largest discrepancy between these two numbers exists because the unemployment figure does not indicate the number of people without employment. People who want a job but have given up on their quest to find one are not included in the nation’s unemployment number. The unemployment rate usually only indicates the number of unemployed people who are actively looking for jobs. It also does not include those who have exhausted their unemployment benefits, which may artificially inflate the employment-to-population ratio.



People who have retired early and those who have decided to go back to school to further their job prospects are not taken into account in the unemployment figure. However, their absence from the workforce is accounted for in the employment-to-population ratio.



Additionally, while the E/P attempts to "quantify" employment numbers, it fails to "qualify" the nature of that number. That means that if 100,000 people with graduate degrees and decades of work experience were laid off from jobs paying $200K per year and were then rehired to stock the shelves at a national supermarket chain for $15k per year, the Employment-to-Population Ratio would look stable, even though the economic impact would be devastating.
What Is Encroachment?  

The term encroachment refers to a situation in real estate where a property owner violates the property rights of his neighbor by building on or extending a structure to the neighbor's land or property intentionally or otherwise. Encroachment is often a problem along disputed property lines where a person intentionally chooses to violate his neighbor's boundaries, or when a property owner is not aware of his boundaries.





Key Takeaways

Encroachment occurs when a property owner trespasses onto their neighbor’s property by building or extending structures beyond their property line. Property owners may encroach on their neighbors intentionally or unintentionally. Structural encroachment occurs when a property owner builds or extends a structure onto public spaces. Boundaries and property lines can be cleared up by getting a land survey. Although similar, easements are consensual and provide fair compensation to the legal property owner.


   Understanding Encroachment  

Property and land surveys are an important part of homeownership. Not only do they help determine property value, but they also help establish property lines and boundaries. Professional surveyors are responsible for completing these surveys. Many homeowners get their first survey when they apply for a mortgage because lenders require them to ensure the loan matches the property's value. Property owners can get surveys completed at any time—especially when someone disputes or encroaches on property lines.






Most mortgage lenders require a land survey as part of the approval process to ensure the loan matches the property value.



Encroachment happens when someone traverses boundaries outlined in a survey, violating the property rights of another property owner. Encroaching on someone else's property is akin to trespassing—that is, entering another person's grounds without their express permission. A homeowner encroaches on their neighbor's property if they build a new structure, add to an existing structure, or extend their fence beyond the lawful boundaries that separate both properties.



Some property owners encroach on their neighbors by knowingly going beyond their property lines. Someone who builds a fence or makes an addition to their home despite knowing of the property lines does so intentionally. But in most cases, encroachment is unintentional—when a property owner is either unaware of or has wrong information about legal boundaries. For instance, a property owner may unintentionally encroach on a neighbor's property by allowing a hedge or a tree limb to grow beyond property limits.



Structural encroachment occurs when a property owner builds or extends a structure onto the public domain such as sidewalks or roads. In most cases, sidewalks and residential streets are generally public property owned by the municipal government. This means that a property owner who builds a driveway or erects landscape components—trees, bushes, and flowers—that encroach on public property, may have the structures removed by the government. Furthermore, the property owner may not be compensated for any damages that occur from tearing down his or her structures.


   Special Considerations  

Since a property survey outlines the physical layouts of a property including the measurement of metes and bounds, wrong information contained in the survey may lead to a physical intrusion on a neighbor’s land. Unintentional encroachment problems are sometimes resolved with a simple conversation between both parties. However, if the disagreement on whether someone’s property right was violated persists, the issue may be taken to court for a resolution.



While encroachment may occur without the knowledge of the violator, property owners should carry out due diligence before erecting any structures that may fall close to the boundary that separates their property from another. Property owners wishing to make changes near their property lines may want to talk to their neighbors or have a land survey done to make sure the work falls within their own property boundaries.


   Encroachment vs. Easement  

People often confuse encroachment is sometimes confused with easement. Both involve a property owner making extensions over their neighbor’s property. While encroachments are the unauthorized use of the neighbor’s property, easements are agreed upon by both parties. In many cases, the party responsible for the easement compensates the other neighbor. An example of an easement can be seen when a property owner explicitly gives a neighbor permission to access a nearby beach through his property.
What Is an Encumbrance?  

An encumbrance is a claim against a property by a party that is not the owner. An encumbrance can impact the transferability of the property and restrict its free use until the encumbrance is lifted. The most common types of encumbrance apply to real estate; these include mortgages, easements, and property tax liens. Not all forms of encumbrance are financial, easements being an example of non-financial encumbrances. An encumbrance can also apply to personal – as opposed to real – property.



The term is used in accounting to refer to restricted funds inside an account that are reserved for a specific liability.





Key Takeaways

An encumbrance is a claim made against a property by someone other than the current titleholder.Some claims do not affect the value of the property. This is usually seen in commercial cases.Some common claims are leases, liens, easements, and mortgages. 


   Understanding Encumbrance  

The term encumbrance covers a wide range of financial and non-financial claims on a property by parties other than the title-holder. Property owners may be encumbered some from exercising full—that is, unencumbered—control over their property. In some cases, the property can be repossessed by a creditor or seized by a government.



Some encumbrances affect the marketability of a security: an easement or a lien can make a title unmarketable. While this does not necessarily mean the title cannot be bought and sold, it can enable the buyer to back out of the transaction, despite having signed a contract, and even seek damages in some jurisdictions.



Other encumbrances, such as zoning laws and environmental regulations, do not affect a property's marketability but do prohibit specific uses for and improvements to the land. 



In Hong Kong, for example, the seller of a property is legally required to inform the real estate agent about any encumbrances against the property in order to avoid any problems later on in the sales process. The real estate agent will provide the buyer with a land search document that will have a list of any encumbrances.﻿﻿


   Types of Encumbrances  

Encumbrance when it comes to real estate, due to its many applications, has many different types. Each type is meant to both protect parties and specify exactly what each claim entails—and is entitled to.


  Easement  

An easement refers to a party's right to use or improve portions of another party's property, or to prevent the owner from using or improving the property in certain ways. The first category is known as an affirmative easement. For example, a utility company may have the right to run a gas line through a person's property, or pedestrians might have the right to use a footpath passing through that property.






It is important, from the buyer's perspective, to be aware of any encumbrances on a property, since these will often transfer to them along with ownership of the property. 



An easement in gross benefits an individual rather than an owner of a property, so that Jennifer might have the right to use her neighbor's well, but that right would not pass on to someone who bought Jennifer's property. A negative easement restricts the title-holder, for example, by preventing them from building a structure that would block a neighbor's light.


  Encroachment  

Encroachment occurs when a party that is not the property owner intrudes on or interferes with the property, for example, by building a fence over the lot line (a trespass), or planting a tree with branches that hang over onto an adjoining property (a nuisance). An encroachment creates an encumbrance on both properties until the issue is resolved: The property housing the encroachment has its free use encumbered, while the owner of the encroaching improvement does not have title to the land it's built on. 


  Lease  

A lease is an agreement to rent a property for an agreed-upon rate and period of time. It is a form of encumbrance because the lessor does not give up title to the property, but one's use of the property is significantly constrained by the lease agreement. 


  Lien  

A lien is a type of security interest, an encumbrance that affects the title to a property. It gives a creditor the right to seize the property as collateral for an unmet obligation, usually an unpaid debt. The creditor can then sell the property to recoup at least a portion of their loan.



A tax lien is a lien imposed by a government to force the payment of taxes; in the U.S., a federal tax lien trumps all other claims on a debtor's assets. A mechanic's lien is a claim on personal or real property the claimant has performed services on. An example is if a contractor made adjustments to your property that were never paid for. Judgment liens are secured against the assets of a defendant in a lawsuit. 


  Mortgage  

A mortgage is one of the most common types of security interests. Essentially, it is a lien against a real estate property. The lender, generally a bank, retains an interest in the title to a house until the mortgage is paid off. If the borrower cannot repay the mortgage, the lender may foreclose, seizing the house as collateral and evicting the inhabitants.


  Restrictive Covenant  

A restrictive covenant is an agreement that a seller writes into a buyer's deed of property to restrict how the buyer may use that property. There might be a provision that requires the buyer to leave a building's original facade intact, for example. As long as they do not break the law, restrictive covenants can be as specific and arbitrary as the parties are willing to agree to.


   Special Consideration: Use in Accounting  

Encumbrance accounting sets aside specific assets to pay anticipated liabilities. For example, a company may reserve a sum of cash to settle up its accounts payable. The presence of an encumbrance can give the illusion that there are more available funds inside an account than what is actually free for use. The money that has been set aside cannot be used for any other expenditures or transactions. Encumbrance accounting, therefore, ensures that a business does not overspend its budget.
What Is End-to-End?  

End-to-end describes a process that takes a system or service from beginning to end and delivers a complete functional solution, usually without needing to obtain anything from a third party. It often refers to vendors that can see a project through from beginning to end, and supply everything needed to create a workable solution—be it hardware, software, labor, written materials, and procedures.



End-to-end solutions also adhere to a philosophy that eliminates middle layers or steps, which helps to optimize the performance and efficiency of a business. This includes pulling in minimal parties along the full project life cycle to ensure minimal disruptions are incurred from start to finish. It is most commonly used in the information technology (IT) sector.





Key Takeaways

End-to-end refers to delivering complex systems or services in functional form after developing it from beginning to end.End-to-end is most common in the IT sector and is used during the planning, implementation, and evaluation stages.End-to-end processing can help optimize a business's performance and efficiency by eliminating the middle man.When dealing with complex services or systems, end-to-end arrangements are often cost-effective.Logistics, when service providers take care of inventory management, storage, and distribution, is an example of end-to-end in industries outside of IT.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   Understanding End-to-End in Information Technology  

Generally, end-to-end solutions are used with vendors that offer comprehensive systems that keep pace with a business’s ever-changing infrastructure requirements, and the changing demands of the IT sector itself. End-to-end suppliers generally handle all of a system's hardware and software, including installation, implementation, and maintenance. An end-to-end solution might cover everything from the client interface to data storage.



A company that offers end-to-end video conferencing products, for example, will provide everything including the monitors and network connections. In e-commerce, end-to-end processing occurs when one company provides a service to another in which it manages the sales, order tracking, and delivery of a product.



When dealing with complex systems or services, it is often easier and more cost-effective for the customer to have only one supplier and one point of contact. Also, IT solutions that involve multiple providers for different parts of the workflow only increase the cost of managing the process so are not considered to be true end-to-end solutions.



End-to-end processes are often used to embrace operational efficiency. For example, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service’s Office of Financial Innovation and Transformation of the Federal government developed end-to-end frameworks. This framework strives to reduce unnecessary steps, automate processes, and achieve large-scale efficiencies. By transforming end-to-end services, the department has identified up to $3 billion of potential cost savings.


   Examples of End-to-End Services  

In the world of procurement, an end-to-end process could mean analyzing each and every point in a company’s supply chain, from sourcing and ordering raw materials to the distribution of goods to end consumers. End-to-end procurement software solutions offer organizations a total overview of their supply chain, such as how long it takes for goods to be sent from suppliers and how much those goods cost.



Another example of end-to-end processing is in logistics, where service providers take care of inventory management, storage, and distribution. By eliminating as many layers and steps as possible, a logistics specialist can optimize distribution and minimize disruptions from road congestion, vehicle breakdowns, and the like.



In the petroleum industry, for example, transportation and logistics companies offer customers flexible and cost-effective end-to-end services, from order planning to inventory monitoring, loading, and transportation, to delivery. The latter includes supplying fuel and lubricants to service stations, aviation fuel to airports, and bitumen to the asphalt industry.




What Does the Phrase End-to-End Mean?
End-to-end refers to a full process from start to finish. It is often used to describe a service that sees something through from the kick-off or initiation through the final product. It may be used to describe a one-time project (i.e. implementation of new software) or may be an internal process (i.e. setting up a new vendor in an accounting system from start to finish).




What Is an End-to-End Product?
An end-to-end product is an item that manages the full development process of a new product from the start of development through final delivery to customers. The end-to-end process may incorporate multiple departments, but it refers to the full span of activities needed from start to finish to furnish the final deliverable.




What Is a Full Project Life Cycle?
The project management lifecycle often consists of four stages: initiation, planning, execution, and close-out. An end to end process will often consist of all four stages, as the process begins with the start of a project or process and ends with the final wrap-up after product or project delivery has been made.




How Is End-to-End Services Implemented in IT?
End-to-end services are often utilized in IT as it meshes well with the implementation and utilization of software. Often, a provider will offer support in the set-up of a product. The provider will then offer ongoing support services including troubleshooting, assistance upgrading to new versions, and daily operational support. The provider's goal is to offer assistance in every facet of the software that may be used from start to finish.
What is Endogenous Growth Theory?  

Endogenous growth theory is an economic theory which argues that economic growth is generated from within a system as a direct result of internal processes. More specifically, the theory notes that the enhancement of a nation's human capital will lead to economic growth by means of the development of new forms of technology and efficient and effective means of production.





Key Takeaways

Endogenous growth theory maintains that economic growth is primarily the result of internal forces, rather than external ones.It argues that improvements in productivity can be tied directly to faster innovation and more investments in human capital from governments and private sector institutions.This view contrasts with neoclassical economics.


   Understanding Endogenous Growth Theory  

The endogenous growth theory offered a fresh perspective on what engineers economic growth. It argued that a persistent rate of prosperity is influenced by internal processes such as human capital, innovation, and investment capital, rather than external, uncontrollable forces, challenging the view of neoclassical economics.



Endogenous growth economists believe that improvements in productivity can be tied directly to faster innovation and more investments in human capital. As such, they advocate for government and private sector institutions to nurture innovation initiatives and offer incentives for individuals and businesses to be more creative, such as research and development (R&D) funding and intellectual property rights.



The idea is that in a knowledge-based economy, the spillover effects from investment in technology and people keep generating returns. Influential knowledge-based sectors, such as telecommunications, software, and other high-tech industries, play a particularly important role here.



Central tenets to endogenous growth theory include:



Government policy's ability to raise a country’s growth rate if they lead to more intense competition in markets and help to stimulate product and process innovation.
There are increasing returns to scale from capital investment, especially in infrastructure and investment in education, health, and telecommunications.
Private sector investment in R&D is a crucial source of technological progress.
The protection of property rights and patents is essential to providing incentives for businesses and entrepreneurs to engage in R&D.
Investment in human capital is a vital component of growth.
Government policy should encourage entrepreneurship as a means of creating new businesses and ultimately as an important source of new jobs, investment, and further innovation.


   History of Endogenous Growth Theory  

Endogenous growth theory emerged in the 1980s as an alternative to the neoclassical growth theory. It questioned how gaps in wealth between developed and underdeveloped countries could persist if investment in physical capital like infrastructure is subject to diminishing returns.



Economist Paul Romer put forward the argument that technological change is not just an exogenous byproduct of independent scientific developments. He sought to prove that government policies, including investment in R&D and intellectual property laws, helped foster endogenous innovation and fuel persistent economic growth.



Romer previously complained that his findings hadn’t been taken seriously enough. However, he was awarded the 2018 Nobel Prize in Economics for his studies on long-term economic growth and its relationship with technological innovation. His concepts are also regularly discussed by politicians when they debate ways to stimulate economies.


   Criticism of Endogenous Growth Theory  

One of the biggest criticisms aimed at the endogenous growth theory is that it is impossible to validate with empirical evidence. The theory has been accused of being based on assumptions that cannot be accurately measured.
What Is an Endogenous Variable?  

An endogenous variable is a variable in a statistical model that's changed or determined by its relationship with other variables within the model. In other words, an endogenous variable is synonymous with a dependent variable, meaning it correlates with other factors within the system being studied. Therefore, its values may be determined by other variables.



Endogenous variables are the opposite of exogenous variables, which are independent variables or outside forces. Exogenous variables can have an impact on endogenous factors, however.





Key Takeaways

Endogenous variables are variables in a statistical model that are changed or determined by their relationship with other variables.Endogenous variables are dependent variables, meaning they correlate with other factors—although it can be a positive or negative correlation.Endogenous variables are important in economic modeling because they show whether a variable causes a particular effect.


   Understanding Endogenous Variables  

Endogenous variables are important in econometrics and economic modeling because they show whether a variable causes a particular effect. Economists employ causal modeling to explain outcomes by analyzing dependent variables based on a variety of factors. For example, in a model studying supply and demand, the price of a good is an endogenous factor because the price can be changed by the producer (supplier) in response to consumer demand.



Economists also include independent variables to help determine to which extent a result can be attributed to an exogenous or endogenous cause. Endogenous variables have values that shift as part of a functional relationship between other variables within the model. The relationship is also referred to as dependent and is seen as predictable in nature.



The variables typically correlate in such a way that a movement in one variable should result in a move in the other variable. In other words, the variables should correlate with each other. However, they don't necessarily need to move in the same direction, meaning a rise in one factor could cause a fall in another. As long as the change in the variables is correlating, it's considered endogenous—regardless of whether it's a positive or negative correlation.






Although endogenous variables are the dependent variables that correlate with each other, knowing to what extent exogenous variables impact a model is important to consider.



Outside of economics, other fields use models with endogenous variables including meteorology and agriculture. Sometimes, the relationship in these models is only endogenous in one direction. For example, while pleasant weather may lead to a higher rate of tourism, higher tourism rates do not affect the weather.


   Endogenous vs. Exogenous Variables  

In contrast to endogenous variables, exogenous variables are considered independent. In other words, one variable within the formula doesn't dictate or directly correlate to a change in another. Exogenous variables have no direct or formulaic relationship. For example, personal income and color preference, rainfall and gas prices, education obtained and favorite flower would all be considered exogenous factors.


   Examples of Endogenous Variables  

For example, assume a model is examining the relationship between employee commute times and fuel consumption. As the commute time rises within the model, fuel consumption also increases. The relationship makes sense since the longer a person’s commute, the more fuel it takes to reach the destination. For example, a 30-mile commute requires more fuel than a 20-mile commute. Other relationships that may be endogenous include:



Personal income to personal consumption, since a higher income typically leads to increases in consumer spending.Rainfall to plant growth is correlated and studied by economists since the amount of rainfall is important to commodity crops such as corn and wheat.Education obtained to future income levels because there's a correlation between education and higher salaries or wages.
What Is an Endorsement?  

An endorsement may be a signature authorizing the legal transfer of a negotiable instrument between parties, or it can be an amendment to a contract or document, such as a life insurance policy or a driver's license. A public declaration of support for a person, product, or service is also called an endorsement.





Key Takeaways

An endorsement has different meanings, but most have to do with the concept of approval or authorization.An endorsement refers to a signature or an equivalent stamp that authorizes payment or a transfer of funds, as when an individual signs a check.Endorsements can refer to amendments to contracts or documents, such as life insurance policies or driver's licenses.A public declaration of support for a person, product, or service is also called an endorsement.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding Endorsements  

While endorsement has several distinct meanings, many of them have to do with the concept of approval or authorization. In business or legal matters, an endorsement refers to a signature or an equivalent stamp that authorizes payment or a transfer of funds, or other financial transaction. It also refers to a note, amendment, or clause to an official document or contract that modifies or specifies terms.



In a more general context, an endorsement is an act of saying or showing that you agree with or support something or someone; the endorser may or may not be compensated. For example, a WNBA basketball player may endorse a pair of Nike-brand shoes in a commercial. Or an actor might endorse a political candidate, appearing at campaign rallies or making speeches.


   Types of Endorsements  
  Signature Endorsements  

A signature is an endorsement. For example, when an employer issues a payroll check, it authorizes or endorses the transfer of money from the business account to the employee. The act of signing the check is considered an endorsement, which serves as proof of the payer's intent to transfer funds to the payee.



In a financial transaction where one party pays with a check, the person receiving the funds must endorse the check with a signature. A signature on the back of the check indicates that the transaction is complete and allows the transfer of money ordered by the check.



If more than one person is listed as a payee on the check, then the endorsement requirements differ depending on how the names are written. (For example, if the check is written out to John Doe and Jane Doe, both people must sign the check.) If the check is written out to John Doe or Jane Doe, then only one signature is required.






Signing the back of a check to be cashed is called a blank endorsement. Anyone can cash or deposit a check with a blank endorsement, even if the check is not written to that individual.


  Insurance Endorsements  

Insurance endorsements are amendments in the form of modifications–or additions–to the original policy. For example, a policy provision continuing monthly income to a beneficiary after the death of the insured is an example of an endorsement and is also known as a rider. Typically, this type of endorsement increases the policy premium due to the added benefits to the policyholder and beneficiary and the increased risk to the insurer.


  License Endorsements  

License endorsements add rights or privileges to a driver. For example, a motorcycle endorsement on a license gives a driver permission to operate a motorcycle on public roads. License endorsements also refer to the types of authorized vehicles or to the type of cargo a vehicle may carry.



The opposite of a license endorsement is a restriction, which forbids certain behavior when driving. For example, someone with a corrective eyewear restriction isn't allowed to drive without glasses or contact lenses.


   Endorsements and Promoting  

Endorsements can also represent a show of support or a form of approval. A person or entity may make a public declaration of support for a person, product, or service. Most commonly, such an endorsement occurs when a government official, an influential person, or an organization expresses their support for a political candidate.






In the U.S., one of the earliest sports celebrities/paid endorsers was Honus Wagner, National League Batting Champion in 1900, 1903, and 1904. In 1905, he signed a contract to promote Louisville Slugger baseball bats (he began his career playing for the Louisville Colonels). Wagner went on to endorse other products, like gum, soda, and razors. But when American Tobacco created a baseball card with his likeness on it to put in their cigarette packs, he asked them to stop. Although Wagner chewed tobacco, he did not want children buying smokes to get his card.



For example, a newspaper may recommend that readers vote for a particular person who is running for office in an upcoming election, publishing an editorial that explains the reasons for their support. The paper is said to be "endorsing" that candidate.



In the field of marketing, supporters or promoters of products are sometimes called "influencers." Often times influencers leverage social media to market the objects of their support.




What Is an Endorsement with Respect to Insurance?
In insurance, an endorsement is also known as a rider and is an amendment that adds to or modifies the original policy.




What Are Other Kinds of Endorsements?
The signature on the back of a check is an endorsement that authorizes the transfer of funds. A public statement approval for a product or person running for office is another kind of endorsement.




How Do You Endorse a Check?
Simply by signing it on the back. That's the short answer to how to endorse a check.That said, there are several variations on the check-endorsement theme. If you just scrawl your signature on the reverse, it's known as a blank endorsement, and anyone can present the check for payment. If you add the words "for deposit only" beneath your signature—a special endorsement—it limits the check funds to being put into an account.If you further add an account number—a restrictive endorsement—it limits the check from going to a specific account. In this era of digital banking, many institutions require checks to be marked as mobile deposits when you endorse them, for further security.


   The Bottom Line  

An endorsement is an amendment or special clause to a document or contract, an authorizing signature, or a public declaration of support. Specific types include insurance, signature, and license endorsements.



Endorsements also have a commercial meaning, when someone—often a celebrity or public figure—is paid to promote or support a product. This sort of endorsement is centuries old, evolving into the social media influencers of contemporary times.
What Is an Endowment?  

An endowment is a donation of money or property to a nonprofit organization, which uses the resulting investment income for a specific purpose. An endowment can also refer to the total of a nonprofit institution’s investable assets, also known as its “principal” or “corpus,” which is meant to be used for operations or programs that are consistent with the wishes of the donor(s). Most endowments are designed to keep the principal amount intact while using the investment income for charitable efforts.





Key Takeaways

Most endowments are designed to keep the principal amount intact while using the investment income for charitable efforts.Endowments tend to be organized as a trust, private foundation, or public charity.Educational institutions, cultural institutions, and service-oriented organizations typically administer endowments.


   Understanding Endowments  

Endowments are typically organized as a trust, private foundation, or public charity. Many endowments are administered by educational institutions, such as colleges and universities. Others are overseen by cultural institutions, such as art museums, libraries, religious organizations, private secondary schools, and service-oriented organizations, such as retirement homes or hospitals.



In some cases, a certain percent of an endowment’s assets are allowed to be used each year so the amount withdrawn from the endowment could be a combination of interest income and principal. The ratio of principal to income would change year to year based on prevailing market rates.


   Policies of Endowments  

Most endowment funds have the following three components, which govern investments, withdrawals, and use of the funds.


  Investment Policy  

The investment policy lays out which types of investments a manager is permitted to make and dictates how aggressive the manager can be when seeking to meet return targets. Many endowment funds have specific investment policies built into their legal structure so that the pool of money must be managed for the long term.



Endowment funds of larger universities can have hundreds, if not thousands, of smaller funds that invest the pools of money in various securities or asset classes. The funds typically have long-term investment goals, such as a specific rate of return or yield. As a result of the investment goals, the asset allocation (or types of investments within the fund) is designed to meet the long-term returns set forth in the fund’s objectives.


  Withdrawal Policy  

The withdrawal policy establishes the amount the organization or institution is permitted to take out from the fund at each period or installment. The withdrawal policy can be based on the needs of the organization and the amount of money in the fund. However, most endowments have an annual withdrawal limit. For example, an endowment might limit the withdrawals to 5% of the total amount in the fund. The reason the percentage of withdrawal is typically so low is that most university endowments are established to last forever and, therefore, have annual spending limits.


  Usage Policy  

The usage policy explains the purposes for which the fund can be used and also serves to ensure that all funding is adhering to these purposes and being used appropriately and effectively. Endowments, whether set up by an institution or given as a gift by donors, can have multiple uses. These include ensuring the financial health of specific departments, awarding scholarships or fellowships on the basis of merit to students, or providing assistance to students from a background of economic hardship.



Chair positions or endowed professorships can be paid with the revenue from an endowment and free up capital that institutions can use to hire more faculty, reducing professor-to-student ratios. These chair positions are considered prestigious and are reserved for senior faculty.



Endowments can also be established for specific disciplines, departments, or programs within universities. Smith College, for example, has an endowment for its botanical gardens, and Harvard University has more than 14,000 separate endowment funds.


   Endowment Types  

There are four different types of endowments:



Unrestricted Endowment – This consists of assets that can be spent, saved, invested, and distributed at the discretion of the institution receiving the gift.Term Endowment – This setup usually stipulates that, only after a period of time or a certain event, can the principal be expended.Quasi Endowment – This is a donation made by an individual or institution and given with the intent of having that fund serve a specific purpose. The principal is typically retained, while the earnings are expended or distributed per specifications of the donor. These endowments are usually started by the institutions that benefit from them via internal transfers or by using unrestricted endowments already given to the institution.Restricted Endowment – This has its principal held in perpetuity, while the earnings from the invested assets are expended per the donor’s specifications.



Except in a few circumstances, the terms of endowments cannot be violated. If an institution is near bankruptcy or has declared it but still has assets in endowments, a court can issue a cy pres doctrine, allowing the institution to use those assets toward better financial health while still honoring the wishes of the donor as closely as possible.






Drawing down the corpus of the endowment to pay debts or operating expenses is known as “invading” or “endowment fund invasion,” and sometimes requires court approval.


   Requirements for Endowments  

Managers of endowments have to deal with the push and pull of interests to make use of assets to forward their causes or sustainably grow their respective foundation, institution, or university. The goal of any group given the task of managing a university’s endowments, for example, is to sustainably grow the funds by reinvestment of the endowment’s earnings while also contributing to the operating cost of the institution and its goals.



Management of an endowment is a discipline unto itself. An outline of considerations compiled by a leading management team includes setting objectives, developing a payout policy, building an asset allocation policy, selecting managers, managing risks systematically, cutting costs, and defining responsibilities.



Philanthropies, or, more specifically, private nonoperating foundations, a category that includes the majority of grant-making foundations, are required by federal law to pay out 5% of their investment assets on their endowments every year for charitable purposes in order to keep their tax-exempt status. Private operating foundations must pay substantially all—85% or more—of their investment income. Community foundations have no requirement.



Under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, substantially large university endowments must pay a tax of 1.4% on net investment income. This tax is levied on endowments held by private colleges and universities with at least 500 students and net assets of $500,000 per student.


   Endowments and Higher Education  

Endowments are such an integral part of Western academic institutions that the size of a school’s endowment can be a fair measure of its well-being. They provide colleges and universities with the ability to fund their operating costs with sources other than tuition and ensure a level of stability by using them as a potential rainy-day fund. Older educational institutions, such as the Ivy League schools in the United States, have been particularly successful in building extremely robust endowment funds, having the advantages of continued donations from wealthy graduates and good fund management. 






Marcus Aurelius established the first recorded endowment, circa 176 AD, for the major schools of philosophy in Athens, Greece.


   Criticism of Endowments  

Harvard and other elite higher educational institutions have come under criticism for the size of their endowments. Critics have questioned the utility of large, multibillion-dollar endowments, likening it to hoarding. Large endowments had been thought of as rainy-day funds for educational institutions, but during the Great Recession, many endowments cut their payouts. A 2014 study published in the American Economic Review looked closely at the incentives behind this behavior and found a trend toward an overemphasis on the health of an endowment rather than the institution as a whole.



It’s not unusual for student activists to look with a critical eye at where their colleges and universities invest their endowments. In 1977, Hampshire College divested from South African investments in protest of apartheid, a move that a large number of educational institutions in the United States followed. Advocating for divestment from industries and countries that students find morally compromised is still prevalent among student activists, though the practice is evolving to improve efficacy, according to reporting by The New Yorker.



More recently, three prominent universities with multibillion-dollar endowments—Harvard, Princeton, and Stanford—declined to accept millions they were set to receive as part of a $14 billion federal aid package for higher education included in the CARES Act, according to reporting by The New York Times. Indeed, Harvard University has now declined emergency COVID-19 relief money from the federal government three times, most recently $25.5 million from President Biden’s American Rescue Plan.


   Real World Examples of Endowments  

The oldest endowments still active today were established by King Henry VIII and his relatives. His grandmother, Countess of Richmond, established endowed chairs in divinity at both Oxford and Cambridge, while Henry VIII established professorships in a variety of disciplines at Oxford and Cambridge.



According to the National Center for Education Statistics article from 2020, the top 10 U.S. universities by endowment size at the end of the fiscal year 2020 were:



Harvard University – $41,894,380,000Yale University – $31,201,686,000University of Texas System Office - $30,522,120,000Stanford University – $28,948,111,000Princeton University – $25,944,283,000Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) – $18,381,518,000University of Pennsylvania – $14,877,363,000Texas A&M University – $12,720,530,000University of Notre Dame (IN) – $12,319,422,000University of Michigan—Ann Arbor – $12,308,473,000


  Harvard University Endowment  

Harvard officials had expected the endowment to shrink in 2020 due to the impact of the pandemic on the economy and financial markets. They were wrong, though, as it returned 7.3% on its investments and actually increased a bit. Similar fears about 2021 proved even more unfounded. Powered by a rising stock market, the endowment returned a whopping 33.6% on its investments and grew by $11.3 billion to $53.2 billion. This made it the largest amount in the endowment’s history. And that is saying something, as, according to The New York Times, Harvard in 2020 was already “the most well-heeled university in the world.”



There are thousands of specific funds within the overall endowment fund for Harvard. The funds’ asset allocation was spread out through various types of investments, including:



Equities: 14%Hedge funds: 33%Private equity investments: 34%Real estate: 5%Bonds: 4%



The endowment’s annual payout rate is typically capped. Harvard’s payout rate was 5.2% in 2021, which totaled $2.0 billion. Distributions provided 35% of total revenue for 2021, and another 10% of revenue came from current gifts of philanthropy. Cash gifts to the endowment totaled $541 million. Approximately 70% of the annual distribution is restricted to specific departments, programs, or other purposes. In other words, the funds need to be spent according to the terms established by the donors. Only 30% of the fund can be used by Harvard for flexible spending.



In 2021, Harvard paid nearly $161 million from the endowment to undergraduates for scholarships. Approximately 55% of the students receive need-based scholarships and pay, on average, $12,700 per year to attend Harvard. Of the students who receive scholarships, 20% pay nothing to attend Harvard College.



From an investment perspective, Harvard’s endowment fund has consistently produced strong returns over the long term, although ongoing infusions of capital in the form of new endowments also drives total growth.
What Is the Endowment Effect?  

The endowment effect refers to an emotional bias that causes individuals to value an owned object higher, often irrationally, than its market value.





Key Takeaways

The endowment effect describes a circumstance in which an individual places a higher value on an object that they already own than the value they would place on that same object if they did not own it.Endowment effect can be clearly seen with items that have an emotional or symbolic significance to the individual.Research has identified "ownership" and "loss aversion" as the two main psychological reasons causing the endowment effect.The endowment effect is closely tied to marketing in which companies often try to take advantage of this cognitive bias.Investors can overcome the endowment effect by having a clear investment strategy with a plan on when to sell specific investments.


   Understanding the Endowment Effect  

In behavioral finance, the endowment effect, or divestiture aversion as it is sometimes called, describes a circumstance in which an individual places a higher value on an object that they already own than the value they would place on that same object if they did not own it.



This type of behavior is typically triggered with items that have an emotional or symbolic significance to the individual. However, it can also occur merely because the individual possesses the object in question.


   Example of the Endowment Effect  

Let's look at an example. An individual obtained a case of wine that was relatively modest in terms of price. If an offer were made at a later date to acquire that wine for its current market value, which is marginally higher than the price that the individual paid for it, the endowment effect might compel the owner to refuse this offer, despite the monetary gains that would be realized by accepting the offer.



So, rather than take payment for the wine, the owner may choose to wait for an offer that meets their expectation or drink it themselves. The actual ownership has resulted in the individual overvaluing the wine. Similar reactions, driven by the endowment effect, can influence the owners of collectible items, or even companies, who perceive their possession to be more important than any market valuation.



Under the restrictive assumptions of rational choice theory, which undergirds modern microeconomic and finance theory, such behavior is irrational. Behavioral economists and behavior finance scholars explain such allegedly irrational behavior as a result of some sort of cognitive bias that warps the individuals thinking.



According to these theories, a rational individual should value the case of wine at exactly the current market price, since they could purchase an identical case of wine at that price if they were to sell or otherwise give up the case that they own already.






The endowment effect makes investors hold onto specific securities longer than they should. Without a clear exit plan, investors are strongly susceptible to the endowment effect.


   The Endowment Effect Triggers  

Research has identified two main psychological reasons as to what causes the endowment effect:



Ownership: Studies have repeatedly shown that people will value something that they already own more than a similar item they do not own, much in line with the adage: "A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush." It does not matter if the object in question was purchased or received as a gift; the effect still holds.
Loss aversion: This is the main reason that investors tend to stick with certain unprofitable assets, or trades, as the prospect of divesting at the prevailing market value does not meet their perceptions of its value.


   The Endowment Effect Impact  

People who inherit shares of stock from deceased relatives exhibit the endowment effect by refusing to divest those shares, even if they do not fit with that individual's risk tolerance or investment goals, and may adversely impact a portfolio's diversification. Determining whether or not the addition of these shares negatively impacts the overall asset allocation is appropriate to reduce negative outcomes.



The endowment effect bias applies outside of finance as well. A well-known study that exemplifies the endowment effect, and has been replicated successfully, starts with a college professor who teaches a class with two sections, one that meets Mondays and Wednesdays and another that meets Tuesdays and Thursdays.



The professor hands out a brand new coffee mug with the university's logo emblazoned on it to the Monday/Wednesday section for free as a gift, not making much of a big deal out of it. The Tuesday/Thursday section, on the other hand, receives nothing.



A week later, the professor asks all of the students to value the mug. The students who received the mug, on average, put a greater price tag on the mug than those who did not. When asked what would be the lowest selling price of the mug, the mug receiving students quote was consistently, and significantly, higher than the quote from the students who did not receive a mug.


   The Endowment Effect and Marketing  

Many companies strive to exploit the endowment effect for their benefit. For instance, they may devise strategies that attract customers, then leverage the endowment effect knowing it will be difficult for a consumer to leave.



For example, consider how companies can offer free trials to consumers to try their products. When people try a product, they may become attached to it and see it as something they own, making them more likely to purchase it. This same emotion may be felt during limited-time offers, where consumers are faced with a sense of urgency to buy a product, then forge a relationship with that good.



Companies often personalize products or services to make consumers feel a sense of ownership over them. This is done to enhance a sense of ownership and attachment. This same attachment can be felt through loyalty programs that offer rewards or incentives for repeat purchases. Last, companies often leverage social media to substantiate and prove how other users are attached to their products. Those that see this messaging may resonate with how other people are emotionally attached to goods and further enhance their own relationships.






Consider whether or not you would buy something you already own. If you wouldn't but aren't willing to sell the item, perhaps you overvalue something you currently own.


   How to Avoid the Endowment Effect  

An investor must be mindful in order to avoid the endowment effect. They must take deliberate action or take care to understand the assets they hold and the emotional ties they have to the goods.



First, investors must have a clear investment strategy. Having a clear investment strategy can help investors make objective decisions about when to buy and sell investments. By having a plan in place, investors can avoid getting emotionally attached to individual investments.



To make objective decisions, it's important to have clear criteria for when to buy and sell investments. This could include setting a target price, a time horizon, or specific performance metrics. Because it may be harder to sell the "winners", investors must have a specific plan in place and not get caught up in prior performance. Though an investor can always change the criteria it uses to buy and sell, investors are more susceptible to endowment risk should they not have a clear goal.



Investors should also continually review and rebalance their portfolio. By continually reviewing the investments within a portfolio, investors can more closely understand how the investment moves and strive to not be as emotionally attached. This also works to emphasize portfolio diversification; if an investor analyzes an investment as part of a larger portfolio, the investor can understand why an investment is being held and why it may be good time to sell.




How Does the Endowment Effect Effect Buyers?
The endowment effect doesn't just impact sellers. Buyers are often more willing to sell items for more money than what they would buy that same item for. For this reason, there is naturally dissonance between the prices offered and prices sought after for many types of trades.




Why Is It Called the Endowment Effect?
The term endowment effect was first used by the economist Richard Thaler. It was used in reference to the inertia related to consumer choices when goods included in their endowment were more highly valued than goods that were not.




What Is the Opposite of the Endowment Effect?
A phenomenon known as the reversed endowment effect is the opposite of the endowment effect. This term is used to describe a situation where people tend to have a preference to be rid of an undesirable item in exchange for an equally undesirable item.




Is Endowment Effect a Cognitive Bias?
Yes, the endowment effect is a cognitive bias that impacts how individuals feel about the goods they already possess. There is little to no rational in the endowment effect, as goods of equal value may not be seen or treated as such because of this cognitive bias.


   The Bottom Line  

The endowment effect is a term used to describe how individuals place more value in certain items, often things they own, compared to items they do not own. This cognitive bias often translates to people being willing to sell at higher prices and buy at lower prices for goods of equal value. Investors can overcome the endowment effect by having a clear investment plan including an exit strategy and overarching portfolio goal.
What Is Energy Return on Investment (EROI)?  

Energy Return on Investment (EROI) is a ratio for describing a measure of energy produced in relation to the energy used to create it. For instance the ratio would illustrate how much energy is used to locate, extract, deliver, and refine crude oil relative to how much useable energy is created.



The energy return on investment (EROI) is a key determinant of the price of energy because sources of energy that can be tapped relatively cheaply will allow the price to remain low.





Key Takeaways

Energy Return on Investment (EROI) is the amount of energy expended to produce a certain amount of net energy.EROI is an important determinant in energy commodity and electricity pricing.EROI decreases when energy becomes scarcer and more difficult to extract or produce.


   Understanding Energy Return on Investment  

EROI is important because if the cost of an energy plant is more than the revenues gained from selling electricity, that plant is not economically viable. EROI can also help organizations and governments compare different energy sources for profitability, such as nuclear vs. solar power.



When the EROI is large, that means that producing energy from that source is relatively easy and cost-effective. However, when the number is small, obtaining energy from that source is difficult and expensive. For example, when the ratio is 1, there is no return on energy invested. According to the World Nuclear Association, the break-even number is 7.



In its simplest form, EROI is calculated as:



EROI = Energy Output / Energy Input 



However, there are dramatic differences in how certain steps of the input process are measured. This measurement is complex because the inputs are diverse and there is uncertainty as to how far back they should be taken in the analysis. In addition to energy costs, there are other external costs that need to be considered with respect to energy production such as those associated with the environment and people's health.



Generally, we can expect that the highest available EROI energy sources will be used first because these offer the most energy for the least effort. A net energy gain is achieved by expending less energy when attempting to acquire and use a source of energy. EROI analysis is considered part of a life-cycle analysis.


   Types of Energy Sources Where EROI Is Measured  

There are a number of consumable energy sources where EROI is determined for efficiency and cost analysis. These energy sources include oil, biofuels, geothermal energy, nuclear fuels, coal, solar, wind, and hydroelectric.



The average EROI across all generating technologies is about 40 for the United States, according to the World Nuclear Association pages cited above. The Association cites a study by Weissback et al. (2013), which states that “The results show that nuclear, hydro, coal, and natural gas power systems (in this order) are one order of magnitude more effective than photovoltaics and wind power." 



According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, fossil fuels such as coal, petroleum, and natural gas, have been the major sources of energy since the late 1800s. Until the 1990s, hydropower and solid biomass were the most used renewable energy resources. Since then, the amount of energy coming from biofuels, solar, and wind energy has increased.



The EROI for oil has decreased dramatically over the past hundred years. The amount of energy required to produce one barrel of oil has decreased as more efficient methods, such as fracking, have been introduced.
What Is an Energy Risk Professional (ERP)?  

Energy Risk Professional (ERP) is a professional designation awarded by the Global Association of Risk Professionals (GARP) to individuals who work in the oil, coal, natural gas, and alternative energy industries. As of 2021, the designation will no longer be offered.





Key Takeaways

Energy Risk Professional (ERP) is a professional designation provided by the Global Association of Risk Professionals (GARP).The ERP designation is completed by individuals working in the oil, coal, natural gas, and alternative energy industries.The ERP designation equates to advanced degrees in different nations, such as a master's degree in the United States.The purpose of the ERP exam is to gauge the ability of an applicant to manage the physical and financial risks inherent in the world of energy.GARP announced in 2020 that the designation will no longer be offered and that 2021 will be the last year exams are conducted; only for those who have completed Part I of the two-part exam.


   Understanding an Energy Risk Professional (ERP)  

People seeking this designation must complete a rigorous self-study program, pass a 180-question, eight-hour exam, have at least two years of qualifying work experience, and agree to the Global Association of Risk Professionals' professional code of conduct.



Successful applicants earn the right to use the Energy Risk Professional (ERP) designation with their names, which can improve job opportunities, professional reputation, and pay. The Energy Risk Professional (ERP) program is developed by seasoned energy professionals to teach applicants about real-world scenarios.



GARP announced in 2020 that 2021 will be the last year the ERP exam will be offered as interest in the ERP designation has decreased, according to a study by the organization. As a result, it will no longer be possible to obtain an Energy Risk Professional (ERP) designation.﻿﻿


   Attributes of an Energy Risk Professional (ERP)  

The study program to become an Energy Risk Professional (ERP) covers physical energy markets, financial trading instruments, valuation and structuring of energy transactions, risk management in financial trading, financial disclosure, accounting, and compliance.



Individuals with the Energy Risk Professional (ERP) designation may work for banks, academic institutions, consulting firms, asset management firms, and a wide variety of other organizations concerned with energy risk.



The designation equates to a specific degree level. For example, the ERP designation is equivalent to an American master's degree, the Regulated Qualifications Framework Level 7 in the United Kingdom, the Ontario Qualifications Framework Level 12 in Canada, and the Hong Kong Qualifications Framework Level 6 in Hong Kong. Degree equivalents also apply in the European Union, Singapore, Australia, India, the United Arab Emirates, and South Africa.﻿﻿



To maintain the ERP designation, members must participate in the Continuing Professional Development (CRP) program. This program ensures that professionals remain knowledgeable about industry trends, developments, and best practices. Available to members are podcasts, training courses, and articles.


   The Energy Risk Professional (ERP) Exam  

The Energy Risk Professional (ERP) Exam is taken to earn the ERP designation. It is designed to measure a candidate's knowledge of the major energy markets and gauge their ability to manage the physical and financial risks inherent in the complex world of energy.



The exam provides a comprehensive overview of all major energy markets, including the upstream and downstream processes associated with each, the trading and structuring of diverse energy commodities, and the identification, measurement, and management of key physical and financial risks.



Candidates must successfully pass two multiple-choice exams: ERP Exam Part I and ERP Exam Part II. Part I consists of 80 questions, to be completed within four hours. This exam consists of questions testing the candidate's knowledge of physical energy commodity markets. Part II consists of 60 questions, also to be completed within 4 hours. Part II evaluates the test-takers' knowledge of the application of energy derivatives and risk mitigation.


   Additional Exam Details  

Cost: As the exam is no longer offered, only Part II of the exam will be offered in 2021 for those who have completed Part I. The cost is $475 with an early registration cost of $350.﻿﻿
Prerequisites: None
Pass Grade: Pass/Fail
Work Experience: Two years of relevant work experience after the exam
Exam Date(s): May 15, 2021
Exam Results: Usually provided within six weeks
Official Exam Website: http://www.garp.org/erp/


   What the Energy Risk Professional (ERP) Exam Covers  

Part I of the exam focuses on the following:



Crude oil and refined product markets
Natural gas and coal markets
Electricity markets and power generation



Part II of the exam focuses on the following:



Financial energy productsRisk assessment and energy price modelingRisk management tools﻿﻿
What Is the Energy Sector?  

The energy sector is a category of stocks that relate to producing or supplying energy. The energy sector or industry includes companies involved in the exploration and development of oil or gas reserves, oil and gas drilling, and refining. The energy industry also includes integrated power utility companies such as renewable energy and coal.





Key Takeaways

The energy sector includes corporations that primarily are in the business of producing or supplying energy such as fossil fuels or renewables.The energy sector has been an important driver of industrial growth over the past century, providing fuel to power the rest of the economy.Companies in the energy industry are classified based on how the energy is sourced such as non-renewables or fossil fuels and renewables such as solar.


   Understanding the Energy Sector  

​The energy sector is a large and all-encompassing term that describes a complex and interrelated network of companies, directly and indirectly, involved in the production and distribution of energy needed to power the economy and facilitate the means of production and transportation.



Companies within the energy sector are involved in various types of energy. For the most part, energy companies are categorized based on how the energy that they produce is sourced and will typically fall into one of two categories:


  Non-renewable  

Petroleum products and oilNatural gasGasolineDiesel fuelHeating oilNuclearCoal


  Renewable  

HydropowerBiofuels, such as ethanolWind powerSolar powerHydroelectric



The energy industry also includes secondary sources such as electricity. Energy prices—along with the earnings performance of energy producers—are largely driven by the supply and demand for worldwide energy.



Oil and gas producers tend to perform well during periods of elevated oil and gas prices. However, energy companies earn less when the price of energy commodities falls. Oil refiners, on the other hand, benefit from the falling cost of feedstock to produce petroleum products like gasoline when crude oil prices drop. Furthermore, the energy industry is sensitive to political events, which historically have led to volatility—wild fluctuations—in the price of oil.



Some of the largest companies in the U.S. energy sector include Exxon Mobil (XOM) and Chevron (CVX), both of which are large international integrated oil companies. In 2020, Peabody Energy (BTU) was America's largest coal producer measured by tons of output.






In 2021, petroleum (36%) was the most consumed energy source in the U.S., followed by natural gas (32%), renewable energy (12%), coal (11%), and nuclear electric power (8%).


   Types of Energy-Sector Companies  

Below are some of the types of companies found in the energy industry. Each has a distinct role to play in bringing energy to businesses and consumers.


  Oil and gas drilling and production  

These are the companies that drill, pump, and produce oil and natural gas. Production typically involves pulling oil out of the ground.


  Pipeline and refining  

Oil and natural gas must be delivered from the production site to a refinery to be refined into a final product, such as gasoline. Companies within this portion of the energy sector are called midstream providers.


  Mining companies  

Coal companies can be classified as energy companies since coal is used to power plants, including nuclear.


  Renewable energy  

Clean energy has gained traction and investment dollars over the years and is likely to be a growing part of the energy sector in the future. Examples of renewable energy include wind and solar.


  Chemicals  

Some companies specialize in refining oil and gas into specialty chemicals, although many larger oil producers such as Exxon Mobil are integrated energy producers, meaning they produce multiple types of energy and control the entire process.






The Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act of 2021 provides support for parts of the energy industry. In particular, part of the $550 billion in funding will be allocated to electric grid infrastructure and power lines, as well as expanding clean energy.


   ​Examples of Energy-Sector Investments  

Investors have numerous choices in the energy industry, including equities of energy companies, mutual funds, and ETFs, as well as the ability to buy the commodities.



Exchange-traded funds (ETFs) are a basket of investments, such as stocks, that track an underlying index. Mutual funds, on the other hand, are a portfolio of stocks or investments that are selected and managed by a portfolio manager.



​There are a number of energy-related ETFs that can give retail investors exposure to the energy industry. Investors can choose which part of the value chain they want with any number of funds. Below are a few examples of energy ETFs:



The Energy Select Sector SPDR ETF (XLE) is a broad-based ETF that provides exposure to energy companies across the sector. Oil producers like Exxon Mobil and Chevron are in the XLE as well as technology suppliers like Schlumberger (SLB).
The SPDR S&P Oil & Gas Exploration & Production ETF (XOP) provides investors with exposure to oil and gas exploration companies.
The Invesco Solar ETF (TAN) provides investors access to alternative energy investments.



How investors choose to invest in the energy sector will likely depend on their preferences and specific views about the growth and earnings prospects of the various companies. The energy industry is more extensive and diversified than merely the oil and gas industry. Many investors believe renewable and alternative energy sources will play an important role in the future, especially as the demand for electric cars continues to grow.




What Is the Energy Sector Responsible For?
The energy sector plays a crucial role in the economy. Aside from powering homes, transportation, and factories, energy sources are also a component in many of the products we use on a daily basis.




Which Are the Main Energy Sectors?
The Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS) breaks down the energy sector into two industries: “energy equipment and services” and “oil, gas, and consumable fuels.” There are then various sub-sectors:Oil and gas drillingOil and gas equipment & servicesIntegrated oil and gasOil and gas exploration & productionOil and gas refining & marketingOil and gas storage & transportationCoal and consumable fuels




What Is the Difference Between the Energy Sector and the Utility Sector?
The energy sector primarily consists of companies that play a role in extracting, refining, or producing sources of energy. Utility companies, on the other hand, focus on providing their customers with electricity, water, and other public utilities. Both of these sectors offer customers electricity in some way. However, their roles are different, with the components of the energy sector responsible for providing the energy that utility companies then sell to the public.


   The Bottom Line  

The energy sector is a vast one. It covers various energy sources, including natural gas, electricity, petroleum, coal, and renewable sources—and phases of getting energy to market, from extraction all the way to transportation of the finished product and marketing.



This means the companies classified as belonging to the energy sector have prospects that can differ considerably. Essentially, the only thing that ties them all together is that they are responsible in some way for bringing a form of energy to market.
What Is an Engagement Letter?  

An engagement letter is a written agreement that describes the business relationship to be entered into by a client and a company. The letter details the scope of the agreement, its terms, and costs. The purpose of an engagement letter is to set expectations on both sides of the agreement.





Key Takeaways

An engagement letter defines a business relationship between two parties.A letter of engagement limits the responsibilities of the company, directly or by inference.A wide range of businesses including attorneys, auditors, accountants, and consultants use engagement letters routinely, whether their clients are individuals or large corporations.


   How an Engagement Letter Works  

A letter of engagement serves the same purpose as a contract between two parties. However, its format is less formal than a contract and it generally avoids legal jargon.



The letter is intended to briefly but accurately describe the services to be delivered, the terms and conditions, the deadline or deadlines, and the compensation. A letter of engagement is a legal document and binding in a business deal.






An engagement letter is less formal than a contract, but still a legally binding document that can be used in a court of law.



An engagement letter also serves to limit the scope of the company's services. For example, when an individual or business secures the services of an attorney, the letter might describe the specific purpose or area of expertise in which their services can be used.



A contractor who hires an attorney to draw up a land purchase cannot call the attorney for advice about his divorce. The engagement letter will not state that fact as baldly, but the meaning will be clear.






An engagement letter doesn't become legally binding until it is signed by all parties.


   Advantages of an Engagement Letter  

Setting expectations is important. The client gets the reassurance of knowing when a service will be completed, and how much it will cost. The letter also makes it clear if other costs are involved that are not covered in the agreement, such as required software that must be purchased separately by the client.



The business has set boundaries on the work that is expected to be performed. This is intended to prevent "scope creep," something that every tax accountant and attorney dreads. The letter may also cite services that lie outside the current agreement but may be added in the future as needed, with an estimate of the costs of these additions.



An engagement letter may include a clause regarding mediation or binding arbitration for the relationship. This clause provides guidance for managing any disputes arising between the parties.


   Special Considerations  

If the relationship is long-term, many companies require their engagement letter to be updated and signed again by the client annually.



This allows for any changes in the business relationship over time and strengthens the legal standing of the document. It also reminds the client of the scope of the agreement, perhaps forestalling "scope creep."




Who Prepares the Letter of Engagement?
The engagement letter is drafted by the company rendering the service, often with the help of a lawyer.




Is an Engagement Letter the Same as a Contract?
Engagement letters are less formal and generally shorter than a traditional contract. However, they also share some important traits, such as being legally binding and designed to reduce liability.




When Should an Engagement Letter Be Sent?
Engagement letters need to be presented to the client at the beginning of the relationship before work commences. They should also periodically be reissued, especially when the scope of services changes.




How Often Should Engagement Letters Be Updated?
To play it safe, companies generally require their engagement letter to be updated and signed on an annual basis. A new one should always be issued if the scope of services changes. However, even if the agreement remains the same, it can still be wise to redraft an engagement letter to increase the legal standing of the document.


   The Bottom Line  

Companies offering a service can face all sorts of problems if they don’t lay out their boundaries in a written, legally binding contract. Engagement letters essentially help protect firms from lawsuits while offering customers clarity over what services they can expect to receive and when. In short, they seek to avoid misunderstandings and basically function as a cheaper, simpler alternative to a regular contract.
What Is Engel's Law?  

Engel's Law is an economic theory put forth in 1857 by Ernst Engel, a German statistician. It states that the percentage of income allocated for food purchases decreases as a household's income rises, while the percentage spent on other things (such as education and recreation) increases.





Key Takeaways

Engel's Law is a 19th-century observation that as household income increases, the percentage of income that a household spends on food will decline.In part, this is because the amount and quality of food that a family can consume is fairly limited.As food spending declines on a relative basis, households spend a greater portion of their income on other things, such as education and recreation.


   Understanding Engel's Law  

In the mid 19th century, Ernst Engel published a study based on the expenditures of Belgian families. He divided them into three groups: "on relief," "poor but independent," and "comfortable." He then broke down their expenditures for food, clothing, housing, education, recreation, and other spending categories.



Engel found that the poorer the group, the greater the percentage of their budget that went to food, while a lesser percentage went, for example, to clothing and education.



That finding soon became known as Engel's Law. English translations of Engle's Law vary slightly, but are usually expressed as either:



"The poorer a family, the greater the proportion of its total expenditure that must be devoted to the provision of food."



Or, "The poorer is a family, the greater is the proportion of the total outgo which must be used for food. . . . The proportion of the outgo used for food, other things being equal, is the best measure of the material standard of living of a population."



Engel's insight was extended to whole countries by arguing that the wealthier a nation, the smaller the proportion of its labor and capital that will have to go toward food production and the more it can devote to manufacturing and services, resulting in a more advanced economy.


   Engel's Law Today  

Engel's Law remains a fundamental principle of economics today and underlies many economic and social policies around the world, including anti-poverty programs.



In the 20th and 21st centuries, expenditure categories have grown to include many things that weren't around in Engel's day (automobiles, health insurance, and mobile phones, for example), but the principle remains the same: Once families have met their food needs, they have money to spend on other things, some of which (education, for example) may lead to even greater financial security and affluence.


   Example of Engel's Law  

Suppose a family with an annual household income of $50,000 spends 25% of their income on food, or $12,500. If their income doubles to $100,000, it is unlikely that they will spend $25,000 (25%) on food, although they may spend somewhat more than they had been spending.



As the late MIT economist Paul A. Samuelson points out in his widely used college textbook, Economics:



"As income increases, expenditures on many food items go up. People eat more and eat better. They shift away from cheap, bulky carbohydrates to more expensive meats and proteins—and to milk, fruit, vegetables, and labor-saving processed foods. There are, however, limits to the amount of money that people will spend on food when their incomes rise."




What Is an Engel Curve?
An Engel Curve is a graphic representation of Engel's Law, showing the relationship between household income and spending on a particular good or service.




What Is Engel's Coefficient?
The Engel coefficient, based on Engel's Law, is a commonly used measure of a nation's standard of living. Some countries also use it to set their poverty line. The coefficient is arrived at by dividing food expenditures by total expenditures.




What Is Income Elasticity?
Income elasticity of demand is a measure of how demand for a particular product or service will rise as income rises. Luxury products, for example, have a higher elasticity of demand than so-called "normal goods" like food. Some items, referred to by economists as "inferior goods," see a decline in demand as income rises.


   The Bottom Line  

Engel's Law states that as a household's (or a nation's) income rises, the percentage of income spent on food decreases and the percentage spent on other goods and services increases. Developed in the mid-19th century by the German statistician Ernst Engel, it remains influential in economics and public policy today.
What Is Enhanced Oil Recovery (EOR)?  

Enhanced oil recovery (EOR), also known as “tertiary recovery,” is a process for extracting oil that has not already been retrieved through the primary or secondary oil recovery techniques.



Although the primary and secondary recovery techniques rely on the pressure differential between the surface and the underground well, enhanced oil recovery functions by altering the chemical composition of the oil itself in order to make it easier to extract.





Key Takeaways


Enhanced oil recovery (EOR) is the practice of extracting oil from a well that has already gone through the primary and secondary stages of oil recovery.
Depending on the price of oil, EOR techniques may not be economically viable.
EOR techniques can affect the environment negatively, though new innovations in the sector may help reduce this impact in the future.



   How Enhanced Oil Recovery Works  

Enhanced oil recovery techniques are complex and expensive and therefore are employed only when the primary and secondary recovery techniques have exhausted their usefulness. Indeed, depending on factors such as the cost of oil, it may not be economical to employ EOR at all. In those cases, oil and gas might be left in the reservoir because it is simply not profitable to extract the remaining amounts.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   Three Main Types of EOR Techniques  

In the first type of technique, gases are forcefully injected into the well in a way that both forces the oil to the surface and reduces its viscosity. The less viscous the oil, the easier it flows and the more cheaply it can be extracted. Although various gases can be used in this process, carbon dioxide (CO2) is used most often. 



This specific use of carbon dioxide likely could continue or even increase in the future, as recent advances make it possible to transport CO2 in the form of foams and gels. To some, this could be a significant improvement as it would allow CO2 injections to be utilized in areas far removed from naturally occurring carbon dioxide reservoirs.






On the other hand, there are grave concerns about the continued use of carbon dioxide because of its harmful effects on the environment. Currently, most countries are seeking alternative modes of energy that are more sustainable than CO2.



Other common EOR techniques include pumping steam into the well in order to heat the oil and make it less viscous. Similar outcomes can be achieved through so-called “fire flooding,” which involves lighting a fire around the periphery of the oil reservoir in order to drive the remaining oil close to the well. 



Finally, various polymers and other chemical structures can be injected into the reservoir to reduce viscosity and increase pressure, although these techniques are often prohibitively expensive.


   Using Enhanced Oil Recovery Methods  

Petroleum companies and scientists look to EOR for its potential to prolong the life of wells in proven or probable oil fields. Proven reserves are those with a greater than 90% chance that oil will be recovered, and probable reserves have a more than 50% chance of recovering petroleum.



Unfortunately, EOR techniques can produce negative environmental side effects, such as causing harmful chemicals to leak into the groundwater. One recent technique that might help reduce these environmental risks is called plasma pulsing. Developed in Russia, plasma pulse technology involves radiating oil fields with low-energy emissions, thereby lowering their viscosity much like conventional EOR techniques.



Because plasma pulsing does not require injecting gases, chemicals, or heat into the ground, it may prove to be less environmentally harmful than the other current methods of oil recovery.
What Is an Enrolled Agent?  

An enrolled agent (EA) is a tax professional authorized by the United States government to represent taxpayers in matters regarding the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). EAs must pass an examination or have sufficient experience as an IRS employee and pass a background check. Enrolled agents first appeared in 1884 due to issues arising with Civil War loss claims.





Key Takeaways

Enrolled agents are federally authorized to represent taxpayers before the IRS.Prospective enrolled agents must either pass the Special Enrollment Examination (SEE) or meet minimum IRS experience requirements.Fraudulent claims submitted for Civil War losses prompted the creation of the enrolled agent.Enrolled agents also provide tax planning and preparation.Although enrolled agents may represent individuals and businesses before the IRS, they are not IRS employees.


   Understanding Enrolled Agents  

An enrolled agent is a federally licensed tax practitioner who has unlimited rights to represent taxpayers before the IRS for any issues relating to collections, audits, or tax appeals. According to the National Association of Enrolled Agents (NAEA)—the organization that represents licensed EAs—they are allowed to advise, represent, and prepare tax returns for people, corporations, partnerships, estates, trusts, and anything else that is required to report to the IRS.


   History of Enrolled Agency  

In the 1880s, there were inadequate attorney standards, and Ccertified public accountants (CPAs) were not in existence. The enrolled agent profession began after fraudulent claims were submitted for Civil War losses. Congress took action to regulate EAs to prepare Civil War claims and represent citizens in their interactions with the Treasury Department. In 1884, the Horse Act was signed into law by President Chester Arthur to establish and standardize enrolled agents.



In 1913, when the 16th Amendment was passed, EA duties expanded to include tax preparation and resolving taxpayer disputes with the IRS. In 1972, a group of enrolled agents collaborated to form the NAEA to represent the interests of EAs and increase the professional development of its members.


   Requirements of Enrolled Agents  

EAs are not required to get college degrees. Some former IRS employees with five years of taxation experience may apply to become an enrolled agent without taking the exam. Non-exempt persons must take and pass the Special Enrollment Examination (SEE). All enrolled agents must complete 72 hours of continuing education every 36 months. CPAs and attorneys may serve as enrolled agents without taking the exam.



Enrolled agents are the only tax professionals who do not require a state license. However, they have a federal license and can represent a taxpayer in any state. They must abide by the specifications of the Treasury Department's Circular 230, which provides the guidelines governing enrolled agents. Enrolled agents that have an NAEA membership are also subject to a code of ethics and rules of professional conduct.


   Benefits of Using an Enrolled Agent  

NAEA members must complete 30 hours per year of continuing education or 90 hours every three years, which is significantly more than the IRS prerequisite. Enrolled agents offer tax planning, tax preparation, and representation services for businesses and individuals.﻿﻿


   Enrolled Agents vs. Other Tax Professionals  

Enrolled agents are required to prove their proficiency in every aspect of taxes, ethics, and representation, unlike CPAs and attorneys, who may not specialize in taxes.



EAs are not employees of the IRS. In addition, they cannot display their credentials when representing clients and advertising their services. They cannot use the term certified as part of a title or infer an employee relationship with the IRS.


   Outlook for Enrolled Agents  

The hiring of tax examiners is projected to decline 4% from 2020 to 2030 as the growth of the tax examiner industry is closely tied to changes in federal, state, and local government budgets. The growth of the enrolled agent industry depends on industry rule changes and the demand for tax services. However, there is a growing need for EAs in private and public accounting firms, law firms, corporations, local and state government agencies, and banks.




How Do I Become an Enrolled Agent?
To become an Enrolled agent, a person must obtain a preparer tax identification number, pass the Special Enrollment Exam, enroll as an agent, and be deemed suitable (e.g., background check) to perform as an Enrolled Agent. Former IRS employees with at least 5 years of experience as field tax professionals.




What Does an Enrolled Agent Do?
An Enrolled Agent is authorized by the U.S. federal government to represent taxpayers before the IRS. They may also serve as tax advisors, planners, and preparers.




How Is an Enrolled Agent Different from a CPA?
While an Enrolled Agent (EA) and a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) are skilled and authorized tax professionals. However, an Enrolled Agent is specifically focused on taxation, whereas a CPA can specialize in taxation and other financial and accounting matters. A person may be an EA and a CPA; however, one appointment does not necessarily qualify the person to serve as the other. CPAs' duties and professional offerings are broader than an EA's.
What Was Enron?  

Enron was an energy-trading and utility company based in Houston, Texas, that perpetrated one of the biggest accounting frauds in history. Enron's executives employed accounting practices that falsely inflated the company's revenues and, for a time, making it the seventh-largest corporation in the United States. Once the fraud came to light, the company quickly unraveled, and it filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in December 2001.





Key Takeaways

Enron was an energy company that began to trade extensively in energy derivatives markets.The company hid massive trading losses, ultimately leading to one of the largest accounting scandals and bankruptcy in recent history.Enron executives used fraudulent accounting practices to inflate the company's revenues and hide debt in its subsidiaries.The SEC, credit rating agencies, and investment banks were also accused of negligence—and, in some cases, outright deception—that enabled the fraud.As a result of Enron, Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to hold corporate executives more accountable for their company's financial statements.


   Understanding Enron  

Enron was an energy company formed in 1986 following a merger between Houston Natural Gas Company and Omaha-based InterNorth Incorporated. After the merger, Kenneth Lay, who had been the chief executive officer (CEO) of Houston Natural Gas, became Enron's CEO and chair.



Lay quickly rebranded Enron into an energy trader and supplier. Deregulation of the energy markets allowed companies to place bets on future prices. In 1990, Lay created the Enron Finance Corporation and appointed Jeffrey Skilling, whose work as a McKinsey & Company consultant had impressed Lay, to head the new corporation. Skilling was then one of the youngest partners at McKinsey.



Enron provided a variety of energy and utility services around the world. Its company divided operations in several major departments including:



Enron Online: In late 1999, Enron build out its web-based system to enhance customer functionality market reach. Wholesale Services: Enron offered a variety of energy delivery solutions, with its most robust industry being natural gas. In North America, Enron claimed to deliver almost double the amount of electricity compared to their second tier of competition.Energy Services: Enron's retail unit provided energy around the world, including to Europe in which it expanded retail operations to in 2001.Broadband Services: Enron provided logistical service solutions between content providers and last-mile energy distributors.Transportation Services: Enron developed an innovative, efficient pipeline operation to network capabilities and operate pooling points to connect to third-parties.



However, by leveraging special purpose vehicles, special purpose entities, mark to market accounting, and financial reporting loopholes, Enron became one of the most successful companies in the world. Upon discover of the fraud, the company subsequently collapsed. Enron shares traded as high as $90.75 before the fraud was discovered, but plummeted to around $0.26 in the sell-off after it was revealed.






The former Wall Street darling quickly became a symbol of modern corporate crime. Enron was one of the first big-name accounting scandals, but it was soon followed by the uncovering of frauds at other companies such as WorldCom and Tyco International.


   The Enron Scandal  

Prior to coming to light, Enron was internally fabricating financial records and falsifying the success of its company. Though the entity did achieve operational success during the 1990s, the company's misdeeds were finally exposed in 2001.


  Pre-Scandal  

Leading up to the turn of the millennium, Enron's business appeared to be thriving. The company became the largest natural gas provider in North American in 1992, and the company launched EnronOnline, its trading website allowing for better contract management just months before 2000. The company also had rapidly been expanding into international markets, led by the 1998 merger with Wessex Water.



Enron's stock price mostly followed the S&P 500 for most of the 1990's. However, expectations for the company began to soar. In 1999, the company's stock increased 56%. In 2000, it increased an additional 87%. Both returns widely beat broad market returns, and the company was soon trading at a 70x price-earnings ratio.


  Early Signs of Trouble  

In February 2001, Kenneth Lay stepped down as Chief Executive Officer and was replaced by Jeffrey Skilling. A little more than six months later, Skilling stepped down as CEO in August 2001 with Lay taking over the role again.



Around this time, Enron Broadband reported massive losses. In the company's Q2 2001 earnings report, Lay revealed "in contrast to our extremely strong energy results, this was a difficult quarter in our broadband businesses." In this quarter, the Broadband Services department reported a financial loss of $102 million.



Also around this time, Lay sold 93,000 shares of Enron stock for roughly $2 million while still telling employees via e-mail to continuing buying the stock and predicting significantly higher stock prices. In total, Lay was eventually found to have sold over 350,000 Enron shares for total proceeds greater than $20 million.



During this time, Sherron Watkins had expressed concerns regarding Enron's accounting practices. A Vice President for Enron, she wrong an anonymous letter to Lay expressing her concerns. Watkins and Lay eventually met to discuss the matters in which Watkins delivered a six-page report detailing her concerns. The concerns were presented to an outside law firm in addition to Enron's accounting firm; both agreed there were no issues to be found.



By October 2001, Enron had reported a third quarter loss of $618 million. Enron announced it would need to restate its financial statements from 1997 to 2000 to correct accounting violations.





$63.4 billion

Enron's $63.4 billion bankruptcy was the biggest on record at the time.


  Bankruptcy  

On Nov. 28, 2001, credit rating agencies reduced Enron's credit rating to junk status, effectively solidifying the company's path to bankruptcy. On the same day, Dynegy, a fellow energy company Enron was attempting to merge with, decided to nix all future conversations and opted against any merger agreement. By the end of the day, Enron's stock price had dropped to $0.61.



Enron Europe was the first domino, filing for bankruptcy after close of business on Nov. 30th. The rest of Enron followed suit on Dec. 2. Early the following year, Enron dismissed Arthur Andersen as its auditor, citing that the auditor had yielded advice to shred evidence and destroy documents.



In 2006, the company sold its last business, Prisma Energy. The next year, the company changed its name to Enron Creditors Recovery Corporation with the intention of repaying back the remaining creditors and open liabilities as part of the bankruptcy process.


  Post Bankruptcy/Criminal Charges  

After emerging from bankruptcy in 2004, the new board of directors sued 11 financial institutions involved in helping conceal the fraudulent business practices of Enron executives. Enron collected nearly $7.2 billion from these financial institutions as part of legal settlements. The banks included the Royal Bank of Scotland, Deutsche Bank, and Citigroup.



Kenneth Lay pleaded not guilty to eleven criminal charges. He was convicted of six counts of securities and wire fraud and was subject to a maximum of 45 years in prison. However, Lay died on July 5, 2006, before sentencing was to occur.



Jeff Skilling was convicted on 19 of the 28 counts of securities fraud he was charged with in addition to other charges on insider trading. He was sentenced to 24 years and four months in prison, though the U.S. Department of Justice reached a deal with Skilling in 2013 which resulted in ten years being cut off of his sentence.



Andy Fastow and his wife Lea both pleaded guilty to charges against them including money laundering, insider trading, fraud, and conspiracy. Fastow was sentenced to 10 years in prison with no parole in order to testify against other Enron executives. Fastow has since been released from prison.









Select Events, Enron Corp.




1990
Jeffrey Skilling (COO at the time) hires Andrew Fastow as CFO.


1993
Enron begins to use special-purpose entities and special purpose vehicles.


1994
Congress began allowing states to deregulate their electricity utilities.


1998
Enron merged with Wessex Water, a core asset of the new company by giving Enron greater international presence.


January 2000
Enron opens trading their own high-speed fiber-optic networks via Enron Broadband.


 Aug. 23, 2000
Enron stock reaches all time high. Intra-day trading reaches $90.75, closing at $90.00 per share.


Jan. 23, 2002
Kenneth Lay resigns as CEO; Jeffrey Skilling takes his place.


April 17, 2001
Enron reports a Q1 2001 profit of $536 million.


Aug. 14, 2001
Jeffrey Skilling resigns as CEO; Kenneth Lay takes his place back.


Aug. 15, 2001
Sherron Watkins sends an anonymous letter to Lay expressing concerns of internal accounting fraud. Enron's stock price had dropped to $42.


Aug. 20, 2001
Kenneth Lay sells 93,000 shares of Enron stock for roughly $2 million


Oct. 15, 2001
Vinson & Elkins, an independent law firm, concludes their review of Enron accounting practices. They found no wrongdoing.


Oct. 16, 2001
Enron reports a Q3 2001 loss of $618 million.


Oct. 22, 2001
The Securities and Exchange Commission opens a formal inquirity into the financial accounting processes of Enron.


Dec. 2, 2001
Enron files for bankruptcy protection.


2006
Enron's last business, Prisma Energy, is sold.


2007
Enron changes its name to Enron Creditors Recovery Corporation.


2008
Enron settles with financial institutions involved in the scandal, receiving settlement money to be distributed to creditors.





   Causes of the Enron Scandal  

Enron went to great lengths to enhance its financial statements, hide its fraudulent activity, and report complex organizational structures to both confuse investors and conceal facts. The causes of the Enron scandal include but are not limited to the factors below.


  Special Purpose Vehicles  

Enron devised a complex organizational structure leveraging special purpose vehicles (or special purpose entities). These entities would "transact" with Enron, allowing Enron to borrow money without disclosing the funds as debt on their balance sheet.



SPVs do provide a legitimate strategy does allow for companies to temporarily shield a primary company by having a sponsoring company possess assets. Then, the sponsor company can theoretically secure cheaper debt than the primary company (assuming the primary company may have credit issues). There are also legal protection and taxation benefits to this structure.



The primary issue with Enron was the lack of transparency surrounding the use of SPVs. The company would transfer its own stock to the SPV in exchange for cash or a note receivable. The SPV would then use the stock to hedge an asset against Enron's balance sheet. Once the company's stock started losing its value, it no longer provided sufficient collateral that could be exploited by being carried by an SPV.


  Inaccurate Financial Reporting Practices  

Enron inaccurately depicted many contracts or relationships with customers. By collaborating with external parties such its auditing firm, it was able to record transactions incorrectly, not only not in accordance with GAAP but also not in accord with agreed to contracts.



For example, Enron recorded one-time sales as recurring revenue. In addition, the company would intentionally maintain an expired deal or contract through a specific time period to avoid having to record a write-off during a given period.


  Poorly Constructed Compensation Agreements  

Many of Enron's financial incentive agreements with employees were driven on short-term sales and quantities of deals closed (without consideration for the long-term validity of the deal). In addition, many incentives did not factor in the actual cash flow from the sale. Employees also receive compensation tied to the success of the company's stock price, while upper management often received large bonuses tied to success in financial markets.



Part of this issue was the very rapid rise of Enron's equity success. On Dec. 31, 1999, the stock closed at $44.38. Just three months later, it closed on March 31, 2000 at $74.88. With the stock hitting $90 by the end of 2000, the massive profits some employees received only fueled further interest in obtaining equity positions in the company.


  Lack of Independent Oversight  

Many external parties learned to know Enron's fraudulent practices, but their financial involvement with the company likely caused them to not intervene. Arthur Andersen, Enron's accounting firm, received many jobs and financial compensation in return for their service. Investment bankers collected fees from Enron's financial deals. Buy-side analysts were often compensated to promote specific ratings in exchange for stronger relationships between Enron and those institutions.


  Unrealistic Market Expectations  

Both Enron Energy Services and Enron Broadband were poised to be successful due to the emergence of the Internet and heightened retail demand. However, Enron's over-optimism resulted in the company over-promising on services and timelines that were simply not realistic.


  Poor Corporate Governance  

The ultimate downfall of Enron was the result of overall poor corporate leadership and corporate governance. Former Vice President of Corporate Development Sherron Watkins is noted for speaking out about various financial treatments as they were occurring. However, top management and executives intentionally disregarded and ignored concerns. This tone from the top set the precedent across accounting, finance, sales, and operations.






In the early 1990's, Enron was the largest seller of natural gas in North America. Ten years later, the company no longer existed due to its accounting scandal.


   The Role of Mark-to-Market Accounting  

One additional cause of the Enron collapse was mark-to-market accounting. Mark to market accounting is a method of valuating a long-term contract using fair market value. At any point, the long-term contract or asset could fluctuate in value; in this case, the reporting company would simply "mark" their financial records up or down to reflect the prevailing market value.



There are two conceptual issues with mark-to-market accounting, both of which Enron took advantage of. First, mark-to-market accounting relies very heavily on management estimation. Consider a long-term, complex contracts requiring the international distribution of several forms of energy. Because these contracts were not standardized to common contracts, it was easy for Enron to artificially inflate the value of the contract because it was difficult to appropriate determine the market value.



Second, mark-to-market accounting requires companies to periodically evaluate the value and likelihood that revenue will be collected. Should companies fail to continually evaluate the value of the contract, it may easily overstate the expected revenue to be collected.



For Enron, mark-to-market accounting allowed the firm to recognize its multi-year contracts upfront and report 100% of income in the year the agreement was signed, not when the service would be provided or cash collected. This form of accounting allowed Enron to report unrealized gains that inflated its income statement, allowing the company to appear much more profitable than its cash flow truly was.


   What Happened to Enron  

The Enron bankruptcy, at $63.4 billion in assets, was the largest on record at the time. The company's collapse shook the financial markets and nearly crippled the energy industry. While high-level executives at the company concocted the fraudulent accounting schemes, financial and legal experts maintained that they would never have gotten away with it without outside assistance. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), credit rating agencies and investment banks were all accused of having a role in enabling Enron's fraud.



Initially, much of the finger-pointing was directed at the SEC, which the U.S. Senate found complicit for its systemic and catastrophic failure of oversight. The Senate's investigation determined that had the SEC reviewed any of Enron’s post-1997 annual reports, it would have seen the red flags and possibly prevented the enormous losses suffered by employees and investors.



The credit rating agencies were found to be equally complicit in their failure to conduct proper due diligence before issuing an investment-grade rating on Enron’s bonds just before its bankruptcy filing. Meanwhile, the investment banks—through manipulation or outright deception—had helped Enron receive positive reports from stock analysts, which promoted its shares and brought billions of dollars of investment into the company. It was a quid pro quo in which Enron paid the investment banks millions of dollars for their services in return for their backing.






Enron reported total company revenue of:$13.2 billion in 1996$20.3 billion in 1997$31.2 billion in 1998$40.1 billion in 1999$100.8 billion in 2000


   The Role of Enron's CEO  

By the time Enron started to collapse, Jeffrey Skilling was the firm's CEO. One of Skilling's key contributions to the scandal was to transition Enron's accounting from a traditional historical cost accounting method mark-to-market accounting for which the company received official SEC approval in 1992.



Skilling advised the firm's accountants to transfer debt off of Enron's balance sheet to create an artificial distance between the debt and the company that incurred it. Enron continued to use these accounting tricks to keep its debt hidden by transferring it to its subsidiaries on paper. Despite this, the company continued to recognize revenue earned by these subsidiaries. As such, the general public and, most importantly, shareholders were led to believe that Enron was doing better than it actually was, despite the severe violation of GAAP rules.



Skilling abruptly quit in August 2001 after less than a year as chief executive—and four months before the Enron scandal unraveled. According to reports, his resignation stunned Wall Street analysts and raised suspicions, despite his assurances at the time that his departure had “nothing to do with Enron.”



Both Skilling and Kenneth Lay were tried and found guilty of fraud and conspiracy in 2006. Other executives plead guilty. Lay died in prison shortly after sentencing and Skilling served twelve years, by far the longest sentence of any of the Enron defendants.


   The Legacy of Enron  

In the wake of the Enron scandal, the term "Enronomics" came to describe creative and often fraudulent accounting techniques that involve a parent company making artificial, paper-only transactions with its subsidiaries to hide losses the parent company has suffered through other business activities.



Parent company Enron had hidden its debt by transferring it (on paper) to wholly-owned subsidiaries—many of which were named after Star Wars characters—but it still recognized revenue from the subsidiaries, giving the impression that Enron was performing much better than it was.



Another term inspired by Enron's demise was "Enroned," slang for having been negatively affected by senior management's inappropriate actions or decisions. Being "Enroned" can happen to any stakeholder, such as employees, shareholders, or suppliers. For example, if someone has lost their job because their employer was shut down due to illegal activities that they had nothing to do with, they have been "Enroned."



As a result of Enron, lawmakers put several new protective measures in place. One was the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which serves to enhance corporate transparency and criminalize financial manipulation. The rules of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) were also strengthened to curtail the use of questionable accounting practices, and corporate boards were required to take on more responsibility as management watchdogs.




What Did Enron Do That Was So Unethical?
Enron used special purpose entities to hide debt off of its balance sheet and mark-to-market accounting to overstate revenue. In addition, it ignored internal advisement against these practices knowing that its publicly disclosed financial position was incorrect.




How Big was Enron?
With shares trading for around $90/each, Enron was once worth about $70 billion. Lead up to its bankruptcy, the company employed over 20,000 employees. The company also reported over $100 billion of company-wide net revenue (though this figure has since been determined to be incorrect).




Who Was Responsible for the Collapse of Enron?
Several key members of the executive team are often noted as being responsible for the fall of Enron. The executives includes Kenneth Lay (founder and former Chief Executive Officer), Jeffrey Skilling (former Chief Executive Office replacing Lay), and Andrew Fastow (former Chief Financial Officer).




Does Enron Exist Today?
As a result of its financial scandal, Enron ended its bankruptcy in 2004. The name of the entity officially changed to Enron Creditors Recovery Corp., and the company's assets were liquidated and reorganized as part of the bankruptcy plan. Its last business, Prisma Energy, was sold in 2006.


   The Bottom Line  

At the time, Enron's collapse was the biggest corporate bankruptcy to ever hit the financial world (since then, the failures of WorldCom, Lehman Brothers, and Washington Mutual have surpassed it). The Enron scandal drew attention to accounting and corporate fraud as its shareholders lost tens of billions of dollars in the years leading up to its bankruptcy, and its employees lost billions more in pension benefits. Increased regulation and oversight have been enacted to help prevent corporate scandals of Enron's magnitude. However, some companies are still reeling from the damage caused by Enron.
What Is Enterprise Multiple?  

Enterprise multiple, also known as the EV multiple, is a ratio used to determine the value of a company. The enterprise multiple, which is enterprise value divided by earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA), looks at a company the way a potential acquirer would by considering the company's debt. What's considered a "good" or "bad" enterprise multiple will depend on the industry. 












Investopedia / Eliana Rodgers


   Formula and Calculation of Enterprise Multiple  

﻿















Enterprise Multiple


=




EV




EBITDA


















where:
















EV


=


Enterprise Value


=


Market capitalization


 


+
















total debt


−


cash and cash equivalents
















EBITDA


=


Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
















and amortization








\begin{aligned} &\text{Enterprise Multiple} = \frac { \text{EV} }{ \text{EBITDA} } \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{EV} = \text{Enterprise Value} = \text{Market capitalization} \ + \\ &\text{total debt} - \text{cash and cash equivalents} \\ &\text{EBITDA} = \text{Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation} \\ &\text{and amortization} \\ \end{aligned}


​Enterprise Multiple=EBITDAEV​where:EV=Enterprise Value=Market capitalization +total debt−cash and cash equivalentsEBITDA=Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciationand amortization​﻿





Key Takeaways

Enterprise multiple, also known as the EV-to-EBITDA multiple, is a ratio used to determine the value of a company.It is computed by dividing enterprise value by EBITDA.The enterprise multiple takes into account a company's debt and cash levels in addition to its stock price and relates that value to the firm's cash profitability. Enterprise multiples can vary depending on the industry.Higher enterprise multiples are expected in high-growth industries and lower multiples in industries with slow growth.







Enterprise Multiple: My Favorite Financial Term


   What Enterprise Multiple Can Tell You  

Investors mainly use a company's enterprise multiple to determine whether a company is undervalued or overvalued. A low ratio relative to peers or historical averages indicates that a company might be undervalued and a high ratio indicates that the company might be overvalued.



An enterprise multiple is useful for transnational comparisons because it ignores the distorting effects of individual countries' taxation policies. It's also used to find attractive takeover candidates since enterprise value includes debt and is a better metric than market capitalization for merger and acquisition (M&A) purposes.



Enterprise multiples can vary depending on the industry. It is reasonable to expect higher enterprise multiples in high-growth industries (e.g. biotech) and lower multiples in industries with slow growth (e.g. railways).



Enterprise value (EV) is a measure of the economic value of a company. It is frequently used to determine the value of the business if it is acquired. It is considered to be a better valuation measure for M&A than a market cap since it includes the debt an acquirer would have to assume and the cash they'd receive.


   Example of How to Use Enterprise Multiple  

Dollar General (DG) generated $3.86 billion in EBITDA for the trailing 12 months (TTM) as of the year ended Jan. 28, 2022. The company had $344.8 million in cash and cash equivalents and $14.25 billion in total debt for the same ended year.



The company's market cap was $56.2 billion as of April 8, 2022. Dollar General's enterprise multiple is 18.2 [($56.2 billion + $14.25 billion - $344 million) / $3.86 billion]. At the same time last year, Dollar General's enterprise multiple was 17.4. The increase in the enterprise multiple is largely a result of the near $1 billion decrease in cash on their balance sheet, while EBITDA decreased just around $300 million. In this example, you can see how the Enterprise Multiple calculation takes into account both the cash the company has on hand and the debt the company is liable for.


   Limitations of Using Enterprise Multiple  

An enterprise multiple is a metric used for finding attractive buyout targets. But, beware of value traps—stocks with low multiples because they are deserved (e.g. the company is struggling and won't recover). This creates the illusion of a value investment, but the fundamentals of the industry or company point toward negative returns.



Investors assume that a stock's past performance is indicative of future returns and when the multiple comes down, they often jump at the opportunity to buy it at a "cheap" value. Knowledge of the industry and company fundamentals can help assess the stock's actual value.



One easy way to do this is to look at expected (forward) profitability and determine whether the projections pass the test. Forward multiples should be lower than the TTM multiples. Value traps occur when these forward multiples look overly cheap, but the reality is the projected EBITDA is too high and the stock price has already fallen, likely reflecting the market's cautiousness. As such, it's important to know the catalysts for the company and industry.
What Is Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)?  

Enterprise resource planning (ERP) is a platform companies use to manage and integrate the essential parts of their businesses. Many ERP software applications are critical to companies because they help them implement resource planning by integrating all the processes needed to run their companies with a single system.



An ERP software system can also integrate planning, purchasing inventory, sales, marketing, finance, human resources, and more.





Key Takeaways

ERP software can integrate all of the processes needed to run a company.ERP solutions have evolved over the years, and many are now typically web-based applications that users can access remotely.Some benefits of ERP include the free flow of communication between business areas, a single source of information, and accurate, real-time data reporting.There are hundreds of ERP applications a company can choose from, and most can be customized.An ERP system can be ineffective if a company doesn't implement it carefully.












Investopedia / Joules Garcia


   Understanding Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)  

You can think of an enterprise resource planning system as the glue that binds together the different computer systems for a large organization. Without an ERP application, each department would have its system optimized for its specific tasks. With ERP software, each department still has its system, but all of the systems can be accessed through one application with one interface.


  What Does ERP Do?  

ERP applications also allow the different departments to communicate and share information more easily with the rest of the company. It collects information about the activity and state of different divisions, making this information available to other parts, where it can be used productively.



ERP applications can help a corporation become more self-aware by linking information about production, finance, distribution, and human resources together. Because it connects different technologies used by each part of a business, an ERP application can eliminate costly duplicates and incompatible technology. The process often integrates accounts payable, stock control systems, order-monitoring systems, and customer databases into one system.


  How Does It Work?  

ERP has evolved over the years from traditional software models that made use of physical client servers and manual entry systems to cloud-based software with remote, web-based access. The platform is generally maintained by the company that created it, with client companies renting services provided by the platform.



Businesses select the applications they want to use. Then, the hosting company loads the applications onto the server the client is renting, and both parties begin working to integrate the client's processes and data into the platform.



Once all departments are tied into the system, all data is collected on the server and becomes instantly available to those with permission to use it. Reports can be generated with metrics, graphs, or other visuals and aids a client might need to determine how the business and its departments are performing.






A company could experience cost overruns if its ERP system is not implemented carefully.


   Benefits of Enterprise Resource Planning  

Businesses employ enterprise resource planning (ERP) for various reasons, such as expanding, reducing costs, and improving operations. The benefits sought and realized between companies may differ; however, some are worth noting.


  Improves Accuracy and Productivity  

Integrating and automating business processes eliminates redundancies and improves accuracy and productivity. In addition, departments with interconnected processes can synchronize work to achieve faster and better outcomes.


  Improves Reporting  

Some businesses benefit from enhanced real-time data reporting from a single source system. Accurate and complete reporting help companies adequately plan, budget, forecast, and communicate the state of operations to the organization and interested parties, such as shareholders.


  Increases Efficiency  

ERPs allow businesses to quickly access needed information for clients, vendors, and business partners. This contributes to improved customer and employee satisfaction, quicker response rates, and increased accuracy rates. In addition, associated costs often decrease as the company operates more efficiently.






ERP software also provides total visibility, allowing management to access real-time data for decision-making.


  Increases Collaboration  

Departments are better able to collaborate and share knowledge; a newly synergized workforce can improve productivity and employee satisfaction as employees are better able to see how each functional group contributes to the mission and vision of the company. Also, menial and manual tasks are eliminated, allowing employees to allocate their time to more meaningful work.


   ERP Weaknesses  

An ERP system doesn't always eliminate inefficiencies within a business or improve everything. The company might need to rethink how it's organized or risk ending up with incompatible technology.



ERP systems usually fail to achieve the objectives that influenced their installation because of a company's reluctance to abandon old working processes. Some companies may also be reluctant to let go of old software that worked well in the past. The key is to prevent ERP projects from being split into smaller projects, which can result in cost overruns.






Employing change management principles throughout the ERP life cycle can prevent or reduce failures that compromise full implementation.


   ERP Solutions Providers  

Some familiar names are leaders in ERP software. Oracle Corp. (ORCL) originally supplied a relational database that integrated with ERP software developed by SAP (SAP) before entering the broader enterprise market in a big way in the early 2000s. Microsoft (MSFT) has long been an industry leader, with many customers using multiple software applications from the company.



As cloud-based solutions have grown in popularity in recent years, the traditional ERP industry leaders have seen challenges from upstarts such as Bizowie and Workwise.


   ERP Examples  
  Fulton & Roark  

Men's grooming product maker Fulton & Roark successfully implemented enterprise resource planning to better track inventory and financial data. Like many other businesses, the North Carolina company used spreadsheets to track inventory and accounting software to record financial data.



As the company grew, its processes lagged. Their antiquated inventory tracking system did not account for changing costs, and the accounting software could not record the metrics needed for key financial statements. These breakdowns created manual processes, which further compromised time and resources.



To eliminate unnecessary processes and centralize work, they chose the Oracle NetSuite ERP system. Immediately, Fulton & Rourk was better able to identify accounting errors related to inventory, eliminate costs from employing third parties to evaluate their financial records, and better report financial positions.


  Cadbury  

Cadbury, a global confectioner and maker of the popular chocolate Cadbury egg, also successfully implemented an ERP system. The company had thousands of systems but could not keep pace with its rapid growth and used ineffective warehouse management systems.



It implemented a system that integrated its thousands of applications, standardized processes, and restructured warehouse management systems—breaking down silos for seamless, integrated coordination of work.




What Is the Importance of Enterprise Resource Planning?
Enterprise resource planning software offers single-system solutions that integrate processes across the business. These applications allow users to interact within a single interface, share information, and enable cross-functional collaboration. They increase productivity, collaboration, and efficiency.




What Are the 5 Components of ERP?
The components of an ERP system depend on the organization's needs. However, there are key features that each ERP should include. Generally, packages include finance, human resource, logistics and manufacturing, supply chain management, and customer relationship management.




What Are the Types of ERP?
Generally there are three deployment options for ERP systems; Cloud-based, on-premise, and a hybrid of the two. Within these options, a business can choose from hundreds of types such as finance, supply chain management, and human resource management.




What Are the 2 Main ERP Applications?
Which ones are the main applications depends on the business and the industry it operates in. Most companies can benefit from supply chain management, logistics, and financial applications to help them streamline their operations and expenses.


   The Bottom Line  

Enterprise resource planning (ERP) manages and integrates business processes through a single system. With a better line of sight, companies can better plan and allocate resources. Without ERP, companies tend to operate in silos, with each department using its own disconnected system.



ERP systems promote the free flow of communication and sharing of knowledge across an organization, the integration of systems for improved productivity and efficiencies, and increased synergies across teams and departments. However, moving to an ERP system will be counterproductive if the company's culture does not adjust to the change and the company does not review how the structure of its organization can support it.
What Is Enterprise Risk Management (ERM)?  

Enterprise risk management (ERM) is a methodology that looks at risk management strategically from the perspective of the entire firm or organization. It is a top-down strategy that aims to identify, assess, and prepare for potential losses, dangers, hazards, and other potentials for harm that may interfere with an organization's operations and objectives and/or lead to losses.





Key Takeaways

Enterprise risk management (ERM) is a firm-wide strategy to identify and prepare for hazards with a company's finances, operations, and objectives.ERM allows managers to shape the firm's overall risk position by mandating certain business segments engage with or disengage from particular activities.Traditional risk management, which leaves decision-making in the hands of division heads, can lead to siloed evaluations that do not account for other divisions.The COSO framework for enterprise risk management identifies eight core components of developing ERM practices. Successful ERM strategies can mitigate operational, financial, security, compliance, legal, and many other types of risks.


   Understanding Enterprise Risk Management (ERM)  

Enterprise risk management takes a holistic approach and calls for management-level decision-making that may not necessarily make sense for an individual business unit or segment. Thus, instead of each business unit being responsible for its own risk management, firm-wide surveillance is given precedence.



It also often involves making the risk plan of action available to all stakeholders as part of an annual report. Industries as varied as aviation, construction, public health, international development, energy, finance, and insurance all have shifted to utilize ERM.



ERM, therefore, can work to minimize firmwide risk as well as identify unique firmwide opportunities. Communicating and coordinating between different business units is key for ERM to be successful, since the risk decision coming from top management may seem at odds with local assessments on the ground. Firms that utilize ERM will typically have a dedicated enterprise risk management team that oversees the workings of the firm.



While ERM best practices and standards are still evolving, they have been formalized through COSO, an industry group that maintains and updates such guidance for companies and ERM professionals.






ERM-friendly firms may be attractive to investors because they signal more stable investments.


   A Holistic Approach to Risk Management  

Modern businesses face a diverse set of risks and potential dangers. In the past, companies traditionally handled their risk exposures via each division managing its own business. Enterprise risk management calls for corporations to identify all the risks they face. It also makes management decide which risks to manage actively. As opposed to risks being siloed across a company, a company sees the bigger picture when using ERM.



ERM looks at each business unit as a "portfolio" within the firm and tries to understand how risks to individual business units interact and overlap. It is also able to identify potential risk factors that are unseen by any individual unit.



Companies have been managing risk for years. Traditional risk management has relied on each business unit evaluating and handling their own risk and then reporting back to the CEO at a later date. More recently, companies have started to recognize the need for a more holistic approach.



A chief risk officer (CRO), for instance, is a corporate executive position that is required from an ERM standpoint. The CRO is responsible for identifying, analyzing, and mitigating internal and external risks that impact the entire corporation. The CRO also works to ensure that the company complies with government regulations, such as Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX), and reviews factors that could hurt investments or a company's business units. The CRO's mandate will be specified in conjunction with other top management along with the board of directors and other stakeholders.






A good indication that a company is working at effective ERM is the presence of a chief risk officer (CRO) or a dedicator manager who coordinates ERM efforts.


   Components of Enterprise Risk Management  

The COSO enterprise risk management framework identifies eight core components that define how a company should approach creating its ERM practices.


  Internal Environment  

A company's internal environment is the atmosphere and corporate culture within the company set by its employees. This sets the precedence of what the company's risk appetite is and what management's philosophy is regarding incurring risk. The internal environment may be set by upper management or the board and communicated throughout an organization, though it is often reflected through the actions of all employees.


  Objective Setting  

As a company determines its purpose, it must set objectives that support the mission and goals of a company. These objectives must then be aligned with a company's risk appetite. For example, an ambitious company that has set far-reaching strategic plans must be aware there may be internal risks or external risks associated with these lofty goals. In response, a company can align the measures to be taken with what it wants to accomplish such as hiring additional regulatory staff for expansion areas it is currently unfamiliar with.


  Event Identification  

Positive events may have a great impact on a company. On the other hand, negative events may have detrimental outcomes on a company's ability to continue to operate. ERM guidance recommends that companies identify important areas of the business and associated events that may have dire outcomes. These high risk events may pose risks to operations (i.e. natural disasters that force offices to temporarily close) or strategic (i.e. government regulation outlaws the company's primary product line).


  Risk Assessment  

In addition to being aware of what may happen, the ERM framework details the step of assessing risk by understanding the likelihood and financial impact of risks. This includes not only the direct risk (i.e. a natural disaster yields an office unusable) but residual risks (i.e. employees may not feel safe returning to the office). Though difficult, the ERM framework encourages companies to consider quantifying risks by assessing the percent change of occurrence as well as the dollar impact.


  Risk Response  

A company can respond to risk in the following four ways:



The company can avoid risk. This results in the company leaving the activity that causes the risk as the company would rather forgo the benefits of the activity than incur the risk. An example of risk avoidance is a company shutting down a product line and discontinuing selling a specific good.
The company can reduce risk. This results in the company staying engaged in the activity but putting forth effort in minimizing the likelihood or magnitude of the risk. An example of risk reduction is a company keeping the product line above open but investing more in quality control or consumer education on how to property use the product.
The company can share risk. This results in the company moving forward as-is with the current risk profile of the activity. However, the company leverages an independent third party to share in the potential loss in exchange for a fee. An example of risk sharing is purchasing an insurance policy.
The company can accept risk. This results in the company analyzing the potential outcomes and determining whether it is financially worth pursuing mitigating practices. An example of risk acceptance is the company keeping open the product line with no changes to operations and risk sharing.


  Control Activities  

Control activities are the actions taken by a company to create policies and procedures to ensure management carries out operations while mitigating risk. Control activities, often referred to as internal controls, are broken into two different types of processes:



Preventative control activities are in place to stop an activity from happening. These controls aim to mitigate risk by disallowing certain events from happening. An example of a preventative control is a keypad or physical lock preventing all employees from entering into a sensitive area.Detective control activities are in place to recognize when a risky action has taken place. Although the event is allowed to happen (or was not supposed to happen but still did), detective controls may alert management to ensure appropriate follow-up steps occur. An example of a detective control is an alarm for the room or a l


  Information and Communication  

Information systems should be able to capture data useful to management to better understand a company's risk profile and management of risk. This means not granting exceptions for departments outperforming others; all aspects of a company should be continually monitored. By extension, some of this data should be analyzed and communicated to employees if it is relevant to mitigating risk. By communicating with employees, there is more likely to be greater buy-in for processes and protection over company assets.


  Monitoring  

A company can turn to an internal committee or an external auditor to review its policies and practices. This may include reviewing what is actually performed compared to what policy documents suggest. This may also entail getting feedback, analyzing company data, and informing management of unprotected risks. In an ever-changing environment, companies must also be ready to assess their ERM environment and pivot as needed.






The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations (COSO) board published the ERM framework in 2004, and the publication has been widely used since.


   How to Implement Enterprise Risk Management Practices  

ERM practices will vary based on a company's size, risk preferences, and business objectives. Below are best practices most companies can use to implement ERM strategies.



Define risk philosophy. Before implementing any practices, a company must identify how it feels about risk and what its strategy around risk will be. This should involve strategic discussions between management and an analysis of a company's entire risk profile.
Create action plans. With a company's risk philosophy in hand, it is time to create an action plan. This defines the steps a company must take to protect its assets and plans to protect the future of the organization after a risk assessment has been performed.
Be creative. When considering risks, ERM entails thinking broadly about the problems a company may face. Though far-fetched, it is in a company's best interest to think of as many challenges it may face and how it will respond (or decide to not respond) to should the event happen.
Communicate priorities. A company may determine several high-important risks are critical to mitigate for the continuation of the company. These priorities should be communicated and broadly understood as the risks that should not be incurred under any circumstance. Alternatively, a company may wish to communicate the plans if the event were to occur.
Assign responsibilities. When an action plan has been devised, specific employees should be identified to carry out specific parts of the plan. This may include delegating tasks to specific positions should employees leave the company. This not only allows for all action items to be worked on but will hold members responsible for their area(s) of risk.
Maintain flexibility. As companies and risks evolve, a company must design ERM practices to be adaptable. The risks a company faces one day may be different the next; the company must be able to carry its current plan while still making plans for new, future risks.
Leverage technology. ERM digital platforms may host, summarize, and track many of the risks of a company. Technology can also be used to implement internal controls or gather data on how performance is tracking to ERM practices.
Continually monitor. Once ERM practices are in place, a company must ensure the practices are adhered to. This means tracking progress towards goals, ensuring certain risks are being mitigated, and employees are performing tasks as expected.
Use metrics. As part of monitoring ERM practices, a company should develop a series of metrics to quantifiably gauge whether it is meeting targets. Often referred to as SMART goals, these metrics keep a company accountable on whether it met objectives or not.






As a company implements ERM practices, it is widely advised to continually gather feedback from all employees. Everyone will have a different perspective of what might not be working or what could be done better.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Enterprise Risk Management  
  Advantages of ERM  

ERM sets the organizational-wide expectations around a company's culture. This includes communicating more openly about the risks a company faces and how to mitigate them. This leads to less unexpected risks and more guided direction on how to respond to certain events.



In addition, this may lead to greater employee satisfaction knowing plans are in place to protect company resources as well as greater customer service knowing how to respond to customers should certain risks actually occur.



ERM practices are often synthesized by a standardized risk report delivered to upper management. This report succinctly summaries the risks a company faces, the actions being taken, and information needed for decision-making. As a result, a company may be more efficient with its time, especially considering what is delivered to upper management



ERM may also have a company-wide positive impact on the resourcefulness of the business. ERM may eliminate redundant process, ensure efficient use of staff, reduce theft, or increase profitability by better understanding what markets to enter into.


  Disadvantages of ERM  

As a company builds out its ERM practices, it will likely consider familiar risks it has been exposed to in the past. Therefore, ERM is limited in identifying future risks that the organization is unaware that may have more detrimental impacts. In this manner, some may consider ERM as reactive as companies can only forecast risk based on what they have prior experience on.



ERM also relies very heavily on management estimates and inputs. This may be nearly impossible to accurately predict. For example, in the very low chance a company forecast the occurance of the COVID-19 pandemic, would a company be able to accurately calculate the fiscal impact of business closures or changes in consumer spending? ERM mitigation costs may also be difficult to assess.



ERM practices are time-intensive and therefore require resources of the company to be successful. Though the company will benefit from protecting its assets, a company must detract time of its staff and may make capital investments to implement ERM strategies. In addition, a company may find it difficult to quantify the success of ERM as financial risks that do not occur must simply be projected.




ERM Practices

Pros

May make a company more prepared for risks and uncertainties
May leave employees more satisfied with the future state of the company
May result in greater customer service as companies are prepared for certain situations
May result in efficient reporting to upper management that enhances decision-making
May lead to more efficient company-wide operations



Cons

May not accurately identify the risks a company is likely to experience
May not accurately assess the financial impact or likelihood of an outcome
Often requires time investment from a company in order to be successful
Often requires capital investment from a company in order to be successful





   What Types of Risks Does Enterprise Risk Management Address?  

ERM can help devise plans for almost any type of business risk. Business risk threatens a company's ability to survive, and these risks may be further classified into different risks discussed below. In general, ERM most commonly addresses the following types of risk:



Compliance risk threatens a company due to a violation of external law or requirement. An example of compliance risk is a company's inability to produce timely financial statements in accordance with applicable accounting rules such as GAAP.Legal risk threatens a company should the company face lawsuit or penalty for contractual, dispute, or regulatory issues. An example of legal risk is a billing dispute with a major customer.Strategic risk threatens a company's long-term plan. For example, new market participants in the future may supplant the company as the lowest-cost provider of a good.Operational risk threatens the day-to-day activities required for the company to operate. An example of operational risk is a natural disaster that damages a company's warehouse where inventory is stored.Security risk threatens the company's assets if physical or digital assets are misappropriated. An example of security risk is insufficient controls overseeing sensitive client information stored on network servers.Financial risk threatens the debt or financial standing of a company. An example of financial risk is translation losses by holding foreign currency.




What Is ERM and Why Is It Important?
ERM is a company's approach to managing risk. It is the practices, policies, and framework for how a company handles a variety of risks its business faces. ERM is important because it helps prevent losses or unexpected negative outcomes. ERM is also important because it helps a company set the plans in place to strategically approach risk and garner employee buy-in.




What Are the 3 Types of Enterprise Risk?
ERM often summaries the risks a company faces into operational, financial, and strategic risks. Operational risks impact day-to-day operations, while strategic risks impact long-term plans. Financial risks impact the general financial standing and health of a company.




What Are the 8 Components of ERM?
The COSO framework for ERM identifies eight components: internal environment, objective setting, event identification, risk assessment, risk response, control activities, information & communication, and monitoring. These eight core components drive a company's ERM practices.




What Is the Difference Between Risk Management and Enterprise Risk Management?
Risk management has traditionally been used to describe the practices and policies surrounding a specific risk a company faces. More modern risk management has introduced ERM, a comprehensive, company-wide approach to view risk holistically for the entire company.


   The Bottom Line  

As a company makes, sells, and delivers goods to customers, it faces countless risks from numerous sources. To better plan for these risks, companies are turning to enterprise risk management, a company-wide, top-down approach of assessing risk and devising plans. The ultimate goal of ERM is to protect a company's assets and operations while have strategies in place should certain unfortunate events occur.
What Is Enterprise Value (EV)?  

Enterprise value (EV) measures a company's total value, often used as a more comprehensive alternative to market capitalization. EV includes in its calculation the market capitalization of a company but also short-term and long-term debt and any cash or cash equivalents on the company's balance sheet.





Key Takeaways

Enterprise value (EV) measures a company's total value, often used as a more comprehensive alternative to equity market capitalization.Enterprise value includes in its calculation the market capitalization of a company but also short-term and long-term debt and any cash on the company's balance sheet.Enterprise value is used as the basis for many financial ratios that measure a company's performance.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Components of Enterprise Value (EV)  

Enterprise value uses figures from a company's financial statements and current market prices. The components that make up EV are:



Market cap: The total value of a company's outstanding common and preferred sharesDebt: The sum of long-term and short-term debtUnfunded pension liabilities (if any): The amount of capital lacking to cover pension payouts or the amount a company needs to set aside to make pension payments in an unfunded plan. Can be added market cap if this value is present.Minority interest: The equity value of a subsidiary with less than 50% ownership. It can be added to market cap for EV calculation.Cash and cash equivalents: The total amount of cash, certificates of deposit, drafts, money orders, commercial paper, marketable securities, money market funds, short-term government bonds, or Treasury bills a company possesses.


   Enterprise Value Formula and Calculation  
















E


V


=


M


C


+


T


o


t


a


l


 


D


e


b


t


−


C
















where:
















M


C


=



Market capitalization; equal to the current stock


















price multiplied by the number of outstanding stock shares

















T


o


t


a


l


 


d


e


b


t


=



Equal to the sum of short-term and


















long-term debt

















C


=



Cash and cash equivalents; the liquid assets of


















a company, but may not include marketable securities








\begin{aligned} &EV=MC+Total~Debt-C\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &MC=\text{\small Market capitalization; equal to the current stock}\\ &\text{\small price multiplied by the number of outstanding stock shares}\\ &Total~debt =\text{\small Equal to the sum of short-term and}\\ &\text{\small long-term debt}\\ &C=\text{\small Cash and cash equivalents; the liquid assets of}\\ &\text{\small a company, but may not include marketable securities}\\ \end{aligned}


​EV=MC+Total Debt−Cwhere:MC=Market capitalization; equal to the current stockprice multiplied by the number of outstanding stock sharesTotal debt=Equal to the sum of short-term andlong-term debtC=Cash and cash equivalents; the liquid assets ofa company, but may not include marketable securities​



To calculate market capitalization—if not readily available online—you would multiply the number of outstanding shares by the current stock price. Next, total all debt on the company's balance sheet, including both short-term and long-term debt. Finally, add the market capitalization to the total debt and subtract any cash and cash equivalents from the result.


   What Does EV Tell You?  

Enterprise value (EV) differs significantly from simple market capitalization in several ways, and many consider it to be a more accurate representation of a firm's value. EV tells investors or interested parties a company's value and how much another company would need if it wanted to purchase that company.



There is one other consideration: a company's EV can be negative if the total value of its cash and cash equivalents surpasses that of the combined total of its market cap and debts. This is a sign that a company is not using its assets very well—it has too much cash sitting around not being used. Extra cash can be used for many things, such as distributions, buybacks, expansion, research and development, maintenance, employee pay raises, bonuses, or paying off debts.






Market capitalization is not intended to represent a company's book value. Instead, it represents a company's value as determined by market participants.


   EV as a Valuation Multiple  

Enterprise value is used as the basis for many financial ratios that measure the performance of a company. For example, the enterprise multiple contains enterprise value. It relates the total value of a company from all sources to a measure of operating earnings generated—the earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA).



EBITDA measures a company's ability to generate revenue and is used as an alternative to simple earnings or net income (in some circumstances). EBITDA, however, can be misleading because it strips out the cost of capital investments like property, plant, and equipment. Another figure, EBIT, can be used as a similar financial metric without the drawback of removing depreciation and amortization expenses related to property, plant, and equipment (PP&E).


  EBITDA Calculation  

EBITDA calculates a company's income before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization. EBITDA is calculated using the following formula:



EBITDA = Net Income + Interest Expense + Taxes + Depreciation + Amortization


  EV/EBITDA  

The enterprise multiple (EV/EBITDA) metric is used as a valuation tool to compare the value of a company and its debt to the company’s cash earnings, less its non-cash expenses. As a result, it's ideal for analysts and investors looking to compare companies within the same industry.



EV/EBITDA is useful in several situations:



The ratio may be more useful than the P/E ratio when comparing firms with different degrees of financial leverage (DFL).
EBITDA is helpful in valuing capital-intensive businesses with high levels of depreciation and amortization.
EBITDA is usually positive even when earnings per share (EPS) is not.



EV/EBITDA has a few drawbacks:



If working capital is growing, EBITDA will overstate cash flows from operations (CFO or OCF). Further, this measure ignores how different revenue recognition policies can affect a company's OCF.
Because free cash flow to the firm captures the number of capital expenditures (CapEx), it is more strongly linked with valuation theory than EBITDA. EBITDA will be a generally adequate measure if capital expenses equal depreciation expenses.


  EV/Sales  

Another commonly used multiple for determining the relative value of firms is the enterprise value to sales ratio or EV/sales. EV/Sales is regarded as a more accurate measure than the Price/Sales ratio since it considers the value and amount of debt a company must repay at some point.



It's believed that the lower the EV/Sales multiple, the more attractive—or undervalued—the company is. The EV/Sales ratio can be negative when the cash held by a company is more than the market capitalization and debt value. A negative EV/sales implies that a company can pay off all of its debts.


   Enterprise Value vs. Market Cap  

Why doesn't market capitalization properly represent a firm's value? It leaves a lot of essential factors out, such as a company's debt and cash reserves.



Enterprise value is a modification of market cap, as it incorporates debt and cash for determining a company's value.



Here's an example: imagine two identical widget manufacturers, Company A and Company B, have the same stock price of $4.32 per share. Each have 1 million outstanding shares with a market cap of $4.32 million.


  Debt and Cash Change the View  

Now, imagine Company A has $500,000 in cash and cash equivalents and $250,000 in total debt. Its EV (total worth) is $4,320,000 + $250,000 - $500,000 = $4.07 million.



Company B has $1 million in cash and $250,000 in debt. It's EV is $4,320,000 + $250,000 - $1,000,000 = $3.57 million.



The companies looked identical using market cap, but a much different picture appears when EV is calculated.


   Enterprise Value vs. P/E Ratio  

The price-to-earnings ratio (P/E ratio) is the ratio for valuing a company that measures its current share price relative to its earnings per share (EPS). The price-to-earnings ratio is sometimes known as the price multiple or the earnings multiple. The P/E ratio doesn't consider the amount of debt that a company has on its balance sheet.






EV includes debt when valuing a company and is often used in tandem with the P/E ratio to achieve a comprehensive valuation.


   Limitations of EV  

As stated earlier, EV includes total debt, but it's essential to consider how the company's management utilizes the debt. For example, capital-intensive industries such as the oil and gas industry typically carry significant amounts of debt, which is used to foster growth. The debt could have been used to purchase a plant and equipment. As a result, the EV can be skewed when comparing companies across industries.



This is essential to consider if the company being looked at is undergoing a merger or acquisition. This is because the acquiring company will need to account for the amount of debt it is taking on in the merger. Investors can use this information to evaluate what the merged companies will look like in the future.



As with any financial metric, it's best to compare companies within the same industry to better understand how the company is valued relative to its peers.


   Example of EV  

As stated earlier, the formula for EV is essentially the sum of the market value of equity (market capitalization) and the market value of a company's debt, less any cash. A company's market capitalization is calculated by multiplying the share price by the number of outstanding shares. The net debt is the market value of debt minus cash. A company acquiring another company keeps the cash of the target firm, which is why cash needs to be deducted from the firm's price as represented by the market cap.



Let's calculate the enterprise value for Macy's (M). For its 2021 fiscal year, Macy's recorded the following:











Macy's Form 10-K, Fiscal Year Ending Jan. 29, 2022




1
# Outstanding Shares
292.4 million
 


2
Share Price close on 1/28/22
$25.44



3
Market Capitalization
$7.44 billion
Item 1 x 2


4
Short-Term Debt
$0
 


5
Long-Term Debt 
$3.30 billion
 


6
Total Debt
$3.30 billion
Item 4+ 5


7
Cash and Cash Equivalents
$1.71 billion
 


 
Enterprise Value
$9.03 billion
Item 3 + 6 - 7






We can calculate Macy's market cap from the information above. Macy's has 292.4 million outstanding shares valued at $25.44 per share at the end of its fiscal year (Jan. 29, 2022):



Macy's market capitalization was $7.44 billion (292.4 million x $25.44).Macy's had short-term debt of $0 and long-term debt of $3.30 billion for a total debt of $3.30 billion.Macy's had $1.71 billion in cash and cash equivalents.



Macy's enterprise value is calculated as $7.44 billion (market cap) + $3.30 billion (debt) - $1.71 billion (cash).



Macy's EV = $9.03 billion



Enterprise value is considered comprehensive when valuing a company because, if a company were to purchase Macy's outstanding shares for $7.44 billion, it would also have to settle Macy's $3.30 billion in outstanding debts.



In total, the acquiring company will spend more than $10 billion to purchase Macy's. However, since Macy's has $1.71 billion in cash, this amount could be added to repay the debt.




How Do You Calculate Enterprise Value?
To calculate market capitalization, multiply the number of outstanding shares by the current stock price. Next, total all debt on the company's balance sheet. Finally, add the market capitalization to the total debt and subtract any cash and cash equivalents from the result.




What Is a Good Enterprise Value?
Enterprise value is a good indicator of a company's total value, but the EV/EBITDA is a better indicator, demonstrating the total value to actual earnings. An EV/EBITDA below 10 is considered healthy.




What Is Enterprise Value and Why Is It Important?
Enterprise value shows a company's total value and is generally used in mergers and acquisitions to evaluate a prospect. You might also see embedded value used to value life insurance companies, primarily in Europe.




What Is Enterprise Value vs. Market Value?
Enterprise value is the total value of a company, while market value is the value of its shares on the stock market. Market capitalization is the total value of all sthares on the stock market.


   The Bottom Line  

Enterprise value estimates a company's total value, generally used by other companies when considering a merger or acquisition. Investors can also use EV to estimate a company's size and worth to help them evaluate their stock choices. EV is best used with other metrics for valuating a stock. Some popular ratios are EV/Sales and EV/EBITDA.



Correction—Dec. 17, 2022: The article has been updated from a previous version that incorrectly omitted debt when describing the formula for calculating enterprise value. Debt is a necessary element of the formula.
What Is the Enterprise Value-to-Revenue Multiple (EV/R)?  

The enterprise value-to-revenue multiple (EV/R) is a measure of the value of a stock that compares a company's enterprise value to its revenue. EV/R is one of several fundamental indicators that investors use to determine whether a stock is priced fairly. The EV/R multiple is also often used to determine a company's valuation in the case of a potential acquisition. It’s also called the enterprise value-to-sales multiple.





Key Takeaways

A measure of the value of a stock that compares a company's enterprise value to its revenue.Often used to determine a company's valuation in the case of a potential acquisition.Can be used for companies that do not generate income or profits.


   Understanding Enterprise Value-to-Revenue Multiple (EV/R)  

The enterprise value-to-revenue (EV/R) multiple helps compare a company’s revenues to its enterprise value. The lower the better, in that, a lower EV/R multiple signals a company is undervalued.



Generally used as a valuation multiple, the EV/R is often used during acquisitions. An acquirer will use the EV/R multiple to determine an appropriate fair value. The enterprise value is used because it adds debt and takes out cash, which an acquirer would take on and receive, respectively.


   How to Calculate Enterprise-Value-to-Revenue Multiple (EV/R)  

The enterprise value-to-revenue (EV/R) is easily calculated by taking the enterprise value of the company and dividing it by the company's revenue.



﻿















EV/R


=




Enterprise Value




Revenue


















where:
















Enterprise Value


=


MC


+


D


−


CC
















MC


=


Market capitalization
















D


=


Debt
















CC


=


Cash and cash equivalents








\begin{aligned} &\text{EV/R} = \frac{ \text{Enterprise Value} }{ \text{Revenue} } \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{Enterprise Value} = \text{MC} + \text{D} - \text{CC} \\ &\text{MC} = \text{Market capitalization} \\ &\text{D} = \text{Debt} \\ &\text{CC} = \text{Cash and cash equivalents} \\ \end{aligned}


​EV/R=RevenueEnterprise Value​where:Enterprise Value=MC+D−CCMC=Market capitalizationD=DebtCC=Cash and cash equivalents​﻿


   Example of How to Use Enterprise Value-to-Revenue Multiple (EV/R)  

Say a company has $20 million in short-term liabilities on the books and $30 million in long-term liabilities. It has $125 million worth of assets, and 10% of those assets are reported as cash. There are 10 million shares of the company's common stock outstanding, and the current price per share of the stock is $17.50. The company reported $85 million in revenue last year.



Using this scenario, the enterprise value of the company is:



﻿







Enterprise Value








=


(


$


10


,


000


,


000


×


$


17.50


)

















+


(


$


20


,


000


,


000


+


$


30


,


000


,


000


)

















−


(


$


125


,


000


,


000


×


0.1


)
















=


$


175


,


000


,


000


+


$


50


,


000


,


000

















−


$


12


,


500


,


000
















=


$


212


,


500


,


000







\begin{aligned} \text{Enterprise Value} &= (\$10,000,000 \times \$17.50) \\ &\quad + (\$20,000,000 + \$30,000,000) \\ &\quad - (\$125,000,000 \times 0.1) \\ &= \$175,000,000 + \$50,000,000 \\ &\quad - \$12,500,000 \\ &= \$212,500,000 \\ \end{aligned}


Enterprise Value​=($10,000,000×$17.50)+($20,000,000+$30,000,000)−($125,000,000×0.1)=$175,000,000+$50,000,000−$12,500,000=$212,500,000​﻿﻿



Next, to find the EV/R, simply take the EV and divide it by the revenue for the year:



﻿







EV/R








=




$


212


,


500


,


000




$


85


,


000


,


000


















=


2.5







\begin{aligned} \text{EV/R} &= \frac{ \$212,500,000 }{ \$85,000,000 }\\ &= 2.5 \\ \end{aligned}


EV/R​=$85,000,000$212,500,000​=2.5​﻿﻿



Enterprise value can be calculated using a slightly more complicated formula that includes a few more variables. Some analysts prefer this method over the more simplified version. The version of enterprise value with added terms is:



﻿














Enterprise Value


=


MC


+


D


+


PSC


+


MI


−


CC
















where:
















PSC


=


Preferred shared capital
















MI


=


Minority interest 







\begin{aligned} &\text{Enterprise Value} = \text{MC} + \text{D} + \text{PSC} + \text{MI} - \text{CC} \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{PSC} = \text{Preferred shared capital} \\ &\text{MI} = \text{Minority interest }\\ \end{aligned}


​Enterprise Value=MC+D+PSC+MI−CCwhere:PSC=Preferred shared capitalMI=Minority interest ​﻿﻿



As a real-life example, consider the major retail sector, notably Wal-Mart (NYSE: WMT), Target (NYSE: TGT), and Big Lots (NYSE: BIG). The enterprise values of Wal-Mart, Target, and Big Lots are $433.9 billion, $79.33 billion, and $3.36 billion, respectively, as of Aug. 15, 2020.﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿



Meanwhile, the three have revenues over the trailing 12 months of $534.66 billion, $80.1 billion, and $5.47 billion, respectively. Dividing each of their enterprise values by revenues means Wal-Mart’s EV/R is 0.81, Target’s is 0.99, and Big Lots’ is 0.61.﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿


   The Difference Between Enterprise Value-to-Revenue Multiple (EV/R) and Enterprise Value-to-EBITDA (EV/EBITDA)  

The enterprise value-to-revenue (EV/R) looks at a companies revenue-generating ability, while the enterprise value-to-EBITDA (EV/EBITDA)—also known as the enterprise multiple—looks at a company’s ability to generate operating cash flows.



EV/EBITDA takes into account operating expenses, while EV/R looks at just the top line. The advantage that EV/R has is that it can be used for companies that are yet to generate income or profits, such as the case with Amazon (AMZN) in its early days.


   Limitations of Using Enterprise Value-to-Revenue Multiple (EV/R)  

The enterprise value-to-revenue multiple should be used to compare companies in the same industry, and as a benchmark of the ratio from best in breed in the industry to know whether the ratio represents a good performance or poor one.



Also, unlike market cap, which is readily available on the likes of Yahoo! Finance, the EV/R multiple requires calculating the enterprise value. This requires adding the debt and subtracting out the cash and could involve additional factors if using the expanded version.
What Is Enterprise Value-to-Sales (EV/Sales)?  

Enterprise value-to-sales (EV/sales) is a financial valuation measure that compares the enterprise value (EV) of a company to its annual sales. The EV/sales multiple gives investors a quantifiable metric of how to value a company based on its sales while taking account of both the company's equity and debt.





Key Takeaways

Enterprise value-to-sales (EV/sales) is a financial ratio that measures how much it would cost to purchase a company's value in terms of its sales.A lower EV/sales multiple indicates that a company is a more attractive investment as it may be relatively undervalued.This measurement is considered more accurate than the related price-to-sales because EV/sales takes into account a company's debt load.


   The Formula for Enterprise Value-to-Sales  

﻿















EV/Sales


=




MC


+


D


−


CC




Annual Sales


















where:
















MC


=


Market capitalization
















D


=


Debt
















CC


=


Cash and cash equivalents








\begin{aligned} &\text{EV/Sales} = \frac{ \text{MC} + \text{D} - \text{CC} }{ \text{Annual Sales} } \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{MC} = \text{Market capitalization} \\ &\text{D} = \text{Debt} \\ &\text{CC} = \text{Cash and cash equivalents} \\ \end{aligned}


​EV/Sales=Annual SalesMC+D−CC​where:MC=Market capitalizationD=DebtCC=Cash and cash equivalents​﻿


   How to Calculate Enterprise Value-to-Sales  

Enterprise value-to-sales is calculated by:



Adding total debt to a company’s market capSubtracting out cash and cash equivalentsAnd then dividing the result by the company’s annual sales



A slightly more complicated version of enterprise value with a few more variables is sometimes used. The more complex formula for EV is:



﻿















EV


=


MC


+


D


+


PS


+


MI


−


CC
















where:
















PS


=


Preferred shares
















MI


=


Minority interest








\begin{aligned} &\text{EV} = \text{MC} + \text{D} + \text{PS} + \text{MI} - \text{CC} \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{PS} = \text{Preferred shares} \\ &\text{MI} = \text{Minority interest} \\ \end{aligned}


​EV=MC+D+PS+MI−CCwhere:PS=Preferred sharesMI=Minority interest​﻿


   What Does Enterprise Value-to-Sales Tell You?  

Enterprise value-to-sales is an expansion of the price-to-sales (P/S) valuation, the latter of which uses market capitalization instead of enterprise value. EV/Sales is perceived to be more accurate than P/S, in part, because the market capitalization alone does not take a company's debt into account when valuing the company, while enterprise value does.



EV-to-sales multiples are usually found to be between 1x and 3x. Generally, a lower EV/sales multiple will indicate that a company may be more attractive or undervalued in the market. The EV/sales measure can also be negative when the cash balance of the company is greater than the market capitalization and debt structure, signaling that the company can essentially be bought with its own cash.



The EV-to-sales measure can, however, be slightly deceptive in that a higher multiple is not always a signal of over-valuation. A high EV-to-sales can be a positive sign that investors believe that future sales will greatly increase. A lower EV-to-sales can likewise signal that future sales prospects are not very attractive.



To make the most out of this metric, compare the EV-to-sales to that of other companies in the same industry, and look deeper into the company you are analyzing.


   Example of How to Use Enterprise Value-to-Sales  

Assume that a company reports sales for the year of $70 million. The company has $10 million of short-term liabilities on the books and $25 million of long-term liabilities. It has $90 million worth of assets, with 20% of that in cash. Lastly, the company has 5 million shares of common stock outstanding and the current price of the stock is $25 per share. Using this scenario, the company's enterprise value is:











EV








=


Market Cap (5 Million Shares


×


$25 Stock Price)

















+


Total Debt ($10 Million


+


$25 Million)

















−


Cash ($90 Million


×


20


%


)
















=


$


125


 Million


+


$


35


 Million


−


$


18


 Million
















=


$


142


 Million







\begin{aligned} \text{EV} &= \text{Market Cap (5 Million Shares} \times \text{\$25 Stock Price)} \\ &\quad + \text{Total Debt (\$10 Million} + \text{\$25 Million)} \\ &\quad - \text{Cash (\$90 Million} \times 20\%) \\ &= \$125 \text{ Million} + \$35 \text{ Million} - \$18 \text{ Million} \\ &= \$142 \text{ Million} \end{aligned}


EV​=Market Cap (5 Million Shares×$25 Stock Price)+Total Debt ($10 Million+$25 Million)−Cash ($90 Million×20%)=$125 Million+$35 Million−$18 Million=$142 Million​



Next, to find the EV-to-sales, simply divide the calculated enterprise value by sales. In this example, the EV-to-sales is:


















EV/Sales


=




$


142


 Million




$


70


 Million




=


2.03







\begin{aligned} &\text{EV/Sales} = \frac{ \$142 \text{ Million} }{ \$70 \text{ Million} } = 2.03 \\ \end{aligned}


​EV/Sales=$70 Million$142 Million​=2.03​



Taking the EV/sales ratio a step further, consider Coca-Cola. The company has a market cap of $237 billion as of Dec. 31, 2019.



Its total debt as of Dec. 31, 2019, was $42.8 billion.
Cash and cash equivalents are $6.5 billion as of December 31, 2019.
Sales over the trailing 12 months for Coca-Cola have been $37.2 billion. 
EV for Coca-Cola is $273.3 billion, or $237 billion + $42.8 billion - $6.5 billion.



EV/sales = 7.3x, or $273.3 billion / $37.2 billion.


   Enterprise Value-to-Sales vs. Price-to-Sales  

The EV-to-sales ratio takes into account the debt and cash a company has. The price-to-sales ratio, meanwhile, does not. The price-to-sales ratio is quicker to calculate, using only a company’s market cap as the numerator. However, debtholders do have a claim on sales and should theoretically be included in the valuation.


   Limitations of Using Enterprise Value-to-Sales  

The EV/sales ratio requires calculating the enterprise value, which involves a little more digging into financial statements. EV is generally used for valuing acquisitions, where the acquirer will assume the debt of the company, but also get the cash. Another limitation to be aware of is that sales do not take into account a company’s expenses or taxes.
What Is the Entity Theory?  

The entity theory is a legal theory and accounting concept that all of the business activity conducted by any corporation or limited liability business is separate from that of its owners. The entity theory has two aspects. In accounting, it means that business and personal accounts, transactions, assets, and liabilities should be accounted for under separate and district entities independently of the owners' personal finances. In business law, it means that, under the premise of limited liability, the owners of a business that is structured as a separate entity should not be held personally liable for the liabilities incurred by the business.



Despite some criticisms, due in large part to its fictitious nature and the agency problems it creates in practice, the entity theory has been invaluable to limited liability company (LLC) accounting practices and the status of corporations today as juridical persons.





Key Takeaways

The entity theory is the legal and accounting doctrine that treats business firms as separate entities from their owners and other stakeholders.The entity theory allows the calculation of profits and losses among a set of related transactions and the formation of corporations and limited liability companies.The entity theory may be criticized for its inherent detachment from reality and its possible contribution to agency problems.


   Understanding the Entity Theory  

Under the entity theory, an individual or group of people working together as a business firm is treated as a separate legal and accounting entity, essentially creating a fictional person. Anyone who does business with that individual or group is considered in the legal and accounting senses to be doing business with the firm rather than the people with whom they are actually dealing.



This allows both 1) the collective accounting for transactions, and 2) the legal ownership and responsibility for assets and liabilities to be recorded and adjudicated separately from any other activities that the members of the firm engage in. Grouping the accounting of transactions together under separate entities means that profits (or losses) and the net value of relevant assets can be calculated more easily in order to facilitate rational economic decision-making.



Making business firms fictional persons in the eyes of the law means that firms can own assets and property, issue debt (borrow money), enter into contracts, and so on. Firms can also be sued, without also suing the ownership and management personally.



Under the entity theory, the accounting equation for a business balance sheet depicts the firm as an entity (the sum total of its assets) on one side of the equation, against two separate entities, the stockholders (who hold the firm's equity) and the creditor (who hold the firm's liabilities or debts):


















Assets


=


Liabilities


+


Stockholders’ Equity
















where:
















Liabilities


=


All current and long-term
















debts and obligations
















Stockholders’ Equity


=


Assets available to
















shareholders after all liabilities







\begin{aligned} &\text{Assets} = \text{Liabilities} + \text{Stockholders' Equity}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{Liabilities} = \text{All current and long-term} \\ &\text{debts and obligations}\\ &\text{Stockholders' Equity} = \text{Assets available to} \\ &\text{shareholders after all liabilities}\\ \end{aligned}


​Assets=Liabilities+Stockholders’ Equitywhere:Liabilities=All current and long-termdebts and obligationsStockholders’ Equity=Assets available toshareholders after all liabilities​



This can be contrasted to the equation for the balance sheet equation of a sole proprietorship or non-limited liability company or the net worth of an individual, which depicts the value of the business (or individual) as the difference between the assets that they own and the debts that they are liable for, all as a single legal and accounting entity.



By insulating owners of a business from full liability for the actions of business, the application of the entity theory facilitates the concentration of productive assets under the control of managers and employees of a business who usually have more specialized knowledge and skills as to how to apply those assets profitably.



Limiting owner's liability is a way to induce them to entrust control over their assets to managers who can use them more productively than the owners themselves can, increasing opportunities for cooperative business activities that produce value for all the individuals involved.


   Criticisms of the Entity Theory  

Though the basic concept of the entity theory has been circulating since at least the 19th century and is the prevailing manner in which business is conducted and accounted for all over the world, it is not always intuitively understood by many people. This is mainly due to the somewhat obvious problem that it requires that people believe, or at least pretend to believe, in imaginary entities that exist only on paper in accounting statements and legal documents.



In reality, a company is not itself an independent entity, but a collective pretense of the owners, managers, employees, and other stakeholders involved in business transactions with them. However, entity theory requires that real people, at least in their business and legal dealings, act as if they believe that imaginary people really exist. This legal and accounting pretense is designed to help keep track of and protect profits that the business generates and encourage productive investment, though it may seem almost like magic or perhaps voluntary insanity.



This profit is invariably linked to the owners' wallets, but the application of entity theory in accounting and law shields those wallets from the full costs and risks that the business also generates. The second criticism of entity theory is that it can create and exacerbate agency problems by separating ownership—claims on profits—from control over the actual business activities that generate those profits.



Owners who are insulated, in an accounting sense but especially in a legal sense, from full liability for the costs and risks that their business creates simply have less incentive to care if a firm incurs debts it cannot pay or imposes costs and risks on outsiders and bystanders (which economists call externalities). Employees and managers likewise have less incentive to care if their actions harm the interests of the owners or third parties when they know that the owners' risk is limited and that their own risk of loss is similarly limited to the risk of losing their jobs.
What Is an Entrepreneur?  

An entrepreneur is an individual who creates a new business, bearing most of the risks and enjoying most of the rewards. The process of setting up a business is known as entrepreneurship.



Entrepreneurs play a key role in any economy, using the skills and initiative necessary to anticipate needs and bring new ideas to market. Entrepreneurship that proves to be successful in taking on the risks of creating a startup is rewarded with profits and growth opportunities.





Key Takeaways

A person who undertakes the risk of starting a new business venture is called an entrepreneur.An entrepreneur creates a firm to realize their idea, known as entrepreneurship, which aggregates capital and labor in order to produce goods or services for profit.Entrepreneurship is highly risky but also can be highly rewarding, as it serves to generate economic wealth, growth, and innovation.Ensuring funding is key for entrepreneurs: Financing resources include Small Business Administration loans and crowdfunding.The way entrepreneurs file and pay taxes will depend on how the business is set up in terms of structure.












Investopedia / Yurle Villegas


   Why Are Entrepreneurs Important?  

Entrepreneurship is one of the resources economists categorize as integral to production, the other three being land/natural resources, labor, and capital. An entrepreneur combines the first three of these to manufacture goods or provide services. They typically create a business plan, hire labor, acquire resources and financing, and provide leadership and management for the business.



Economists have never had a consistent definition of "entrepreneur" or "entrepreneurship" (the word "entrepreneur" comes from the French verb entreprendre, meaning "to undertake"). Though the concept of an entrepreneur existed and was known for centuries, the classical and neoclassical economists left entrepreneurs out of their formal models. They assumed that perfect information would be known to fully rational actors, leaving no room for risk-taking or discovery. It wasn't until the middle of the 20th century that economists seriously attempted to incorporate entrepreneurship into their models.



Three thinkers were central to the inclusion of entrepreneurs: Joseph Schumpeter, Frank Knight, and Israel Kirzner. Schumpeter suggested that entrepreneurs—not just companies—were responsible for the creation of new things in the search for profit. Knight focused on entrepreneurs as the bearers of uncertainty and believed they were responsible for risk premiums in financial markets. Kirzner thought of entrepreneurship as a process that led to the discovery of opportunities.



Fast-forward to today, entrepreneurs commonly face many obstacles when building their companies. The three that many of them cite as the most challenging include overcoming bureaucracy, hiring talent, and obtaining financing.


   What Are Different Types of Entrepreneurs?  

Not every entrepreneur is the same and not all have the same goals. Here are a few types of entrepreneurs:


  Builder  

Builders seek to create scalable businesses within a short time frame. Builders typically pass $5 million in revenue in the first two to four years and continue to build up until $100 million or beyond. These individuals seek to build out a strong infrastructure by hiring the best talent and seeking the best investors. Sometimes, they have temperamental personalities that are suited to the fast growth they desire but may make personal and business relationships difficult.


  Opportunist  

Opportunistic entrepreneurs are optimistic individuals with the ability to pick out financial opportunities, get in at the right time, stay on board during the time of growth, and exit when a business hits its peak.



These types of entrepreneurs are concerned with profits and the wealth they will build, so they are attracted to ideas where they can create residual or renewal income. Because they are looking to find well-timed opportunities, opportunistic entrepreneurs can be impulsive.


  Innovator  

Innovators are those rare individuals that come up with a great idea or product that no one has thought of before. Think of Thomas Edison, Steve Jobs, and Mark Zuckerberg. These individuals worked on what they loved and found business opportunities through their vision and ideas.



Rather than focusing on money, innovators tend to care more about the impact that their products and services have on society. These individuals are not the best at running a business as they are idea-generating individuals, so they often leave the day-to-day operations to those more capable in that respect.


  Specialist  

These individuals are analytical and risk-averse. They have a strong skill set in a specific area obtained through education or apprenticeship. A specialist entrepreneur will build out their business through networking and referrals, sometimes resulting in slower growth than a builder entrepreneur.


   4 Types of Entrepreneurship  

As there are different types of entrepreneurs, there are also different types of businesses they create. Below are the main different types of entrepreneurship.


  Small-business  

Small business entrepreneurship refers to opening a business without turning it into a large conglomerate or opening many chains. A single-location restaurant, one grocery shop, or a retail shop to sell goods or services would all be examples of small business entrepreneurship.



These people usually invest their own money and succeed if their businesses turn a profit, which serves as their income. Sometimes, they don't have outside investors and will only take a loan if it helps continue the business.


  Scalable startup  

These are companies that start with a unique idea that can be built to a large scale—think Silicon Valley. The hopes are to innovate with a unique product or service and continue growing the company, continuously scaling up over time. These types of companies often require investors and large amounts of capital to grow their idea and expand into multiple markets.


  Large-company  

Large company entrepreneurship is a new business division created within an existing company. The existing company may be well placed to branch out into other sectors or it may be positioned well to become involved in new technology.



CEOs of these companies either foresee a new market for the company or individuals within the company generate ideas that they bring to senior management to start the process and development.


   Social entrepreneurship  

The goal of social entrepreneurship is to create a benefit to society and humankind. This form of business focuses on helping communities or the environment through their products and services. They are not driven by profits but rather by helping the world around them.


   How to Become an Entrepreneur  

After retiring her professional dancing shoes, Judi Sheppard Missett became an entrepreneur by teaching a dance class in order to earn some extra cash. But she soon learned that women who came to her studio were less interested in learning precise steps than they were in losing weight and toning up. Sheppard Missett then trained instructors to teach her routines to the masses, and Jazzercise was born. Soon, a franchise deal followed and today, the company has more than 8,300 locations worldwide.



Following an ice cream–making correspondence course, two entrepreneurs, Jerry Greenfield and Ben Cohen, paired $8,000 in savings with a $4,000 loan, leased a Burlington, Vt., gas station, and purchased equipment to create uniquely flavored ice cream for the local market. Today, Ben & Jerry’s hauls in millions in annual revenue.



In the 21st century, the example of Internet giants like Alphabet, the parent company to Google (GOOG), and Meta (META; formerly Facebook), both of which have made their founders wildly wealthy, have been clear examples of the lasting impact of entrepreneurs on society.



Unlike traditional professions, where there is often a defined path to follow, the road to entrepreneurship is mystifying to most. What works for one entrepreneur might not work for the next and vice versa. That said, there are seven general steps that many successful entrepreneurs have followed:


  Ensure financial stability  

This first step is not a strict requirement but is definitely recommended. While entrepreneurs have built successful businesses while being less than financially flush, starting out with an adequate cash supply and stable ongoing funding is a great foundation.



This increases an entrepreneur's personal financial runway and gives them more time to work on building a successful business, rather than worrying about having to keep raising money or paying back short-term loans.


  Build a diverse skill set  

Once a person has strong finances, it is important to build a diverse set of skills and then apply those skills in the real world. The beauty of step two is it can be done concurrently with step one.



Building a skill set can be achieved through learning and trying new tasks in real-world settings. For example, if an aspiring entrepreneur has a background in finance, they can move into a sales role at their existing company to learn the soft skills necessary to be successful. Once a diverse skill set is built, it gives an entrepreneur a toolkit that they can rely on when they are faced with the inevitability of tough situations.



Much has been discussed about whether going to college is necessary to become a successful entrepreneur. Many well-known entrepreneurs are famous for having dropped out of college: Steve Jobs, Mark Zuckerberg, and Larry Ellison, to name a few.



Though going to college isn't necessary to build a successful business, it can teach young individuals a lot about the world in many other ways. And these famous college dropouts are the exception rather than the norm. College may not be for everyone and the choice is personal, but it is something to think about, especially with the high price tag of a college education in the U.S.


  Consume content across multiple channels  

As important as developing a diverse skill set is, the need to consume a diverse array of information and knowledge-building materials is equally so. This content can be in the form of podcasts, books, articles, or lectures. The important thing is that the content, no matter the channel, should be varied in what it covers. Aspiring entrepreneurs should always familiarize themselves with the world around them so they can look at industries with a fresh perspective, giving them the ability to build a business around a specific sector.


  Identify a problem to solve  

Through the consumption of content across multiple channels, an aspiring entrepreneur is able to identify various problems in need of solutions. One business adage dictates that a company's product or service needs to solve a specific pain point, either for another business or for a consumer group. Through the identification of a problem, an aspiring entrepreneur is able to build a business around solving that problem.



It is important to combine steps three and four so it is possible to identify a problem to solve by looking at various industries as an outsider. This often provides an aspiring entrepreneur with the ability to see a problem others might not.


  Solve That Problem  

Successful startups solve a specific pain point for other companies or for the public. This is known as "adding value within the problem." Only through adding value to a specific problem or pain point does an entrepreneur become successful.



Say, for example, you identify that the process for making a dental appointment is complicated for patients, and dentists are losing customers as a result. The value could be to build an online appointment system that makes it easier to book appointments.


  Network like crazy  

Most entrepreneurs can't do it alone. The business world is a cutthroat one and getting any help you can will likely help and reduce the time it takes to achieve a successful business. Networking is critical for any new entrepreneur. Meeting the right people who can introduce you to contacts in your industry, such as the right suppliers, financiers, and even mentors, can mean the difference between success and failure.



Attending conferences, emailing and calling people in the industry, speaking to your cousin's friend's brother who is in a similar business, will help you get out into the world and discover people who can guide you. Once you have your foot in the door with the right people, conducting a business becomes easier.


  Lead by example  

Every entrepreneur needs to be a leader within their company. Simply doing the day-to-day requirements will not lead to success. A leader needs to work hard, motivate, and inspire their employees to reach their best potential, which will lead to the success of the company.



Look at some of the greatest and most successful companies; all of them have had great leaders. Apple and Steve Jobs, Bill Gates and Microsoft, Bob Iger and Disney, are just a few examples. Study these people and read their books to see how to be a great leader and become the leader that your employees can follow by the example you set.


   Entrepreneurship Financing  

Given the riskiness of a new venture, the acquisition of capital funding is particularly challenging, and many entrepreneurs deal with it via bootstrapping: financing a business using methods such as using their own money, providing sweat equity to reduce labor costs, minimizing inventory, and factoring receivables.



While some entrepreneurs are lone players struggling to get small businesses off the ground on a shoestring, others take on partners armed with greater access to capital and other resources. In these situations, new firms may acquire financing from venture capitalists, angel investors, hedge funds, crowdfunding, or through more traditional sources such as bank loans.


  Resources for entrepreneurs  

There are a variety of financing resources for entrepreneurs starting their own businesses. Obtaining a small business loan through the Small Business Administration (SBA) can help entrepreneurs get the business off the ground with affordable loans. Here, the SBA helps connect businesses to loan providers.



If entrepreneurs are willing to give up a piece of equity in their business, then they may find financing in the form of angel investors and venture capitalists. These types of investors also provide guidance, mentorship, and connections in addition to capital.



Crowdfunding has also become a popular way for entrepreneurs to raise capital, particularly through Kickstarter or Indiegogo. In this way, an entrepreneur creates a page for their product and a monetary goal to reach while promising certain givebacks to those who donate, such as products or experiences.


  Bootstrapping for entrepreneurs  

Bootstrapping refers to building a company solely from your savings as an entrepreneur as well as from the initial sales made from your business. This is a difficult process as all the financial risk is placed on the entrepreneur and there is little room for error. If the business fails, the entrepreneur also may lose all of their life savings.



The advantage of bootstrapping is that an entrepreneur can run the business with their own vision and no outside interference or investors demanding quick profits. That being said, sometimes having an outsider's assistance can help a business rather than hurt it. Many companies have succeeded with a bootstrapping strategy, but it is a difficult path.


  Small business vs. entrepreneurship  

A small business and entrepreneurship have a lot in common but they are different. A small business is a company—usually, a sole-proprietorship or partnership—that is not a medium-sized or large-sized business, operates locally, and does not have access to a vast amount of resources or capital.



Entrepreneurship is when an individual who has an idea acts on that idea, usually to disrupt the current market with a new product or service. Entrepreneurship usually starts as a small business but the long-term vision is much greater, to seek high profits and capture market share with an innovative new idea.


  How entrepreneurs make money  

Entrepreneurs seek to generate revenues that are greater than costs. Increasing revenues is the goal and that can be achieved through marketing, word-of-mouth, and networking. Keeping costs low is also critical as it results in higher profit margins. This can be achieved through efficient operations and eventually economies of scale.


  How do taxes work for entrepreneurs?  

The taxes you will pay as an entrepreneur will depend on how you structure your business.



Sole proprietorship: A business set up this way is an extension of the individual. Business income and expenses are filed on Schedule C on your U.S. personal tax return and you are taxed at your individual tax rate.



Partnership: For tax purposes, a partnership functions the same way as a sole proprietorship in the U.S., with the only difference being that income and expenses are split amongst the partners.






Entrepreneurs operating as sole proprietors can deduct any legitimate business expenses from their income to lower their tax bill. This includes expenses such as their home office and utilities, mileage for business travel, advertising, and travel expenses.



C-corporation: A C-corporation is a separate legal entity and has separate taxes filed with the IRS from the entrepreneur. The business income will be taxed at the corporate tax rate rather than the personal income tax rate.



Limited liability company (LLC) or S-corporation: These two options are taxed in the same manner as a C-corporation but usually at lower amounts.


   7 Characteristics of Entrepreneurs  

What else do entrepreneurial success stories have in common? They invariably involve industrious people diving into things they’re naturally passionate about.



Giving credence to the adage, “find a way to get paid for the job you’d do for free,” passion is arguably the most important attribute entrepreneurs must have, and every edge helps.



While the prospect of becoming your own boss and raking in a fortune is alluring to entrepreneurial dreamers, the possible downside to hanging out one’s own shingle is vast. Income isn’t guaranteed, employer-sponsored benefits go by the wayside, and when your business loses money, your personal assets can take a hit; it's not a corporation’s bottom line. But adhering to a few tried and true principles can go a long way in diffusing risk. The following are a few characteristics required to be a successful entrepreneur.


  1. Versatility  

When starting out, it’s essential to personally handle sales and other customer interactions whenever possible. Direct client contact is the clearest path to obtaining honest feedback about what the target market likes and what you could be doing better. If it’s not always practical to be the sole customer interface, entrepreneurs should train employees to invite customer comments as a matter of course. Not only does this make customers feel empowered, but happier clients are more likely to recommend businesses to others.



Personally answering phones is one of the most significant competitive edges home-based entrepreneurs hold over their larger competitors. In a time of high-tech backlash, where customers are frustrated with automated responses and touch-tone menus, hearing a human voice is one surefire way to entice new customers and make existing ones feel appreciated—an important fact, given that a significant percentage of business is generated from repeat customers.



Paradoxically, while customers value high-touch telephone access, they also expect a highly polished website. Even if your business isn’t in a high-tech industry, entrepreneurs still must exploit internet technology to get their message across. A startup garage-based business can have a superior website to an established company valued at $100 million. Just make sure a live human being is on the other end of the phone number listed.


  2. Flexibility  

Few successful business owners find perfect formulas straight out of the gate. On the contrary: ideas must morph over time. Whether tweaking product design or altering food items on a menu, finding the perfect sweet spot takes trial and error.



Former Starbucks Chair and CEO Howard Schultz initially thought playing Italian opera music over store speakers would accentuate the Italian coffeehouse experience he was attempting to replicate. But customers saw things differently and didn’t seem to like arias with their espressos. As a result, Schultz jettisoned the opera and introduced comfortable chairs instead.


  3. Money savviness  

At the heart of any successful new business, is steady cash flow, which is essential for purchasing inventory, paying rent, maintaining equipment, and promoting the business. The key to staying in the black is rigorous, regular cash flow management. And since most new businesses don’t make a profit within the first year, by setting money aside for this contingency, entrepreneurs can help mitigate the risk of falling short of funds. Related to this, it’s essential to keep personal and business costs separate, and never dip into business funds to cover the costs of daily living.



Of course, it’s important to pay yourself a realistic salary that allows you to cover essentials, but not much more—especially where investors are involved. Of course, such sacrifices can strain relationships with loved ones who may need to adjust to lower standards of living and endure worry over risking family assets. For this reason, entrepreneurs should communicate these issues well ahead of time, and make sure significant loved ones are on board.


  4. Resiliency  

Running your own business is extremely difficult, especially getting one started from scratch. It requires a lot of time, dedication, and often failure. A successful entrepreneur must show resilience to all the difficulties on the road ahead. Whenever they meet with failure or rejection they must keep pushing forward.



Starting your business is a learning process and any learning process comes with a learning curve, which can be frustrating, especially when money is on the line. It's important never to give up through the difficult times if you want to succeed.


  5. Focus  

Similar to resilience, a successful entrepreneur must stay focused and eliminate the noise and doubts that come with running a business. Becoming sidetracked, not believing in your instincts and ideas, and losing sight of the end goal is a recipe for failure. A successful entrepreneur must always remember why they started the business and remain on course to see it through.


  6. Business smarts  

Knowing how to manage money and understanding financial statements are critical for anyone running their own business. Knowing your revenues, your costs, and how to increase or decrease them, respectively, is important. Making sure you don't burn through cash will allow you to keep the business alive.



Implementing a sound business strategy, knowing your target market, your competitors, and your strengths and weaknesses will allow you to maneuver the difficult landscape of running your business.


  7. Communication skills  

Successful communication is important in almost every facet of life, regardless of what you do. It is also of the utmost importance in running a business. From conveying your ideas and strategies to potential investors to sharing your business plan with your employees and negotiating contracts with suppliers—all require successful communication.


   Entrepreneurship in Economics  

In economist-speak, an entrepreneur acts as a coordinating agent in a capitalist economy. This coordination takes the form of resources being diverted toward new potential profit opportunities. The entrepreneur moves various resources, both tangible and intangible, promoting capital formation.



In a market full of uncertainty, it is the entrepreneur who can actually help clear up uncertainty, as they make judgments or assume risk. To the extent that capitalism is a dynamic profit-and-loss system, entrepreneurs drive efficient discovery and consistently reveal knowledge.



Established firms face increased competition and challenges from entrepreneurs, which often spurs them toward research and development efforts as well. In technical economic terms, the entrepreneur disrupts the course toward steady-state equilibrium.






In 2022, there were 33.2 million small businesses in the United States.


  How entrepreneurship helps economies  

Nurturing entrepreneurship can have a positive impact on an economy and society in several ways. For starters, entrepreneurs create new businesses. They invent goods and services, resulting in employment, and often create a ripple effect, resulting in more and more development. For example, after a few information technology companies began in India in the 1990s, businesses in associated industries, like call center operations and hardware providers, began to develop too, offering support services and products.



Entrepreneurs add to the gross national income. Existing businesses may remain confined to their markets and eventually hit an income ceiling. But new products or technologies create new markets and new wealth. Additionally, increased employment and higher earnings contribute to a nation’s tax base, enabling greater government spending on public projects.



Entrepreneurs create social change. They break tradition with unique inventions that reduce dependence on existing methods and systems, sometimes rendering them obsolete. Smartphones and their apps, for example, have revolutionized work and play across the globe.



Entrepreneurs invest in community projects and help charities and other non-profit organizations, supporting causes beyond their own. Bill Gates, for example, has used his considerable wealth for education and public health initiatives.


  Entrepreneurial ecosystems  

Research shows that high levels of self-employment can stall economic development: Entrepreneurship, if not properly regulated, can lead to unfair market practices and corruption, and too many entrepreneurs can create income inequalities in society. Overall, though, entrepreneurship is a critical driver of innovation and economic growth. Therefore, fostering entrepreneurship is an important part of the economic growth strategies of many local and national governments around the world.



To this end, governments commonly assist in the development of entrepreneurial ecosystems, which may include entrepreneurs themselves, government-sponsored assistance programs, and venture capitalists. They may also include non-government organizations, such as entrepreneurs' associations, business incubators, and education programs.



California's Silicon Valley is often cited as an example of a well-functioning entrepreneurial ecosystem. The region has a well-developed venture capital base, a large pool of well-educated talent, especially in technical fields, and a wide range of government and non-government programs fostering new ventures and providing information and support to entrepreneurs.


   Questions for Entrepreneurs  

Embarking on the entrepreneurial career path to “being your own boss” is exciting. But along with all your research, make sure to do your homework about yourself and your situation.


  A few questions to ask yourself:  

Do I have the personality, temperament, and mindset of taking on the world on my own terms?Do I have the required resources to devote all my time to my venture?Do I have an exit plan ready with a clearly defined timeline in case my venture does not work?Do I have a concrete plan for the next "x" number of months or will I face challenges midway due to family, financial, or other commitments? Do I have a mitigation plan for those challenges?Do I have the required network to seek help and advice as needed?Have I identified and built bridges with experienced mentors to learn from their expertise?Have I prepared the rough draft of a complete risk assessment, including dependencies on external factors?Have I realistically assessed the potential of my offering and how it will figure in the existing market?If my offering is going to replace an existing product in the market, how will my competitors react?To keep my offering secure, will it make sense to get a patent? Do I have the capacity to wait until I receive it?Have I identified my target customer base for the initial phase? Do I have scalability plans ready for larger markets?Have I identified sales and distribution channels?


  Questions that delve into external factors:  

Does my entrepreneurial venture meet local regulations and laws? If not feasible locally, can I and should I relocate to another region?How long does it take to get the necessary license or permissions from concerned authorities? Can I survive that long?Do I have a plan for getting the necessary resources and skilled employees, and have I made cost considerations for the same?What are the tentative timelines for bringing the first prototype to market or for services to be operational?Who are my primary customers?Who are the funding sources I may need to approach to make this big? Is my venture good enough to convince potential stakeholders?What technical infrastructure do I need?Once the business is established, will I have sufficient funds to get resources and take it to the next level? Will other big firms copy my model and kill my operation?




What Does It Mean to Be an Entrepreneur?
An entrepreneur is an individual who starts their own business based on an idea they have or a product they have created while assuming most of the risks and reaping most of the rewards of the business.




What Is the Best Definition of Entrepreneurship?
Entrepreneurship is the process of setting up a business, taking it from an idea to realization.




What Are the Four Types of Entrepreneurs?
Four types of entrepreneurs include builders, opportunists, innovators, and specialists.




What Are the Seven Characteristics of Entrepreneurs?
Seven primary characteristics among entrepreneurs include versatility, resilience, flexibility, money-savviness, business smarts, focus, and having strong communication skills.


   The Bottom Line  

An entrepreneur is an individual who takes an idea or product and creates a business, a process known as entrepreneurship. Creating a business requires a lot of work and dedication, which not everyone is cut out for. Entrepreneurs are often young, highly motivated risk-takers who have a vision and often sacrifice a lot to achieve that vision.



Entrepreneurs enter the market because they love what they do, believe their product will have a positive impact, and hope to make profits from their efforts. The steps entrepreneurs take fuel the economy; they create businesses that employ people and make products and services that consumers buy today.
What Is an Envelope?  

Envelopes are technical indicators that are typically plotted over a price chart with upper and lower bounds. The most common example of an envelope is a moving average envelope, which is created using two moving averages that define upper and lower price range levels.



Envelopes are commonly used to help traders and investors identify extreme overbought and oversold conditions as well as trading ranges.





Key Takeaways

An envelope, in technical analysis, refers to trend lines plotted both above and below the current price.An envelope's upper and lower bands are typically generated by a simple moving average and a pre-determined distance above and below the moving average—but can be created using any number of other techniques.Many traders react to a sell signal when the price reaches or crosses the upper band and a buy signal when the price reaches or crosses the lower band of an envelope channel.


   How Envelopes Work  

Traders can interpret envelopes in many different ways, but most use them to define trading ranges. When the price reaches the upper bound, the security is considered overbought, and a sell signal is generated. Conversely, when the price reaches the lower bound, the security is considered oversold, and a buy signal is generated. These strategies are based on mean reversion principles.



The upper and lower bounds are typically defined such that the price tends to stay within the upper and lower thresholds during normal conditions. For a volatile security, traders may use higher percentages when creating the envelope to avoid whipsaw trading signals. Meanwhile, less volatile securities may necessitate lower percentages to create a sufficient number of trading signals.



Envelopes are commonly used in conjunction with other forms of technical analysis to enhance the odds of success. For example, traders may identify potential opportunities when the price moves outside of the envelope and then look at chart patterns or volume metrics to identify when a tipping point is about to occur. After all, securities can trade at overbought or oversold conditions for a prolonged period of time.


   Example of an Envelope  

Moving average envelopes are the most common type of envelope indicator. Using either a simple or exponential moving average, an envelope is created by defining a fixed percentage to create upper and lower bounds. 



Let's take a look at a five percent simple moving average envelope for the S&P 500 SPDR (SPY):












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



The calculations for this envelope are:


















Upper Bound


=



SMA


50



+



SMA


50



∗


0.05
















Lower Bound


=



SMA


50



−



SMA


50



∗


0.05
















Midpoint


=



SMA


50

















where:





















SMA


50



=


50-day Simple Moving Average







\begin{aligned} &\text{Upper Bound} = \text{SMA}_{50} + \text{SMA}_{50}*0.05\\ &\text{Lower Bound} = \text{SMA}_{50} - \text{SMA}_{50}*0.05\\ &\text{Midpoint} = \text{SMA}_{50}\\ \\ \textbf{where:}&\\ &\text{SMA}_{50}=\text{50-day Simple Moving Average} \\ \end{aligned}


where:​Upper Bound=SMA50​+SMA50​∗0.05Lower Bound=SMA50​−SMA50​∗0.05Midpoint=SMA50​SMA50​=50-day Simple Moving Average​



Traders may have taken a short position in the exchange-traded fund when the price moved beyond the upper range and a long position when the price moved below the lower range. In these cases, the trader would have benefited from the reversion to the mean over the following periods.



Traders may set stop-loss points at a fixed percentage beyond the upper and lower bounds, while take-profit points are often set at the midpoint line.
What Is Environmental Economics?  

Environmental economics is the study of the cost-effective allocation, use, and protection of the world's natural resources.



Economics, broadly speaking, is the study of how humans produce and consume goods and services. Environmental economics focuses on how they use and manage finite resources in a manner that serves the population while meeting concerns about environmental impact.



This helps governments weigh the pros and cons of alternative measures and design appropriate environmental policies.





Key Takeaways

Environmental economics studies the impact of environmental policies and devises solutions to problems resulting from them.Environmental economics can either be prescriptive-based or incentive-based.A major subject of environmental economics is externalities, the additional costs of doing business that are not paid by the business or its consumers. Another major subject of environmental economics is placing a value on public goods, such as clean air, and calculating the costs of losing those goods. Since some environmental goods are not limited to a single country, environmental economics often requires a transnational approach.


   Understanding Environmental Economics  

The basic theory underpinning environmental economics is that environmental amenities (or environmental goods) have economic value and there are costs to economic growth that are not accounted for in more traditional models.



Environmental goods include things like access to clean water, clean air, the survival of wildlife, and the general climate. Although it is hard to put a price tag on environmental goods, there may be a high cost when they are lost. Environmental goods are usually difficult to fully privatize and subject to the tragedy of the commons.



Destruction or overuse of environmental goods, like pollution and other kinds of environmental degradation, can represent a form of market failure because it imposes negative externalities. Environmental economists analyze the costs and benefits of specific economic policies that seek to correct such problems, and they may run theoretical tests or studies on the possible consequences of these policies.






In the United States, any federal project that is likely to affect the environment–such as a highway, dam, or other infrastructure–must publish an environmental impact statement describing any potential risks to the natural environment. These documents are used to assess any negative externalities of the project.


   Strategies in Environmental Economics  

Environmental economists are concerned with identifying specific problems, but there can be many approaches to solving the same environmental issue. If a state is trying to impose a transition to clean energy, for example, they have several options. The government can impose a fixed limit on carbon emissions, or it can adopt more incentive-based solutions, like placing quantity-based taxes on emissions or offering tax credits to companies that adopt renewable power sources.



All of these strategies rely on state intervention in the market, but some governments prefer to use a light touch and others may be more assertive. The degree of acceptable state intervention is an important political factor in determining environmental economic policy.



Broadly speaking, environmental economics may produce two types of policies:


  Prescriptive Regulations  

In a prescriptive approach, the government dictates specific measures to reduce environmental harm. For example, they may prohibit highly-polluting industries, or require certain emissions-controlling technologies.


  Market-Based Regulations  

Market-based policies use economic incentives to encourage desired behaviors. For example, cap-and-trade regulations do not prohibit companies from pollution, but they place a financial burden on those who do. These incentives reward companies for reducing their emissions, without dictating the method they use to do so.






The Environmental Protection Agency was created by President Richard Nixon in 1970.


   Challenges of Environmental Economics  

Because the nature and economic value of environmental goods often transcend national boundaries, environmental economics frequently requires a transnational approach. For example, an environmental economist could identify overfishing as a negative externality to be addressed.



The United States could impose regulations on its own fishing industry, but the problem wouldn't be solved without similar action from many other nations. The global character of such environmental issues has led to the rise of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) like the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), which organizes annual forums for heads of state to negotiate international environmental policies.



Another challenge of environmental economics is the degree to which its findings affect other industries. More often than not, findings from environmental economists can result in controversy, and their policy prescriptions may be difficult to implement due to the complexity of the world market.



The presence of multiple marketplaces for carbon credits is an example of the chaotic transnational implementation of ideas stemming from environmental economics. Fuel economy standards set by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) are another example of the balancing act required by policy proposals related to environmental economics.



In the U.S., policy proposals stemming from environmental economics tend to cause contentious political debate. Leaders rarely agree about the degree of externalized environmental costs, making it difficult to craft substantive environmental policies. The EPA uses environmental economists to conduct analysis-related policy proposals.



These proposals are then vetted and evaluated by legislative bodies. The EPA oversees a National Center for Environmental Economics, which emphasizes market-based solutions like cap and trade policies for carbon emissions. Their priority policy issues are encouraging biofuel use, analyzing the costs of climate change, and addressing waste and pollution problems.


   Example of Environmental Economics  

A prominent contemporary example of the use of environmental economics is the cap and trade system. Companies purchase carbon offsets from developing countries or environmental organizations to make up for their carbon emissions. Another example is the use of a carbon tax to penalize industries that emit carbon.



Corporate average fuel economy (CAFE) regulations are another example of environmental economics at work. These regulations are prescriptive and specify the gallons per mile of gas for cars for car makers. They were introduced during the 1970s to promote fuel efficiency in an era of gas shortages.




What Is the Difference Between Environmental Economics and Ecological Economics?
Environmental and ecological economics are both sub-fields of economic thought that study the interactions between human activity and the natural environment. The difference is that environmental economics studies the relationship between the environment and the economy, while ecological economics considers the economy to be a subsystem of the wider ecosystem.




What Is the Relationship Between Neoclassical Economics and Environmental Economics?
Neoclassical economics is a broad theory that focuses on supply and demand as the driving forces of economic activity. Environmental economics is based on the neoclassical model but places a greater emphasis on negative externalities, such as pollution and ecosystem loss.




What Are Some Jobs in Environmental Economics?
Environmental economists may find ready employment at the Environmental Protection Agency, or other environmental bodies at the state or local level. These specialists are responsible for enforcing regulations to protect the environment and calculating the economic costs of enforcing regulations.
What Is the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)?  

The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) was established in December 1970 by the executive order of President Richard Nixon. It is an agency of the United States federal government whose mission is to protect human and environmental health. Headquartered in Washington, D.C., the EPA is responsible for creating standards and laws promoting the health of individuals and the environment.





Key Takeaways

The Environmental Protection Agency is a United States federal government agency whose mission is to protect human and environmental health. The EPA regulates the manufacturing, processing, distribution, and use of chemicals and other pollutants.The agency enforces its findings through fines, sanctions, and other procedures. It oversees programs to promote energy efficiency, environmental stewardship, sustainable growth, air and water quality, and pollution prevention. Some of the areas that aren’t covered by the EPA include wildlife, wetlands, food safety, and nuclear waste.


   Understanding the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)  

Why was the EPA created? It was formed in response to widespread public environmental concerns that gained momentum in the 1950s and 1960s. From the EPA’s creation, it has sought to protect and conserve the natural environment and improve the health of humans by researching the effects of and mandating limits on the use of pollutants.



The EPA regulates the manufacturing, processing, distribution, and use of chemicals and other pollutants. Also, the EPA is charged with determining safe tolerance levels for chemicals and other pollutants in food, animal feed, and water.



The EPA enforces its findings through fines, sanctions, and other procedures. Under the Trump administration, the EPA’s regulations of carbon emissions from power plants, automobiles, and other contributors to climate change, instituted by President Obama, were significantly rolled back. The EPA’s size and influence have also been diminished, and criminal prosecutions for those who aren’t following regulations are at a 30-year low.



The EPA is led by the EPA administrator, a cabinet-level post nominated by the President and confirmed by the Senate. That position is currently held by Michael Regan, the first Black man to ever hold that position. He is expected to reverse many of the regulatory rollbacks of the Trump administration.


   Examples of EPA Programs  

The EPA oversees several programs intended to promote energy efficiency, environmental stewardship, sustainable growth, air and water quality, and pollution prevention. These programs include:



The EPA Safer Choice program—formerly Design for the Environment—a product-labeling program that allows consumers to select the chemically safest products available, without sacrificing function or qualityThe Energy Star program, which helps consumers choose energy-efficient appliancesThe Smart Growth program, which supports sustainable community developmentWaterSense, which encourages efficiency in water use via high-efficiency toilets, faucets, and irrigation equipmentThe National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System, which regulates the discharge of pollutants into U.S. waters






The EPA protects human health and the environment with programs such as Safer Choice and the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.



The EPA also runs programs to



Prevent, control, and respond to oil spillsControl air pollution and forecast air pollution levelsFoster the manufacturing of more fuel-efficient vehicles


   How the EPA Enforces Laws  

To protect communities and the environment, the EPA works to enforce laws such as the Clean Air Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, the National Environmental Education Act, and the Clean Water Act, some of which predate the formation of the agency itself.



The EPA is also responsible for the detection and prevention of environmental crimes, monitoring pollution levels, and setting standards for the handling of hazardous chemicals and waste. As part of its strategic plan, when violations occur, the EPA investigates and pursues action against violators.



Environmental offenses are categorized as civil or criminal. Civil offenses arise when environmental violations occur and no consideration is given to whether the offender knew of their transgression.﻿﻿ Criminal offenses, which comprise most of what the EPA investigates, arise when a violation occurs and the offender knew that their action caused it. Because of the severity of charges and punishment, criminal convictions require proof beyond a reasonable doubt.



Violators can be held civilly and/or criminally responsible, with punishments for civil offenses ranging from monetary fines to repairing environmental damage and punishments for criminal offenses ranging from monetary relief to imprisonment.





$83.4 million

The largest civil penalty assessed for violating environmental law.﻿﻿



For civil violations, the EPA may enforce actions by issuing orders or seeking court rulings. Criminal violations are enforced by the EPA or the governing state, with punishments imposed by a judge.


   Examples of What the EPA Doesn’t Do  

Because of its name, there tends to be some confusion about what the EPA does and doesn’t do. It doesn’t handle every issue or concern that affects the environment. The agency suggests contacting local, state, or other federal agencies to find out who is responsible.



For example, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is responsible for the Endangered Species Act, while local and state wildlife officers are responsible for concerns about foxes, birds, rabbits, and other animals. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers is the agency that determines and issues permits for wetland areas. Food safety is the responsibility of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), while issues about nuclear waste are handled by the Department of Energy’s Office of Environmental Management.


   Criticism of the EPA  

Not everyone supports the EPA. Some critics argue that the EPA's environmental regulations are too expensive and offer little benefits. Others claim that the EPA stifles the economy, contributes to unemployment rates, and adversely affects international trade.



These opponents believe that the associated costs for companies to remain in compliance with environmental laws and standards erode profits and cause widespread layoffs, contributing to unemployment. These absorbent costs also prevent companies from being competitive globally. They suggest that the costs are inflated and that those earmarked funds could be used for more productive ways to advance the economy and trade.



Some proponents for environmental regulation disfavor the EPA for not acting swiftly on matters that concern the environment. For example, in 2020, Congress and environmentalists criticized the EPA for moving slowly on limiting the use of perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl (PFAS) substances—toxic chemicals found to cause cancer, infertility, and other diseases.﻿﻿ Research shows that these toxins are contaminating the nation's drinking water and have been found in lifesaving equipment and household items. These critics claim that, in light of the research, the EPA is not doing enough or moving fast enough to protect public health.



The EPA responded with action plans to address how communities monitor and address PFAS contamination. However, critics argue that their plan lacks action and, as a result, is detrimental to the environment and the nation's citizens.


   Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) FAQs  
  What Is the EPA and Why Was It Created?  

Established by President Nixon in December 1970, the EPA—a U.S. federal agency designed to protect human and environmental health— was created in response to heightened concerns about pollution and its negative externalities.


  What Does the Environmental Protection Agency Do?  

The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) creates and enforces laws designed to protect the environment and human health. As part of their mission, they seek to ensure that Americans have a clean environment, including the air, water, and land they use and enjoy. In addition to creating and enforcing environmental laws, they provide education and guidance on protecting the environment, conduct research and development, issue grants to state programs, schools, and other non-profit organizations to further their mission, and more.


  How Do I Get in Touch With the EPA?  

You can contact the EPA online, by phone, or in writing. How to contact them depends on the nature of your concern or question. For more information, visit their website, epa.gov.


  What Is an EPA Violation?  

EPA violations consist of intentional and nonintentional violations of environmental laws. Common examples include illegal disposal of hazardous chemicals or products, illegal discharge of pollutants in bodies of water in the U.S., and tampering with water supplies.﻿﻿


   The Bottom Line  

The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is a federal government agency, created by the Nixon Administration, to protect human health and the environment. The EPA creates and enforces environmental laws, inspects the environment, and provides technical support to minimize threats and support recovery planning.



It consists of different programs—such as The Energy Star program, The Smart Growth Program, and Water Sense—that promote energy efficiency, environmental care, and pollution prevention. Not all concerns with the environment are handled by the EPA, however. For example, protecting endangered species falls under the jurisdiction of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and protecting our nation's wetlands is under the authority of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.



Critics argue that the EPA imposes unnecessary and large costs on corporations and strains the economy and international trade. However, the agency stands firms on its mission to create a better tomorrow for future generations by promoting a cleaner and safer environment and protecting human health.
What Is Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Investing?  

Environmental, social, and governance (ESG) investing refers to a set of standards for a company’s behavior used by socially conscious investors to screen potential investments.



Environmental criteria consider how a company safeguards the environment, including corporate policies addressing climate change, for example. Social criteria examine how it manages relationships with employees, suppliers, customers, and the communities where it operates. Governance deals with a company’s leadership, executive pay, audits, internal controls, and shareholder rights.






Subscribe to 'Term of the Day' and learn a new financial term every day. Stay informed and make smart financial decisions. Sign up now.





Key Takeaways

Environmental, social, and governance (ESG) investing is used to screen investments based on corporate policies and to encourage companies to act responsibly.Many mutual funds, brokerage firms, and robo-advisors now offer investment products that employ ESG principles.ESG investing can also help portfolios avoid holding companies engaged in risky or unethical practices.The rapid growth of ESG investment funds in recent years has led to claims that companies have been insincere or misleading in touting their ESG accomplishments.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   How Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Investing Works  

Investors have, in recent years, shown interest in putting their money where their values are.



As a result, brokerage firms and mutual fund companies have started offering exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and other financial products that follow ESG investing strategies. Robo-advisors including Betterment and Wealthfront have promoted these ESG-themed offerings to younger investors.



ESG investors are also increasingly informing the investment choices of large institutional investors such as public pension funds. According to an industry report from US SIF Foundation, investors held $17.1 trillion in assets chosen according to ESG principles in 2020, up from $12 trillion just two years earlier. ESG-specific mutual funds and ETFs also reached a record $400 billion in AUM in 2021, up 33% from the year before - and are expected to continue to grow rapidly in the coming years.



ESG investing is sometimes referred to as sustainable investing, responsible investing, impact investing, or socially responsible investing (SRI). To assess a company based on ESG criteria, investors look at a broad range of behaviors and policies.





58%

The share of respondents to a survey by Investopedia and Treehugger who indicated increased interest in ESG investments in 2020. 19% reported using ESG considerations in selecting investments.


   Environmental, Social, and Governance  

ESG investors seek to ensure the companies they fund are responsible stewards of the environment, good corporate citizens, and are led by accountable managers.


  Environmental  

Environmental issues may include corporate climate policies, energy use, waste, pollution, natural resource conservation, and treatment of animals. ESG considerations can also help evaluate any environmental risks a company might face and how the company is managing those risks.



Considerations may include direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions, management of toxic waste, and compliance with environmental regulations.






Human influence is unequivocally to blame for the warming of the planet and some forms of climate disruption are now locked in for centuries, according to a report from the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. "This report must sound a death knell for coal and fossil fuels before they destroy our planet," said United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres.


  Social  

Social aspects look at the company’s relationships with internal and external stakeholders.



Does it hold suppliers to its own ESG standards? Does the company donate a percentage of its profits to the local community or encourage employees to perform volunteer work there? Do workplace conditions reflect a high regard for employees’ health and safety? Or does the company take unethical advantage of its customers?



Socially responsible investing (SRI) is an investment strategy that highlights this one facet of ESG. SRI investors seek companies that promote ethical and socially conscious themes including diversity, inclusion, community-focus, social justice, and corporate ethics, in addition to fighting against racial, gender, and sexual discrimination.


  Governance  

ESG governance standards ensure a company uses accurate and transparent accounting methods, pursues integrity and diversity in selecting its leadership, and is accountable to shareholders.



ESG investors may require assurances that companies avoid conflicts of interest in their choice of board members and senior executives, don't use political contributions to obtain preferential treatment, or engage in illegal conduct.


   ESG Criteria  

Investment firms following ESG investing often set their own priorities. For example, Boston-based Trillium Asset Management, with $5.6 billion under management as of December 2021, uses a variety of ESG factors to help identify companies positioned for strong long-term performance. 



The criteria are set by analysts who identify the relevant issues facing specific sectors, industries, and companies. Trillium's ESG criteria preclude investments in the following:



Companies that operate in higher-risk areas or have exposure to coal or hard rock mining, nuclear or coal power, private prisons, agricultural biotechnology, tobacco, tar sands, or weapons and firearms.Companies involved in major or recent controversies over human rights, animal welfare, environmental concerns, governance issues, or product safety.



In contrast, Trillium looks for investments meeting the following ESG criteria:


  Environment  

Publishes a carbon or sustainability reportLimits harmful pollutants and chemicalsSeeks to lower greenhouse gas emissions and CO2 footprintUses renewable energy sourcesReduces waste


  Social  

Operates an ethical supply chainsAvoids overseas labor that may have questionable workplace safety or employ child laborSupports LGBTQ+ rights and encourages all forms of diversityHas policies to protect against sexual misconductPays fair (living) wages


  Governance  

Embraces diversity on board of directorsEmbraces corporate transparencySomeone other than the CEO is chair of the boardStaggers board elections


   Pros of ESG Investing  

Some have argued that, in addition to their social value, ESG criteria can help investors avoid the blowups that occur when companies operating in a risky or unethical manner are ultimately held accountable for its consequences. Examples include BP's (BP) 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill and Volkswagen's emissions scandal, which rocked the companies' stock prices and cost them billions of dollars.



As ESG-minded business practices gain more traction, investment firms are increasingly tracking their performance. Financial services companies such as JPMorgan Chase (JPM), Wells Fargo (WFC), and Goldman Sachs (GS) have published annual reports that extensively review their ESG approaches and the bottom-line results.



The ultimate value of ESG investing will depend on whether they encourage companies to drive real change for the common good, or merely check boxes and publish reports. That, in turn, will depend on whether the investment flows follow ESG tenets that are realistic, measurable, and actionable.


   Cons of ESG Investing  

The downside of ESG investing is that you will not be able to hold the full universe of stocks available in the market. After all, tobacco and defense, two industries avoided by many ESG investors, have historically produced well-above-average market returns and can buck recessionary trends. In other words, U.S. investors may be sacrificing a small amount of returns in exchange for making investments that fit their values.



Many ESG investors are willing to make that tradeoff, though; according to a recent survey of Investopedia and Treehugger readers, nearly half of ESG investors said they’d be willing to take a 10% loss over a five-year period to invest in a company that “aligns exceptionally against ESG standards.” But 74% of respondents said that valuation/price was “very or extremely important to them.” This indicates that the average ESG-friendly investment trades at a premium, making it a relatively more expensive investment style.




How Is ESG Investing Different From Sustainable Investing?
ESG and sustainability are closely related. ESG investing screens companies based on criteria related to being pro-social, environmentally friendly, and with good corporate governance. Together, these features can lead to sustainability. ESG, therefore, looks at how a company's management and stakeholders make decisions; sustainability considers the impact of those decisions on the world.




What Does ESG Mean for a Business?
Adopting ESG principles means that corporate strategy focuses on the three pillars of the environment, social, and governance. This means taking measures to lower pollution, CO2 output, and reduce waste. It also means having a diverse and inclusive workforce, at the entry-level and all the way up to the board of directors. ESG may be costly and time-consuming to undertake, but can also be rewarding into the future for those that carry it through.




How Do I Know Which Investments Are ESG?
Several financial firms have come out with ESG ratings and scoring systems in recent years. For instance, MSCI has come out with a ratings scheme covering more than 8,500 companies around the world, giving them scores and letter grades based on their compliance with ESG standards and initiatives. Several other companies like Morningstar have also released ESG scores for publicly-traded companies.


   The Bottom Line  

ESG investing focuses on companies that follow positive environmental, social, and governance principles. Today, investors are increasingly eager to align their portfolios with ESG-related companies and fund providers, making it an exciting area of growth that also has positive effects on society and the environment. Whether or not ESG investing is right for you depends on whether you want to combine your values with your investments. From there, you can look to one or more of several ESG ratings systems that have appeared in the past few years to build the right portfolio or consider an ESG-tailored ETF or mutual fund.
What Is EOS?  

EOS is a blockchain-based, decentralized platform used to develop, host, and run business applications, or dApps.



EOS launched In June 2018 after an initial coin offering that raised $4.1 billion in crypto for Block.one, the company that developed the open-source software called EOS.IO that is used on the platform.



EOS cryptocurrency tokens are used as a payment system on the network.





Key Takeaways

EOS is a blockchain-based platform that enables the development of business applications, or DApps.EOS supports secure access and authentication, permissioning, data hosting, usage management, and communication between the DApps and the Internet.EOS.IO is the system architecture.The EOS token is the network's cryptocurrency.Its main competitor is the better-established Ethereum platform.


   Understanding EOS  

EOS supports core functionality that allows businesses and individuals to create blockchain-based applications in a way that is similar to web-based applications. EOS provides secure access and authentication, permissions, data hosting, usage management, and communication between dApps and the Internet.



EOS is supported by a web toolkit store that aims at hassle-free app development.


  The Basics of EOS.IO and EOS Tokens  

The EOS ecosystem is composed of two key elements: the EOS.IO software and EOS tokens:



EOS.IO is akin to the operating system of a computer. It manages and controls the EOS blockchain network. The software uses blockchain architecture for vertical and horizontal scaling of DApps.
The EOS token is the cryptocurrency of the EOS network.



A developer needs only to hold EOS coins, rather than spending them, to use network resources and to build and run DApps. Token holders who are not running any apps can allocate or rent their bandwidth to other participants who need it.



Currently owned by the block.one company, EOS was launched by Dan Larimer, who is also the founder and creator of established platforms including Bitshares and Steem.


  How EOS Is Different  

EOS is seen as a direct competitor to Ethereum, with ambitions to be bigger, better, and faster. Especially faster: while Ethereum reportedly can handle 15 transactions per second, EOS is aiming for millions of transactions per second. Note that this is a goal, not a reality.



With the size of the DApps ecosystem increasing every day on the blockchain networks, the limited availability of resources is a major issue. EOS.IO attempts to address these problems by offering more scalability, flexibility, and usability through its unique mechanism.


  Characteristics of EOS.IO  

EOS.IO claims to be able to support thousands of commercial-scale DApps without hitting performance bottlenecks through its use of parallel execution and asynchronous communication methodology across the network.



The efficiency is further boosted by separate modules that are involved in the working of DApps. For example, the authentication process is performed separately from the execution process.



EOS has key usability features—including a web toolkit for interface development, self-describing interfaces, self-describing database schemas, and a declarative permission scheme. All of these make the developer’s job of creating and maintaining the apps easier.


   The Economy of EOS  

The EOS setup does not use the now-familiar mining concept used by Bitcoin. Rather, block producers generate the required number of blocks and are rewarded by the creation of new EOS tokens for each block they produce.



Block producers can publish a desired figure for payment, and the number of tokens they create is calculated based on the median value of the expected pay published by all block producers.



As block producers obviously desire higher pay, this feature can easily be misused. To counter this, a mechanism caps producer awards tokens so that the total annual hike in token supply will not exceed 5%. Token-holders, who vote on the matter, have the authority to vote out block producers who demand more.



This mechanism functions in a way that is complementary to EOS storage as all token holders pay for file storage on the EOS network through a portion of annual inflation. As long as they are storing a file on the network, their EOS tokens will be held up and will lose value at the rate of inflation.



The more storage required, the more blocks will be demanded from the block creators, who can demand more value for their work through higher pay inflation, which the token holders approve. If storage demand decreases, inflation will be lower, reducing the loss of value from stored EOS tokens.



EOS tokens can be kept in multiple wallets including Ethereum Wallet, MyEtherWallet, and MetaMask. The tokens can be traded on exchanges including Bitfinex and YoBit.






EOS faces criticism concerning its centralized block producers. The system is reportedly supporting large token holders, or whales, in China.


   EOS in the News  

In September 2019, one of the small companies instrumental in the initial development EOS stepped away saying that it was focusing on other blockchain and EOS.IO software implementation.  According to Coindesk, the real reason was that the support of EOS whales—those with large token holdings—was needed to make money, and those whales were supporting block producers in China. This did not bold well for EOS.



Governance Issues



EOS faces skepticism in other ways. Shortly after its launch, block producers froze seven accounts that held stolen tokens, but EOS had no legitimized authority to do so. This move illustrates another controversy surrounding EOS, which is that it lacks an effective governance process.



In June 2019, Brock Pierce, an early member of the Block.one team, made news when he suggested that EOS is now governed by a “Chinese oligarchy.” Although it is true that a majority of the block producers are based in China, the concern has more to do with the risks that centralization poses. The main complaints about the current block producers are that they don’t prioritize building new DApps that will attract other users to the blockchain.



Regarding governance, EOS has since settled on a system in place to run a vote across all EOS holders, but EOS New York said that it is “simply a way of gauging the interest of holders.”



Bullish Global



In May 2021, the EOS price climbed 50% after the news that Block.one had created a subsidiary called Bullish Global. (The price fell just as sharply toward the end of the month.) Bullish Global intends to create a new blockchain-based cryptocurrency exchange. Prominent investors in Bullish Global are Peter Thiel, Mike Novogratz, Alan Howard, Christian Angermayer, Louis Bacon, Richard Li, and the institutions Nomura and Galaxy Digital.






EOS is ranked 29th among cryptocurrencies by Coin Market Cap. It closed at $4.46 on Aug. 6, 2021.


   EOS Crypto FAQs  
  What Does EOS Stand for in Crypto?  

EOS is an acronym for Electro-Optical System. EOS is a decentralized operating system based on blockchain technology.


  What Is the Purpose of EOS?  

The EOS system was designed to support decentralized applications, commonly called dApps, on a commercial scale. EOS provides the core functionality for businesses to build blockchain applications in a way that is similar to building web apps.


  Can EOS Go to $1,000?  

Doubtful.



Early in 2021, EOS was bearish with a price of $2.63, but the price surged up to $12 by May. Like all cryptocurrencies, EOS is volatile. Still, few pundits see the EOS price at $1,000 any time soon.



CoinPedia predicts that the price will reach $18 to $24 by the end of 2021, and perhaps $45 by 2022. With potential startup collaborations to bolster its blockchain infrastructure and transaction speeds, CoinPedia suggests that EOS might reach as high as $160 in five years.



WalletInvestor thinks the price of EOS will not go above $14 by the end of 2025. Digitalcoin sees the price reaching around $19 to $24 by 2025. Longforecast sees a price of around $45 by mid-2025.


   The Bottom Line  

There seems to be some potential for EOS as a blockchain-based network, but it is still in a nascent stage. Some doubt the bold claims of transaction speeds of 100,000 per second, and the requirement that users must hold EOS tokens to complete a transaction may detract from EOS's appeal.



As with all cryptocurrency blockchains, this space will continue to fascinate and mesmerize many investors over the next few years.



Investing in cryptocurrencies and other Initial Coin Offerings (“ICOs”) is highly risky and speculative, and this article is not a recommendation by Investopedia or the writer to invest in cryptocurrencies or other ICOs. Since each individual's situation is unique, a qualified professional should always be consulted before making any financial decisions. Investopedia makes no representations or warranties as to the accuracy or timeliness of the information contained herein. As of the date this article was written, the author did not own cryptocurrency.
What Is the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA)?  

The Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA) is a federal civil rights law that forbids lenders to discriminate against loan applicants for any reason other than their ability to repay. Specifically, ECOA protects consumers from discrimination based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, age, eligibility for public assistance, or the exercise of any rights under the Consumer Credit Protection Act.





Key Takeaways


The Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA) was signed into law in 1974 and prohibits lending discrimination in all aspects of a credit transaction.
ECOA makes it illegal for lenders to discriminate based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, age, the receipt of public assistance, and the applicant's exercise of specific consumer protection laws.
The Department of Justice can file lawsuits under ECOA (and the Fair Housing Act, if the discrimination involves mortgages) where there is a pattern or practice of discrimination.
Various federal agencies enforce ECOA.
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) enforces ECOA for banks, savings associations, and credit unions holding more than $10 billion in assets.



   How the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA) Works  

The Equal Credit Opportunity Act was enacted in 1974 and is detailed in Title 15 of the United States Code. The act, as implemented by Regulation B, states that individuals applying for loans and other credit can be evaluated only using factors directly related to their creditworthiness. It prohibits creditors and lenders from considering factors that are unrelated to creditworthiness—specifically, the following protected classes:



Race
Color
Religion
National origin (the country where you or your ancestors were born)
Sex (including gender, sexual orientation, and gender identity)
Marital status
Age (provided the applicant is old enough to enter into a contract)
Participation in a public assistance program, such as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) or Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI)
The good faith exercise of any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act






In 2021, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau clarified that the prohibition against sex discrimination in ECOA and Regulation B encompasses sexual orientation discrimination and gender identity discrimination, including discrimination based on an applicant's nonconformity with sex-based or gender-based stereotypes.



ECOA prohibits discrimination in all aspects of a credit transaction and applies to any organization that extends credit—including banks, small loan and finance companies, retail stores, credit card companies, and credit unions. It also applies to anyone involved in the decision to grant credit or set credit terms. 



ECOA covers various types of credit, including personal loans, credit cards, home loans, student loans, car loans, small business loans, and loan modifications. And it's not limited to just consumer loans. ECOA applies to any extension of credit, including those made to small businesses, corporations, partnerships, and trusts.


   Special Considerations  

When a borrower applies for credit, the lender may ask about some of the personal facts that ECOA prohibits. While these questions can't be used to make lending decisions—and answering them is optional—the information does help federal agencies enforce anti-discrimination laws.



Another aspect of ECOA allows each spouse in a marriage to have a credit history in their own name. Still, if a borrower has any joint accounts with their spouse, the accounts will appear on both credit reports. That means a spouse’s financial behavior can positively or negatively impact an individual borrower’s credit score.






If you were turned down for a loan or a line of credit, the lender must tell you in an Adverse Action Notice the specific reasons your application was rejected or disclose that you have the right to request the reason for denial within 60 days of receiving the creditor's notification.



While ECOA prohibits lenders from basing their decisions on marital status, some loans, such as mortgages, require a borrower to disclose if they are relying on alimony or child support income as a basis for obtaining the credit. However, a borrower can't be denied a loan simply because they are divorced.


   Your Equal Credit Opportunity Rights  

When you apply for a loan or line of credit, ECOA gives you certain rights:



When considering your credit application or setting terms for a loan, creditors can only consider relevant financial factors—your credit score, income, and credit history, including your existing debt load.
You are entitled to have credit in your birth name (Kim Jones), your first name and your spouse's last name (Kim Smith), or your first name and a combined last name (Kim Jones-Smith).
You have the right to keep your own accounts after changing your name, marital status, reaching a certain age, or retiring unless the creditor can prove you're unwilling or unable to pay.
The creditor must tell you whether your application was accepted or rejected within 30 days of filing a complete application.
If the creditor denies your application, they must provide a specific reason or disclose that you’re entitled to learn the reason if you ask within 60 days.



Additionally, creditors can't:



Impose different terms or conditions—such as a higher interest rate or higher fees—if based on your race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, age, or whether you receive public assistance.Refuse to consider reliable public assistance in the same way as other income.Ask about your marital status if you’re applying for a separate, unsecured account.Ask if you’re widowed or divorced.


   Detecting the Signs of Credit Discrimination  

Credit discrimination is not always clear, which makes it hard to spot. CFPB advises consumers to watch for warning signs of ECOA violations:



You are treated differently in person than on the phone or online.You are discouraged from applying for credit.You hear the lender make negative comments about race, national origin, sex, or other protected groups.You are refused credit even though you qualify for it based on advertised requirements.You are offered credit with a higher rate than you applied for, even though you qualify for the lower rate.You are denied credit, but not given a reason or told how to find out why.You feel pushed or pressured to sign.


   What to Do if You Suspect Discrimination  

If you feel you’ve been discriminated against at any point during a credit transaction, there are several steps you can take: 



First, contact the creditor to complain. You may be able to persuade the company to take a second look at your application.Check with your state Attorney General’s office to see if the creditor violated any state equal credit opportunity laws.Report suspected violations to the appropriate government agency. If you’re denied credit, the creditor must provide contact information for the particular government agency. Submit a complaint to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. These complaints help the Bureau identify cases and patterns of discrimination and fair-lending law violations. Consider suing the creditor in federal district court. If the court finds the creditor’s actions were willful, you could recover actual damages and win punitive damages.


   Examples of Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA) Enforcement  

One common violation of the ECOA is charging higher rates or fees to Black, Indigenous, and People of Color (BIPOC) applicants. That was the issue in these two cases. 



In July 2012, the Department of Justice (DOJ) reached a settlement of more than $175 million with Wells Fargo Bank for a pattern or practice of discriminatory lending. Black and Hispanic borrowers who qualified for loans were charged higher fees or rates or were improperly placed into subprime loans, which are more costly.



In January 2017, a $53 million settlement was made against JPMorgan Chase for lending discrimination based on race and national origin. The DOJ found that the bank's brokers charged higher interest rates to BIPOC borrowers than White borrowers in the run-up to and during the 2008 financial crisis.




Who Supervises the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA)?
The Consumer Financial Protection Board (CFPB) writes rules to implement ECOA and supervises institutions (e.g., banks and lending companies) to ensure they follow the law. Several other federal agencies share the job of supervising for compliance, including the:Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC)National Credit Union Administration (NCUA)Federal Reserve Board (FRB)Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)The CFPB enforces ECOA with the agencies listed above, the Department of Justice, and the Federal Trade Commission.




What Is the Penalty for Violating the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA)?
Lenders found in violation of ECOA can potentially face class-action lawsuits from the Department of Justice (DOJ) if the DOJ or any affiliate agencies recognize a pattern of discrimination.The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau enforces ECOA with other federal agencies. If found guilty, the offending organization could have to pay out punitive damages that can be significant and cover any costs incurred by the wronged party.




Does ECOA Apply to All Creditors?
The Equal Credit Opportunity Act applies to all creditors. Financial institutions and other firms engaged in the extension of credit can't discriminate against an applicant based on a prohibited basis during any aspect of a credit transaction. Additionally, lending officers and employees can't do anything that would, on a prohibited basis, discourage a reasonable person from applying for a loan.


   The Bottom Line  

The Equal Credit Opportunity Act is a law designed to ensure fair lending practices that applies to all creditors. Understanding your rights under the ECOA can help you avoid or take action against and discriminatory lending practices that apply to a range of financial products, from credit cards to mortgages.
What Is the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC)?  

The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) is the agency responsible for enforcing federal laws regarding discrimination or harassment against a job applicant or an employee in the United States. The EEOC was formed by Congress to enforce Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, opening its door for business on July 2, 1965. It is headquartered in Washington, D.C., and as of 2021, it maintains 37 other field offices throughout the United States in 15 districts.





Key Takeaways

The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) investigates charges brought against employers regarding discrimination against employees and job applicants.It was created by Congress in 1964 to enforce Title VII of the Civil Rights Act.Companies are subject to the law if they have 15 or more employees (20 or more employees for age discrimination cases).The laws apply to all aspects of work, including hiring, firing, promotions, harassment, training, wages, and benefits.






Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the EEOC has closed all of its physical field offices. However, you can still file a discrimination charge online or by phone at 1-800-669-4000.


   How the EEOC Works  

The EEOC enforces federal laws that make it illegal to discriminate because of a person’s race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy, gender identity, and sexual orientation), national origin, age (40 or older), disability, or genetic information. In addition, it is against the law to discriminate against a person who complains about discrimination, has filed a charge of discrimination, or has participated in an employment discrimination investigation or lawsuit. (In fact, 55.8% of charges filed with the EEOC in the 2020 fiscal year were for retaliation.) Indeed, business ethics have changed considerably since the turbulent 1960s first roiled their relatively placid waters.






On June 15, 2020, in a 6-to-3 ruling in Bostock v. Clayton County, Georgia, the U.S. Supreme Court determined that protections against discrimination by sex in Title VII of the Civil Rights Act protect LGBTQ workers. Justice Neil M. Gorsuch, who wrote the opinion, stated: “Today, we must decide whether an employer can fire someone simply for being homosexual or transgender. The answer is clear. An employer who fires an individual for being homosexual or transgender fires that person for traits or actions it would not have questioned in members of a different sex. Sex plays a necessary and undisguisable role in the decision, exactly what Title VII forbids.”


   The EEOC’s Authority and Role  

The EEOC is vested with the authority to investigate any charges of discrimination brought against employers, who are generally subject to EEOC laws if they have at least 15 employees (in the case of age discrimination, that minimum rises to 20). Many labor unions and employment agencies fall under its jurisdiction as well.



The EEOC’s role is to fairly and accurately assess allegations in the charge and then make a finding. If it finds discrimination has occurred, then it will try to settle the charge. It also has the authority to file a lawsuit to protect individuals and the interests of the public.



The laws enforced by the EEOC apply to all types of work situations, processes, and functions. This includes the hiring and firing of employees, harassment among the staff or management, job training, promotions, wages, and benefits. Another role of the EEOC is to seek to prevent discrimination before it can occur.


   How Does the EEOC Prevent Discrimination?  

The EEOC works on preventing workplace discrimination through outreach and a variety of educational and technical assistance programs.



EEOC representatives make no-cost presentations (on a limited basis) to professional associations, conferences, employer groups, and nonprofits, explaining the mission of the EEOC, the laws it enforces, and how the charge/complaint process works.Field offices have designated small business liaisons to assist small businesses with their questions.The EEOC also provides targeted information and resources for veterans with disabilities.Youth@Work is an EEOC program designed to educate young workers about their workplace rights, including informing them about real cases involving teen workers and how to file a complaint.The EEOC also offers more in-depth training to employers for a fee through its EEOC Training Institute.






Employers are liable for both their own behavior and that of their staff members, even including independent contractors.


   What to Do If You Feel You’ve Been Discriminated Against at Work  

If you believe you’ve been discriminated against at work because of your race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy, gender identity, and sexual orientation), national origin, age (40 or older), disability, or genetic information, then you can file a charge of discrimination with the EEOC. This is a signed statement, describing how an employer, union, or labor organization engaged in employment discrimination, that asks the EEOC to take remedial action. All of the laws enforced by the EEOC, except for the Equal Pay Act, require you to file a charge of discrimination before you can file a job discrimination lawsuit against your employer.



There are time limits of either 180 or 300 calendar days, depending on certain circumstances. You can file a charge through the EEOC Public Portal after you submit an online inquiry and have an intake interview with an EEOC staff member.


   Examples of EEOC Jurisdiction  

The EEOC may specifically investigate not only employers for violations but also members of their staff accused of engaging in harassment or discrimination. For example, if a manager refuses to interview or hire qualified job candidates solely because of their ethnicity or race, then the employer can be held accountable for allowing racist behavior to persist. This also can be applied to employers who permit harassment to continue unchecked. And although the EEOC itself says that independent contractors are not subject to anti-discrimination laws, in 2009, the U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals ruled in Halpert v. Manhattan Apartments that companies can be held liable for independent contractors who act on their behalf.



The EEOC has filed lawsuits against companies where corrective action was not taken after derogatory slurs, threats, assaults, unwanted sexual comments, or inappropriate touching occurred in the workplace. Companies also can be penalized for not warning employees about past misconduct committed by another employee or manager with whom they are directed to work.



EEOC lawsuits might seek monetary damages, including punitive and compensatory damages and injunctive relief. In fiscal year 2020, the EEOC received 67,448 charges of workplace discrimination, with 38% of claims being allegations of discrimination based on race or color. Charges for sex-based harassment, which includes charges for sexual harassment, clocked in at 11,497, down by nearly 1,300 from 2019.



The EEOC is open to attempts to settle cases before the issue is investigated and possibly taken to trial. It offers a mediation procedure, an informal process in which two parties can work with a neutral mediator to see if they can reach a reconciliation of their differences. The mediator doesn’t ultimately make a determination, however, serving only to help the two parties reach a settlement on their own. If mediation fails, then the EEOC proceeds to formally investigate the complaint.
What Is Equal Weight?  

Equal weight is a type of proportional measuring method that gives the same importance to each stock in a portfolio, index, or index fund. So stocks of the smallest companies are given equal statistical significance, or weight, to the largest companies when it comes to evaluating the overall group's performance.



An equal-weight index is also known as an unweighted index.





Key Takeaways

Equal weight is a proportional measure that gives the same importance to each stock in a portfolio or index fund, regardless of a company's size.Equal weight contrasts with weighting by market capitalization, which is more commonly used by indexes and funds.The concept of equally-weighted portfolios has gained interest due to the historical performance of small-cap stocks and the emergence of several exchange-traded funds (ETFs).Equal-weighted index funds tend to have higher stock turnover than market-cap weighted index funds, and as a result, they usually have higher trading costs.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   Understanding Equal Weight  

Equal weight differs from the method more commonly used by indexes, funds, and portfolios in which stocks are weighted based on their market capitalization.



Many of the largest and most well-known market indices are either market capitalization-weighted or price-weighted. Market-cap-weighted indices, such as the Standard & Poor's (S&P) 500, give greater weight to the biggest companies according to market capitalization. Large-caps such as Apple and Microsoft are among the biggest holdings in the S&P 500. Price-weighted indices, such as the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA), give larger weightings to stocks with higher stock prices.



The concept of equally-weighted portfolios has gained interest due to the historical performance of small-cap stocks and the emergence of several exchange-traded funds (ETFs). Standard & Poor's has developed more than 80 different equal-weight indices based on combinations of market cap, market, and sector.






In the Dow SPDR Dow Jones Industrial Average ETF Trust (DIA), an exchange-traded fund that tracks the DJIA, the largest holdings,  as of September 2021, are United HealthGroup, Goldman Sachs, and The Home Depot.


   Performance of Equal-Weighted Indices  

Small-cap stocks are generally considered to be higher risk, higher potential return investments compared to large-caps. In theory, giving greater weight to the smaller names of the S&P 500 in an equal-weight portfolio should increase the return potential of the portfolio. Historically, this has been the case—in the short term. From September 2020 to September 2021, the total one-year return for the S&P 500 Equal Weight Index (EWI) was 41.93%, vs. 33.72% for the traditional S&P 500 Index.



However, over the long term, the gap narrows—and in fact, the returns flip. The 10-year annualized total return (September 2019-September 2021) for the S&P 500 Equal Weight Index was 15.32%, but the S&P 500 outperformed it, returning 16.32%.






S&P Global (the parent company of Standard & Poor's) developed the S&P 500 Equal Weight Index in January 2003—an equal-weight version of the popular S&P 500 Index, as the name suggests. Although both indexes are comprised of the same stocks, the different weighting schemes result in two indexes with different properties and different benefits for investors.


   Examples of Equal-Weight Funds  

Invesco offers more than a dozen different equal-weight funds covering not only major indices such as the S&P 500 but also many of the market's major sectors. The Invesco S&P 500 Equal Weight ETF (RSP), for example, provides the same exposure to the smallest companies in the S&P 500 as it does to corporate giants such as General Electric.






Equal-weight index funds tend to have higher portfolio turnover than market-cap weighted index funds: The fund manager has to periodically rebalance investment amounts so that each holding represents the same percentage amount of the total portfolio. As a result, they usually have higher trading costs, and their trading prices can be more volatile than in regular index funds. However, equal-weight ETFs offer more protection if a large sector experiences a downturn.



Other examples of equal-weight index ETFs include the Invesco Russell 1000 Equal Weight ETF, which is based on the Russell 1000 Equal Weight Index, and the First Trust NASDAQ-100 Equal Weighted Index Fund, which uses the NASDAQ-100 Equal Weighted Index as its benchmark.
What Is an Equated Monthly Installment (EMI)?  

An equated monthly installment (EMI) is a fixed payment amount made by a borrower to a lender at a specified date each calendar month. Equated monthly installments are applied to both interest and principal each month so that over a specified number of years, the loan is paid off in full. In the most common types of loans—such as real estate mortgages, auto loans, and student loans—the borrower makes fixed periodic payments to the lender over several years to retire the loan.





Key Takeaways


An equated monthly installment (EMI) is a fixed payment made by a borrower to a lender on a specified date of each month.
EMIs are applied to both interest and principal each month so that over a specified time period, the loan is paid off in full.
EMIs can be calculated in two ways: the flat-rate method or the reducing-balance method.
The EMI reducing-balance method generally is more favorable for borrowers, as it results in lower interest payments overall.
EMIs allow borrowers the peace of mind of knowing exactly how much money they will need to pay each month toward their loan.



   How an Equated Monthly Installment (EMI) Works  

EMIs differ from variable payment plans, in which the borrower can pay higher amounts at his or her discretion. In EMI plans borrowers are usually only allowed one fixed payment amount each month.



The benefit of an EMI for borrowers is that they know precisely how much money they will need to pay toward their loan each month, which can make personal budgeting easier. The benefit to lenders (or investors the loan is sold to) is that they can count on a steady, predictable income stream from the loan interest.



The EMI can be calculated using either the flat-rate method or the reducing-balance (aks the reduce-balance) method.


  Equated Monthly Installment (EMI) Formula  

The EMI flat-rate formula is calculated by adding together the principal loan amount and the interest on the principal and dividing the result by the number of periods multiplied by the number of months.



The EMI reducing-balance method is calculated using this formula:



EMI = P * [( r * (1 + r)^n)) / ((1 + r)^n - 1)]



where: 



P = Princiapl amount borrowed



r = Periodic monthly interest rate



n = Total number of monthly payments


   Examples of Equated Monthly Installment (EMI)  

To demonstrate how EMI works, let's walk through a calculation of it, using both methods. Assume an individual takes out a mortgage to buy a new home. The principal amount is $500,000, and the loan terms include an interest rate of 3.5% for 10 years.



Using the flat-rate method to calculate the EMI, the homeowner's monthly payments come out to $5,625, or ($500,000 + ($500,000 x 10 x 0.035)) / (10 x 12).



Using the EMI reducing-balance method, monthly payments would be approximately $4,944.29, or $500,000 * [(0.0029 * (1 + 0.0029)^120) / ((1 + 0.0029)^120 - 1)].



Note that in the EMI flat-rate calculation, the principal loan amount remains constant throughout the 10-year mortgage period. This suggests that the EMI reducing-balance method may be a better option because the dwindling loan principal also shrinks the amount of interest due. In the flat-rate method, each interest charge is calculated based on the original loan amount, even though the loan balance outstanding is gradually being paid down.






The EMI reducing-balance method often works out to be more cost-friendly to borrowers. The flat-rate method results in a higher effective interest rate.


   Equated Monthly Installment (EMI) FAQs  
  What does EMI stand for?  

In the finance world, EMI stands for equated monthly installment. It refers to periodic payments made to settle an outstanding loan within a stipulated time frame. As the name suggests, these payments are the same amount each time.


  How is EMI calculated?  

There are two ways to calculate EMI: the flat-rate method and the reducing-balance (or reduce-balance) method. Both take into account the loan principal, the loan interest rate, and the term of the loan in their calculations.


  How is EMI deducted from a credit card?  

As soon as you purchase something on a credit card with an EMI option (that is, doesn't demand payment in full each month), your card's available credit limit is reduced by the total cost of the goods or service. The EMI on credit cards then works much like a home loan or a personal loan: You pay back the principal and interest each month, gradually reducing your debt over some time until you pay it off in full. EMI is deducted from a credit card using the reduce-balance method.


  Is EMI good or bad?  

EMI is neither inherently good nor bad—unless you consider borrowing and accruing debt bad, and paying for things in full the only "good" option. In terms of borrowing options, EMI does have its good points, though. Because it divides the debt into the same fixed payments each month, it helps borrowers budget their finances and keep in mind their outstanding obligations. They know how much they have to pay, and how long it will take them to settle their debt in full.
What Is the Equation of Exchange?  

The equation of exchange is an economic identity that shows the relationship between money supply, the velocity of money, the price level, and an index of expenditures. English classical economist John Stuart Mill derived the equation of exchange, based on earlier ideas of David Hume. It says that the total amount of money that changes hands in the economy will always equal the total money value of the goods and services that change hands in the economy.





Key Takeaways

The equation of exchange is a mathematical expression of the quantity theory of money.In its basic form, the equation says that the total amount of money that changes hands in an economy equals the total money value of goods that change hands, or that nominal spending equals nominal income.The equation of exchange has been used to argue that inflation will be proportional to changes in the money supply and that total demand for money can be broken down into demand for use in transactions and demand to hold money for its liquidity.


   Understanding the Equation of Exchange  

The original form of the equation is as follows:















M


 


×


 


V


 


=


 


P


 


×


 


T
















where:





















M


=


 









the money supply, or average currency units in
















circulation in a year


























V


=


 









the velocity of money, or the average number of
















times a currency unit changes hands per year





















P


=


the average price level of goods during the year
















T


=


an index of the real value of aggregate transactions







\begin{aligned}&M\ \times\ V\ =\ P\ \times\ T\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\begin{aligned}M=\ &\text{the money supply, or average currency units in}\\&\text{circulation in a year}\end{aligned}\\&\begin{aligned}V=\ &\text{the velocity of money, or the average number of}\\&\text{times a currency unit changes hands per year}\end{aligned}\\&P=\text{the average price level of goods during the year}\\&T=\text{an index of the real value of aggregate transactions}\end{aligned}


​M × V = P × Twhere:M= ​the money supply, or average currency units incirculation in a year​V= ​the velocity of money, or the average number oftimes a currency unit changes hands per year​P=the average price level of goods during the yearT=an index of the real value of aggregate transactions​
M x V can then be interpreted as the average currency units in circulation in a year, multiplied by the average number of times each currency unit changes hands in that year, which is equal to the total amount of money spent in an economy in the year.
On the other side, P x T can be interpreted as the average price level of goods during the year multiplied by the real value of purchases in an economy during the year, which is equal to the total money spent on purchases in an economy in the year.
So the equation of exchange says that the total amount of money that changes hands in the economy will always equal the total money value of the goods and services that change hands in the economy.
Later economists restate the equation more commonly as:















M


 


×


 


V


 


=


 


P


 


×


 


Q
















where:
















Q


 


=


 an index of real expenditures
















P


 


×


 


Q


 


=


 nominal gdp







\begin{aligned}&M\ \times\ V\ =\ P\ \times\ Q\\&\textbf{where:}\\&Q\ =\ \text{an index of real expenditures}\\&P\ \times\ Q\ =\ \text{nominal gdp}\end{aligned}


​M × V = P × Qwhere:Q = an index of real expendituresP × Q = nominal gdp​
So now the equation of exchange says that total nominal expenditures is always equal to total nominal income.
The equation of exchange has two primary uses. It represents the primary expression of the quantity theory of money, which relates changes in the money supply to changes in the overall level of prices. Additionally, solving the equation for M can serve as an indicator of the demand for money in a macroeconomic model.


   The Quantity Theory of Money  

In the quantity theory of money, if the velocity of money and real output are assumed to be constant, in order to isolate the relationship between money supply and price level, then any change in the money supply will be reflected by a proportional change in the price level.
To show this, first solve for P:





P


 


=


 


M


 


×


 



(



V


Q



)




P\ =\ M\ \times\ \left(\frac{V}{Q}\right)


P = M × (QV​)
And differentiate with respect to time:







d


P




d


t




 


=


 




d


M




d


t





\frac{dP}{dt}\ =\ \frac{dM}{dt}


dtdP​ = dtdM​
This means inflation will be proportional to any increase in the money supply. This then becomes the fundamental idea behind monetarism and the impetus for Milton Friedman’s dictum that, "Inflation is always and everywhere a monetary phenomenon."


   Money Demand  

Alternatively, the equation of exchange can be used to derive the total demand for money in an economy by solving for M:





M


 


=


 



(




P


 


×


 


Q



V



)




M\ =\ \left(\frac{P\ \times\ Q}{V}\right)


M = (VP × Q​)
Assuming that money supply is equal to money demand (i.e., that financial markets are in equilibrium):






M


D



 


=


 



(




P


 


×


 


Q



V



)




M_D\ =\ \left(\frac{P\ \times\ Q}{V}\right)


MD​ = (VP × Q​)
Or:






M


D



 


=


 



(


P


 


×


 


Q


)



 


×


 



(



1


V



)




M_D\ =\ \left(P\ \times\ Q\right)\ \times\ \left(\frac{1}{V}\right)


MD​ = (P × Q) × (V1​)
This means the demand for money is proportional to nominal income and the inverse of the velocity of money. Economists typically interpret the inverse of the velocity of money as the demand to hold cash balances, so this version of the equation of exchange shows that the demand for money in an economy is made up of demand for use in transactions, (P x Q), and liquidity demand, (1/V).
What Is Equilibrium?  

Equilibrium is the state in which market supply and demand balance each other, and as a result prices become stable. Generally, an over-supply of goods or services causes prices to go down, which results in higher demand—while an under-supply or shortage causes prices to go up resulting in less demand.



The balancing effect of supply and demand results in a state of equilibrium.





Key Takeaways

A market is said to have reached equilibrium price when the supply of goods matches demand.A market in equilibrium demonstrates three characteristics: the behavior of agents is consistent, there are no incentives for agents to change behavior, and a dynamic process governs equilibrium outcomes.There are several types of equilibrium used in economics.Disequilibrium is the opposite of equilibrium and it is characterized by changes in conditions that affect market equilibrium.In reality, markets are never in perfect equilibrium, although prices do tend toward it.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding Equilibrium  

The equilibrium price is where the supply of goods matches demand. When a major index experiences a period of consolidation or sideways momentum, it can be said that the forces of supply and demand are relatively equal and the market is in a state of equilibrium.



Economists find that prices tend to fluctuate around the equilibrium levels. If the price rises too high, market forces will incentivize sellers to come in and produce more. If the price is too low, additional buyers will bid up the price. These activities keep the equilibrium level in relative balance over time.


   Special Considerations  

Economists like Adam Smith believed that a free market would tend toward equilibrium. For example, a dearth of any one good would create a higher price generally, which would reduce demand, leading to an increase in supply provided the right incentive. The same would occur in reverse order provided there was excess in any one market.



Modern economists point out that cartels or monopolistic companies can artificially hold prices higher and keep them there in order to reap higher profits. The diamond industry is a classic example of a market where demand is high, but supply is made artificially scarce by companies selling fewer diamonds in order to keep prices high.



As noted by Paul Samuelson in his 1983 work Foundations of Economic Analysis, the term equilibrium with respect to a market is not necessarily a good thing from a normative perspective, and making that value judgment could be a misstep.



Markets can be in equilibrium, but it may not mean that all is well. For example, the food markets in Ireland were at equilibrium during the great potato famine in the mid-1800s. Higher profits from selling to the British made it so the Irish and British market was at an equilibrium price that was higher than what consumers could pay, and consequently, many people starved.


   Equilibrium vs. Disequilibrium  

When markets aren't in a state of equilibrium, they are said to be in disequilibrium. Disequilibrium can happen in a flash in a more stable market or can be a systematic characteristic of certain markets.



At times disequilibrium can spill over from one market to another—for instance, if there aren’t enough transport companies or resources available to ship coffee internationally then the coffee supply for certain regions could be reduced, affecting the equilibrium of coffee markets. Economists view many labor markets as being in disequilibrium due to how legislation and public policy protect people and their jobs, or the amount they are compensated for their labor.


   Types of Equilibrium  
  Economic Equilibrium  

Economic equilibrium refers broadly to any state in the economy where forces are balanced. This can be related to prices in a market where supply is equal to demand, but can also represent the level of employment, interest rates, and so on.


  Competitive Equilbrium  

The process by which equilibrium prices are reached is through a process of competition. Among sellers to be the low-cost producer to grab the largest market share, and also among buyers to snatch up the best deals.


  General Equilibrium  

General equilibrium considers the aggregation of forces occurring at the macro-economic level, and not the micro forces of individual markets. It is a cornerstone of Walrasian economics.


  Underemployment Equilibrium  

Economists have found that there is a level of persistent unemployment that is observed when there is general equilibrium in an economy. This is known as underemployment equilibrium, and is predicted by Keynesian economic theory.


  Lindahl Equilibrium  

Lindahl equilibrium is a special case where, in theory, the optimal amount of public goods is produced and the cost of public goods is fairly shared among everyone. It describes an ideal state rarely, if ever, achieved in reality, but is used to help craft tax policy and is an important concept in welfare economics.


   Intertemporal Equilibrium  

Because prices may swing above or below the equilibrium level due to proximate changes in supply or demand at a given moment, it is best to look at this effect over time, known as intertemporal equilibrium. The concept is also used in understanding how firms and households budget and smooth spending over longer time horizons.


  Nash Equilibrium  

In game theory, Nash equilibrium is a state of play whereby the optimal strategy involves considering the optimal strategy of the other player or opponent.






The prisoner's dilemma is a common situation in game theory that exemplifies the Nash equilibrium.


   Example of Equilibrium  

A store manufactures 1,000 spinning tops and retails them at $10 per piece. But no one is willing to buy them at that price. To pump up demand, the store reduces its price to $8. There are 250 buyers at that price point. In response, the store further slashes the retail cost to $5 and garners five hundred buyers in total. Upon further reduction of the price to $2, one thousand buyers of the spinning top materialize. At this price point, supply equals demand. Hence $2 is the equilibrium price for the spinning tops.




What Happens During Market Equilibrium?
When a market is in equilibrium, prices reflect an exact balance between buyers (demand) and sellers (supply). While elegant in theory, markets are rarely in equilibrium at a given moment. Rather, equilibrium should be thought of as a long-term average level.




How Do You Calculate Equilibrium Price?
In economics, the equilibrium price is calculated by setting the supply function and demand function equal to one another and solving for the price.




What Is Equilibrium Quantity?
The amount supplied that exactly equals demand is the equilibrium quantity. In such a case, there will neither be an oversupply nor a shortage.
What Is Equilibrium Quantity?  

Equilibrium quantity is when there is no shortage or surplus of a product in the market. Supply and demand intersect, meaning the amount of an item that consumers want to buy is equal to the amount being supplied by its producers. In other words, the market has reached a perfect state of balance as prices stabilize to suit all parties.



Basic microeconomic theory provides a model to determine the optimal quantity and price of a good or service. This theory is based on the supply and demand model, which is the fundamental basis for market capitalism. It assumes that producers and consumers behave predictably and consistently and there are no other factors influencing their decisions.





Key Takeaways

Equilibrium quantity is when supply equals demand for a product.The supply and demand curves have opposite trajectories and eventually intersect, creating economic equilibrium and equilibrium quantity.Hypothetically, this is the most efficient state the market can reach and the state to which it naturally gravitates.


   Understanding Equilibrium Quantity  

In a supply and demand chart there are two curves, one representing supply and the other representing demand. These curves are plotted against price (the y-axis) and quantity (the x-axis). If looking from left to right, the supply curve slopes upwards. This is because there is a direct relationship between price and supply. The producer has a greater incentive to supply an item if the price is higher. Therefore, as the price of a product increases, so does the quantity supplied.



Meanwhile, the demand curve, representing buyers, slopes downwards. This is because there is an inverse relationship between the price and quantity demanded. Consumers are more willing to purchase goods if they are inexpensive; therefore, as the price increases, the quantity demanded decreases.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019



As the curves have opposite trajectories, they will eventually intersect on the supply and demand chart. This is the point of economic equilibrium, which also represents the equilibrium quantity and equilibrium price of a good or service.



Since the intersection occurs at a point on both the supply and demand curves, producing/buying the equilibrium quantity of a good or service at the equilibrium price should be agreeable to both producers and consumers. Hypothetically, this is the most efficient state the market can reach and the state to which it naturally gravitates.


   Special Considerations  

Supply and demand theory underpins most economic analysis, but economists caution against taking it too literally. A supply and demand chart only represents, in a vacuum, the market for one good or service. In reality, there are always many other factors influencing decisions such as logistical limitations, purchasing power, and technological changes or other industry developments.



The theory does not account for potential externalities, which can result in market failure. For example, during the Irish potato famine of the mid-19th century, Irish potatoes were still being exported to England. The market for potatoes was in equilibrium—Irish producers and English consumers were satisfied with the price and the number of potatoes in the market. However, the Irish, who were not a factor in reaching the optimum price and quantity of items, were starving.



Corrective social welfare measures to correct such a situation, or government subsidies to prop up a specific industry, can also impact the equilibrium price and quantity of a good or service.
What Is Equitable Relief?  

Equitable relief is a court-granted remedy that requires a party to act or refrain from performing a particular act in cases where legal remedies are not considered to provide sufficient restitution.





Key Takeaways

Equitable relief is granted by a court requiring one party to either act or refrain from taking an action.Equitable relief is usually a remedy for a breach of contract or in cases of intellectual property theft.A common form of equitable relief is the canceling of a contract, which ends all terms and obligations, allowing both parties to return to their pre-contract status.


   How Equitable Relief Works  

Equitable relief is distinct from a legal claim such as monetary compensation and is employed to prompt or prevent action in cases when a legal remedy would not constitute adequate restitution for the breach of contract or other offense. This prompting often takes the form of a court injunction, which enforces the remedy by punishing non-compliance with civil or criminal penalties.



Jurisdictional clauses that provide for equitable relief often require such cases to include an acknowledgment between both parties that legal relief wouldn't compensate for a breach of contract or that a breach would result in irreparable damages or injury, and acknowledgment between parties that a breach of contract could result in the offended party seeking an injunction or another form of equitable relief.



The offended party must also be found to be entirely free from blame in the dispute. Often called the "clean hands" principle, it can be applied to deny equitable relief if the offended party has not acted entirely in good faith, or has delayed unnecessarily in seeking a remedy.






Equitable relief is not the same as monetary compensation.


   Equitable Relief in Practice  

Equitable relief is almost always incurred when there has been a breach of contract. A common form of equitable relief will order the rescission of a contract, which cancels all terms and obligations and restores both parties to their pre-contract position. These often occur during contracts involving property because the personal value of property to a party can often extend beyond monetary compensation. A court could order the property to be sold pursuant to the terms of the original contract, or cancel the contract.



Courts could order rectification, a revision to a contract so that it more accurately reflects the intentions of both parties—in essence, stating what had been initially understood. They could also order that the obligations of a contract be fulfilled as initially drafted if they are found to have breached its terms.



Equitable relief is often provided in cases where intellectual property or other sensitive information has been stolen or otherwise ill-gotten. For example, gag orders, which prevent a party from publishing sensitive information, are often issued in cases of intellectual property theft. In these cases, the potential business or reputation challenges of the offending party releasing the ill-gotten information could not be adequately rectified with monetary compensation.
What Is Equity?  

Equity, typically referred to as shareholders' equity (or owners' equity for privately held companies), represents the amount of money that would be returned to a company's shareholders if all of the assets were liquidated and all of the company's debt was paid off in the case of liquidation. In the case of acquisition, it is the value of company sales minus any liabilities owed by the company not transferred with the sale.



In addition, shareholder equity can represent the book value of a company. Equity can sometimes be offered as payment-in-kind. It also represents the pro-rata ownership of a company's shares.



Equity can be found on a company's balance sheet and is one of the most common pieces of data employed by analysts to assess a company's financial health.





Key Takeaways

Equity represents the value that would be returned to a company’s shareholders if all of the assets were liquidated and all of the company's debts were paid off.We can also think of equity as a degree of residual ownership in a firm or asset after subtracting all debts associated with that asset.Equity represents the shareholders’ stake in the company, identified on a company's balance sheet.The calculation of equity is a company's total assets minus its total liabilities, and it's used in several key financial ratios such as ROE.Home equity is the value of a homeowner's property (net of debt) and is another way the term equity is used.












Investopedia / Katie Kerpel


   How Shareholder Equity Works  

By comparing concrete numbers reflecting everything the company owns and everything it owes, the "assets-minus-liabilities" shareholder equity equation paints a clear picture of a company's finances, easily interpreted by investors and analysts. Equity is used as capital raised by a company, which is then used to purchase assets, invest in projects, and fund operations. A firm typically can raise capital by issuing debt (in the form of a loan or via bonds) or equity (by selling stock). Investors usually seek out equity investments as it provides a greater opportunity to share in the profits and growth of a firm.



Equity is important because it represents the value of an investor's stake in a company, represented by the proportion of its shares. Owning stock in a company gives shareholders the potential for capital gains and dividends. Owning equity will also give shareholders the right to vote on corporate actions and elections for the board of directors. These equity ownership benefits promote shareholders' ongoing interest in the company.



Shareholder equity can be either negative or positive. If positive, the company has enough assets to cover its liabilities. If negative, the company's liabilities exceed its assets; if prolonged, this is considered balance sheet insolvency. Typically, investors view companies with negative shareholder equity as risky or unsafe investments. Shareholder equity alone is not a definitive indicator of a company's financial health; used in conjunction with other tools and metrics, the investor can accurately analyze the health of an organization.


   Formula and How to Calculate Shareholders' Equity  

The following formula and calculation can be used to determine the equity of a firm, which is derived from the accounting equation:








Shareholders’ Equity


=


Total Assets


−


Total Liabilities



\text{Shareholders' Equity} = \text{Total Assets} - \text{Total Liabilities}


Shareholders’ Equity=Total Assets−Total Liabilities



This information can be found on the balance sheet, where these four steps should be followed:



Locate the company's total assets on the balance sheet for the period.Locate total liabilities, which should be listed separately on the balance sheet.Subtract total liabilities from total assets to arrive at shareholder equity.Note that total assets will equal the sum of liabilities and total equity.



Shareholder equity can also be expressed as a company's share capital and retained earnings less the value of treasury shares. This method, however, is less common. Though both methods yield the exact figure, the use of total assets and total liabilities is more illustrative of a company's financial health.


   What the Components of Shareholder Equity Are  

Retained earnings are part of shareholder equity and are the percentage of net earnings that were not paid to shareholders as dividends. Think of retained earnings as savings since it represents a cumulative total of profits that have been saved and put aside or retained for future use. Retained earnings grow larger over time as the company continues to reinvest a portion of its income.



At some point, the amount of accumulated retained earnings can exceed the amount of equity capital contributed by stockholders. Retained earnings are usually the largest component of stockholders' equity for companies operating for many years.



Treasury shares or stock (not to be confused with U.S. Treasury bills) represent stock that the company has bought back from existing shareholders. Companies may do a repurchase when management cannot deploy all of the available equity capital in ways that might deliver the best returns. Shares bought back by companies become treasury shares, and the dollar value is noted in an account called treasury stock, a contra account to the accounts of investor capital and retained earnings. Companies can reissue treasury shares back to stockholders when companies need to raise money.



Many view stockholders' equity as representing a company's net assets—its net value, so to speak, would be the amount shareholders would receive if the company liquidated all of its assets and repaid all of its debts.


   Example of Shareholder Equity  

Using a historical example below is a portion of Exxon Mobil Corporation's (XOM) balance sheet as of September 30, 2018:



Total assets were $354,628.Total liabilities were $157,797.Total equity was $196,831.



The accounting equation whereby Assets = Liabilities + Shareholder Equity is calculated as follows:



Shareholder Equity = $354,628, (Total Assets) - $157,797 (Total Liabilities) = $196,831












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   Other Forms of Equity  

The concept of equity has applications beyond just evaluating companies. We can more generally think of equity as a degree of ownership in any asset after subtracting all debts associated with that asset.



Below are several common variations on equity:



A stock or any other security representing an ownership interest in a company.
On a company's balance sheet, the amount of funds contributed by the owners or shareholders plus the retained earnings (or losses). One may also call this stockholders' equity or shareholders' equity.
The value of securities in a margin account minus what the account holder borrowed from the brokerage in margin trading.
In real estate, the difference between the property's current fair market value and the amount the owner still owes on the mortgage. It is the amount that the owner would receive after selling a property and paying any liens. Also referred to as "real property value."
When a business goes bankrupt and has to liquidate, equity is the amount of money remaining after the business repays its creditors. This is often called "ownership equity," also known as risk capital or "liable capital."


   Private Equity   

When an investment is publicly traded, the market value of equity is readily available by looking at the company's share price and its market capitalization. For private entities, the market mechanism does not exist, so other valuation forms must be done to estimate value.



Private equity generally refers to such an evaluation of companies that are not publicly traded. The accounting equation still applies where stated equity on the balance sheet is what is left over when subtracting liabilities from assets, arriving at an estimate of book value. Privately held companies can then seek investors by selling off shares directly in private placements. These private equity investors can include institutions like pension funds, university endowments, insurance companies, or accredited individuals.



Private equity is often sold to funds and investors that specialize in direct investments in private companies or that engage in leveraged buyouts (LBOs) of public companies. In an LBO transaction, a company receives a loan from a private equity firm to fund the acquisition of a division of another company. Cash flows or the assets of the company being acquired usually secure the loan. Mezzanine debt is a private loan, usually provided by a commercial bank or a mezzanine venture capital firm. Mezzanine transactions often involve a mix of debt and equity in a subordinated loan or warrants, common stock, or preferred stock.



Private equity comes into play at different points along a company's life cycle. Typically, a young company with no revenue or earnings can't afford to borrow, so it must get capital from friends and family or individual "angel investors." Venture capitalists enter the picture when the company has finally created its product or service and is ready to bring it to market. Some of the largest, most successful corporations in the tech sector, like Google, Apple, Amazon, and Meta—or what is referred to as GAFAM—began with venture capital funding.


  Types of Private Equity Financing  

Venture capitalists (VCs) provide most private equity financing in return for an early minority stake. Sometimes, a venture capitalist will take a seat on the board of directors for its portfolio companies, ensuring an active role in guiding the company. Venture capitalists look to hit big early on and exit investments within five to seven years. An LBO is one of the most common types of private equity financing and might occur as a company matures.



A final type of private equity is a Private Investment in a Public Company (PIPE). A PIPE is a private investment firm's, a mutual fund's, or another qualified investors' purchase of stock in a company at a discount to the current market value (CMV) per share to raise capital.



Unlike shareholder equity, private equity is not accessible to the average individual. Only "accredited" investors, those with a net worth of at least $1 million, can take part in private equity or venture capital partnerships. Such endeavors might require form 4, depending on their scale. For investors who don't meet this marker, there is the option of private equity exchange-traded funds (ETFs).


   Home Equity   

Home equity is roughly comparable to the value contained in homeownership. The amount of equity one has in their residence represents how much of the home they own outright by subtracting from the mortgage debt owed. Equity on a property or home stems from payments made against a mortgage, including a down payment and increases in property value.



Home equity is often an individual’s greatest source of collateral, and the owner can use it to get a home equity loan, which some call a second mortgage or a home equity line of credit (HELOC). An equity takeout is taking money out of a property or borrowing money against it.



For example, let’s say Sam owns a home with a mortgage on it. The house has a current market value of $175,000, and the mortgage owed totals $100,000. Sam has $75,000 worth of equity in the home or $175,000 (asset total) - $100,000 (liability total).


   Brand Equity   

When determining an asset's equity, particularly for larger corporations, it is important to note these assets may include both tangible assets, like property, and intangible assets, like the company's reputation and brand identity. Through years of advertising and the development of a customer base, a company's brand can come to have an inherent value. Some call this value "brand equity," which measures the value of a brand relative to a generic or store-brand version of a product.



For example, many soft-drink lovers will reach for a Coke before buying a store-brand cola because they prefer the taste or are more familiar with the flavor. If a 2-liter bottle of store-brand cola costs $1 and a 2-liter bottle of Coke costs $2, then Coca-Cola has brand equity of $1.



There is also such a thing as negative brand equity, which is when people will pay more for a generic or store-brand product than they will for a particular brand name. Negative brand equity is rare and can occur because of bad publicity, such as a product recall or a disaster.


   Equity vs. Return on Equity  

Return on equity (ROE) is a measure of financial performance calculated by dividing net income by shareholder equity. Because shareholder equity is equal to a company’s assets minus its debt, ROE could be considered the return on net assets. ROE is considered a measure of how effectively management uses a company’s assets to create profits.



Equity, as we have seen, has various meanings but usually represents ownership in an asset or a company, such as stockholders owning equity in a company. ROE is a financial metric that measures how much profit is generated from a company’s shareholder equity.




What Is Equity in Finance?
Equity is an important concept in finance that has different specific meanings depending on the context. Perhaps the most common type of equity is “shareholders’ equity," which is calculated by taking a company’s total assets and subtracting its total liabilities.Shareholders’ equity is, therefore, essentially the net worth of a corporation. If the company were to liquidate, shareholders’ equity is the amount of money that would theoretically be received by its shareholders.




What Are Some Other Terms Used to Describe Equity?
Other terms that are sometimes used to describe this concept include shareholders’ equity, book value, and net asset value. Depending on the context, the precise meanings of these terms may differ, but generally speaking, they refer to the value of an investment that would be left over after paying off all of the liabilities associated with that investment. This term is also used in real estate investing to refer to the difference between a property’s fair market value and the outstanding value of its mortgage loan.




How Is Equity Used by Investors?
Equity is a very important concept for investors. For instance, in looking at a company, an investor might use shareholders’ equity as a benchmark for determining whether a particular purchase price is expensive. If that company has historically traded at a price to book value of 1.5, for instance, then an investor might think twice before paying more than that valuation unless they feel the company’s prospects have fundamentally improved. On the other hand, an investor might feel comfortable buying shares in a relatively weak business as long as the price they pay is sufficiently low relative to its equity.




How Is Equity Calculated?
Equity is equal to total assets minus its total liabilities. These figures can all be found on a company's balance sheet for a company. For a homeowner, equity would be the value of the home less any outstanding mortgage debt or liens.
What Is Equity Accounting?  

Equity accounting is an accounting process for recording investments in associated companies or entities. Companies sometimes have ownership interests in other companies. Typically, equity accounting–also called the equity method–is applied when an investor or holding entity owns 20–50% of the voting stock of the associate company. The equity method of accounting is used only when an investor or investing company can exert a significant influence over the investee or owned company.





Key Takeaways

Equity accounting is an accounting method for recording investments in associated companies or entities.The equity method is applied when a company's ownership interest in another company is valued at 20–50% of the stock in the investee.The equity method requires the investing company to record the investee's profits or losses in proportion to the percentage of ownership.The equity method also makes periodic adjustments to the value of the asset on the investor's balance sheet. 


   Understanding Equity Accounting  

When using the equity method, an investor recognizes only its share of the profits and losses of the investee, meaning it records a proportion of the profits based on the percentage of ownership interest. These profits and losses are also reflected in the financial accounts of the investee. If the investing entity records any profit or loss, it is reflected on its income statement.



Also, the initial investment amount in the company is recorded as an asset on the investing company's balance sheet. However, changes in the investment value are also recorded and adjusted on the investor's balance sheet. In other words, profit increases of the investee would increase the investment value, while losses would decrease the investment amount on the balance sheet.


   Equity Accounting and Investor Influence  

Under equity accounting, the biggest consideration is the level of investor influence over the operating or financial decisions of the investee. When there's a significant amount of money invested in a company by another company, the investor can exert influence over the financial and operating decisions, which ultimately impacts the financial results of the investee.



While no precise measure can gauge an exact level of influence, several common indicators of operational and financial policies include:



Board of directors representation, meaning a seat on the board of the owned company
Policy-making participation
Intra-entity transactions that are material
Intra-entity management personnel interchange
Technological dependence
The proportion of ownership by the investor in comparison to that of other investors



When an investor acquires 20% or more of the voting stock of an investee, it is presumed that, without evidence to the contrary, that an investor maintains the ability to exercise significant influence over the investee. Conversely, when an ownership position is less than 20%, there is a presumption that the investor does not exert significant influence over the investee unless it can otherwise demonstrate such ability.



Interestingly, substantial or even majority ownership of an investee by another party does not necessarily prohibit the investor from also having significant influence with the investee. For instance, many sizable institutional investors may enjoy more implicit control than their absolute ownership level would ordinarily allow.


   Equity Accounting vs. Cost Method  

If there is no significant influence over the investee, the investor instead uses the cost method to account for its investment in an associated company. The cost method of accounting records the cost of the investment as an asset at its historical cost. However, the value of the asset doesn't change regardless of whether the investee reported profits or losses. On the other hand, the equity method makes periodic adjustments to the value of the asset on the investor's balance sheet since they have a 20%-50% controlling investment interest in the investee.
What Is the Equity Capital Market (ECM)?  

The equity capital market (ECM) refers to the arena where financial institutions help companies raise equity capital and where stocks are traded. It consists of the primary market for private placements, initial public offerings (IPOs), and warrants; and the secondary market, where existing shares are sold, as well as futures, options, and other listed securities are traded.





Key Takeaways

Equity Capital Markets (ECM) refers to a broad network of financial institutions, channels, and markets that together assist companies to raise capital.Equity capital is raised by issuing shares in the company, publicly or privately, and is used to fund the expansion of the business.Primary equity markets refer to raising money from private placement and mainly involves OTC markets.Secondary equity markets involve stock exchanges and are the primary venue for public investment in corporate equity.ECM activities include bringing shares to IPO and secondary offerings.


   Understanding Equity Capital Markets (ECMs)  

The equity capital market (ECM) is broader than just the stock market because it covers a wider range of financial instruments and activities. These include the marketing and distribution and allocation of issues, initial public offerings (IPOs), private placements, derivatives trading, and book building. The main participants in the ECM are investment banks, broker-dealers, retail investors, venture capitalists, private equity firms, and angel investors.



Together with the bond market, the ECM channels money provided by savers and depository institutions to investors. As part of the capital markets, the ECM, leads, in theory, to the efficient allocation of resources within a market economy.


  Primary Equity Market  

The primary equity market, where companies issue new securities, is divided into a private placement market, and a primary public market. In the private placement market, companies raise private equity through unquoted shares that are sold to investors directly. In the primary public market, private companies can go public through IPOs, and listed companies can issue new equity through seasoned issues.






Private equity firms may use both cash and debt in their investment (such as in a leveraged buyout), whereas venture capital firms typically deal only with equity investments. 


  Secondary Equity Market  

The secondary market, where no new capital is created, is what most people typically think of as the "stock market”. It is where existing shares are bought and sold, and consists of stock exchanges and over-the-counter (OTC) markets, where a network of dealers trade stocks without an exchange acting as an intermediary.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Raising Capital in Equity Markets  

Raising capital through equity markets offers several advantages for companies.



The first one is a lower debt to equity ratio. Companies will not need to access debt markets with expensive interest rates to finance future growth. Equity markets are also relatively more flexible and have a greater variety of financing options for growth as compared to debt markets. In some instances, especially in private placement, equity markets also help entrepreneurs and company founders bring in experience and oversight from senior colleagues. This will help companies expand their business to new markets and products or provide needed counsel.



But there are also problems with raising capital in equity markets. For example, the route to a public offering can be an expensive and time-consuming one. Numerous actors are involved in the process, resulting in a multiplication of costs and time required to bring a company to market.



Added to this is the constant scrutiny. While equity market investors are more tolerant of risk as compared to their debt market counterparts, they are also focused on returns. As such, investors impatient with a company that has consistently produced negative returns may abandon it, leading to a sharp drop in its valuation.


   Equity Capital FAQs  
  What Is Equity Capital and Debt Capital?  

Companies seek to raise capital in order to finance their operations and grow. Equity funding involves exchanging shares of a company's residual ownership in return for capital. Debt funding instead relies on borrowing, where lenders are repaid principal and interest without receiving any ownership claim. In general, equity capital is more expensive and has fewer tax benefits than debt capital, but also comes with a great deal of operational freedom and less liability in the case that business fails.


  How Is Equity Capital Calculated?  

The equity of a company, or shareholders' equity, is the net difference between a company's total assets and its total liabilities. When a company has publicly-traded stock, the value of its market capitalization can be calculated as the share price times the number of shares outstanding.


  What Are the Types of Equity Capital?  

Equity can be categorized along several dimensions. Private equity differs from publicly-traded shares, where the former is placed via primary markets and the latter on secondary markets. Common stock is the most ubiquitous form of equity, but companies may also issue different share classes including allocations to preferred stock.


  What Is the Difference Between Capital and Equity?  

Capital is any resource, including cash, that a company possesses and uses for productive purposes. Equity is but one form of capital.
What Is an Equity Co-Investment?  

An equity co-investment is a minority investment in a company made by investors alongside a private equity fund manager or venture capital (VC) firm. Equity co-investment enables other investors to participate in potentially highly profitable investments without paying the usual high fees charged by a private equity fund.



Equity co-investment opportunities are typically restricted to large institutional investors who already have an existing relationship with the private equity fund manager and are often not available to smaller or retail investors.





Key Takeaways

Equity co-investments are relatively smaller investments made in a company concurrent with larger investments by a private equity or VC fund.Co-investors are typically charged a reduced fee, or no fee, for the investment and receive ownership privileges equal to the percentage of their investment.They offer benefits to the larger funds in the form of increased capital and reduced risk while investors benefit by diversifying their portfolio and establishing relationships with senior private equity professionals.


   Understanding Equity Co-Investments  

According to a study by Preqin, 80% of LPs reported better performance from equity co-investments compared to traditional fund structures. In a typical co-investment fund, the investor pays a fund sponsor or general partner (GP) with whom the investor has a well-defined private equity partnership. The partnership agreement outlines how the GP allocates capital and diversifies assets. Co-investments avoid typical limited partnership (LP) and general (GP) funds by investing directly in a company. 


   Why Limited Partners Want More Co-Investments  

In 2018, consulting firm McKinsey stated that the value of co-investment deals has more than doubled to $104 billion since 2012. The number of LPs making co-investments in PE rose from 42 percent to 55 percent in the last five years. But direct investing LPs grew by only one percent from 30 percent to 31 percent during the same period.



Why would a private equity fund manager give away a lucrative opportunity? Private equity is usually invested through an LP vehicle in a portfolio of companies. In certain situations, the LP's funds may already be fully committed to a number of companies, which means that if another prime opportunity emerges, the private equity fund manager may either have to pass up the opportunity or offer it to some investors as an equity co-investment. 



According to Axial, an equity raising platform, almost 80% of LPs prefer small to mid-market buyout strategies and $2 to $10 million per co-investment. In simple words, this means that they prefer to focus on less flashy companies with expertise in a niche area as opposed to chasing high-profile company investments. Almost 50% of sponsors did not charge any management fee on co-investments in 2015. 



Equity co-investment has accounted for a significant amount of recent growth in private equity fundraising since the financial crisis compared to traditional fund investments. Consulting firm PwC states that LPs are increasingly seeking co-investment opportunities when negotiating new fund agreements with advisers because there is greater deal selectivity and greater potential for higher returns. 



Most LPs pay a 2% management fee and 20% carried interest to the fund manager who is the GP while co-investors benefit from lower fees or no fees in some cases, which boosts their returns.


   The Attraction of Co-Investments for General Partners  

At first glance, it would seem that GPs lose on fee income and relinquish some control of the fund through co-investments. However, GPs can avoid capital exposure limitations or diversification requirements by offering a co-investment.



For example, a $500 million fund could select three enterprises valued at $300 million. The partnership agreement might limit fund investments to $100 million, which would mean the firms would be leveraged by $200 million for each company. If a new opportunity merged with an enterprise value at $350, the GP would need to seek funding outside its fund structure because it can only invest $100 million directly. The GP could borrow $100 million for financing and offer co-investment opportunities to existing LPs or outside parties.


   The Nuances of Co-Investments  

While co-investing in private equity deals has its advantages, co-investors in such deals should read the fine print before agreeing to them.



The most important aspect of such deals is the absence of fee transparency. Private equity firms do not offer much detail about the fees they charge LPs. In cases like co-investing, where they purportedly offer no-fee services to invest in large deals, there might be hidden costs. For example, they may charge monitoring fees, amounting to several million dollars, that may not be evident at first glance from LPs.



There is also the possibility that PE firms may receive payments from companies in their portfolio to promote the deals. Such deals are also risky for co-investors because they have no say in selecting or structuring the deal. Essentially, the success (or failure) of the deals rests on the acumen of private equity professionals that are in charge. In some cases, that may not always be optimal as the deal may sink.



One such example is the case of Brazilian data center company Aceco T1. Private equity firm KKR Co. acquired the company in 2014 along with co-investors, Singaporean investment firm GIC and the Teacher Retirement System of Texas. The company was found to have cooked its books since 2012 and KKR wrote down its investment in the company to zero in 2017.
What Is Equity Compensation?  

Equity compensation is non-cash pay that is offered to employees. Equity compensation may include options, restricted stock, and performance shares; all of these investment vehicles represent ownership in the firm for a company's employees.



Equity compensation allows the employees of the firm to share in the profits via appreciation and can encourage retention, particularly if there are vesting requirements. At times, equity compensation may accompany a below-market salary.





Key Takeaways

Equity compensation is non-cash pay that is offered to employees.Equity compensation may include options, restricted stock, and performance shares; all of these investment vehicles represent ownership in the firm for a company's employees.At times, equity compensation may accompany a below-market salary.Equity compensation is a benefit provided by many public companies and some private companies, especially startup companies. 


   Understanding Equity Compensation  

Equity compensation is a benefit provided by many public companies and some private companies, especially startup companies. Recently launched firms may lack the cash or want to invest cash flow into growth initiatives, making equity compensation an option to attract high-quality employees. Traditionally, technology companies in both the start-up phase and more mature companies have used equity compensation to reward employees.



With equity compensation, there is never a guarantee that your equity stake will actually pay off. As opposed to equity (or in combination with equity compensation), being paid a salary can be beneficial if you know exactly what you're getting. There are many variables that can impact your equity compensation.


   Types of Equity Compensation  
  Stock Options  

Companies that offer equity compensation can give employees stock options that offer the right to purchase shares of the companies' stocks at a predetermined price, also referred to as exercise price. This right may vest with time, allowing employees to gain control of this option after working for the company for a certain period of time. When the option vests, they gain the right to sell or transfer the option. This method encourages employees to stick with the company for the long term. However, the option typically has an expiration.



Employees who have this option are not considered stockholders and do not share the same rights as shareholders. There are different tax consequences to options that are vested versus those that are not, so employees must look into what tax rules apply to their specific situations.


  Non-Qualified Stock Options (NSOs) and Incentive Stock Options (ISOs)  

Additional types of equity compensation include non-qualified stock options (NSO) and incentive stock options (ISOs). ISOs are only available to employees (and not non-employee directors or consultants). These options provide special tax advantages. For example, with non-qualified stock options, employers do not have to report when they receive this option or when it becomes exercisable.


  Restricted Stock  

Restricted stock requires the completion of a vesting period. Vesting may be done all at once after a certain period of time. Alternatively, vesting may be done equally over a set period of years, or any other combination that the management of a company finds suitable. Restricted stock units (RSUs) are similar, but they represent the company's promise to pay shares based on a vesting schedule. This offers some advantages to the company, but employees do not gain any rights of stock ownership, such as voting, until the shares are earned and issued.


  Performance Shares  

Performance shares are awarded only if certain specified measures are met. These could include metrics, such as an earnings per share (EPS) target, return on equity (ROE), or the total return of the company's stock in relation to an index. Typically, performance periods are over a multi-year time horizon.
What Is an Equity Derivative?  

An equity derivative is a financial instrument whose value is based on the equity movements of the underlying asset. For example, a stock option is an equity derivative, because its value is based on the price movements of the underlying stock.



Investors can use equity derivatives to hedge the risk associated with taking long or short positions in stocks, or they can use them to speculate on the price movements of the underlying asset. 





Key Takeaways

Equity derivatives are financial instruments whose value is derived from price movements of the underlying asset, where that asset is a stock or stock index.Traders use equity derivatives to speculate and manage risk for their stock portfolios.Equity derivatives can take on two major forms: equity options and equity index futures. Equity swaps, warrants, and single-stock futures are also equity derivatives.


   Understanding Equity Derivatives  

Equity derivatives can act like an insurance policy. The investor receives a potential payout by paying the cost of the derivative contract, which is referred to as a premium in the options market. An investor that purchases a stock, can protect against a loss in share value by purchasing a put option. On the other hand, an investor that has shorted shares can hedge against an upward move in the share price by purchasing a call option.



Equity derivatives can also be used for speculation purposes. For example, a trader can buy equity options, instead of actual stock, to generate profits from the underlying asset's price movements. There are two benefits to such a strategy. First, traders can cut down on costs by purchasing options (which are cheaper) rather than the actual stock. Second, traders can also hedge risks by placing put and call options on the stock's price.



Other equity derivatives include stock index futures, equity index swaps, and convertible bonds.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   Using Equity Options  

Equity options are derived from a single equity security. Investors and traders can use equity options to take a long or short position in a stock without actually buying or shorting the stock. This is advantageous because taking a position with options allows the investor/trader more leverage in that the amount of capital needed is much less than a similar outright long or short position on margin. Investors/traders can, therefore, profit more from a price movement in the underlying stock. 



For example, buying 100 shares of a $10 stock costs $1,000. Buying a call option with a $10 strike price may only cost $0.50, or $50 since one option controls 100 shares ($0.50 x 100 shares). If the shares move up to $11 the option is worth at least $1, and the options trader doubles their money. The stock trader makes $100 (position is now worth $1,100), which is a 10% gain on the $1,000 they paid. Comparatively, the options trader makes a better percentage return.



If the underlying stock moves in the wrong direction and the options are out of the money at the time of their expiration, they become worthless and the trader loses the premium they paid for the option.



Another popular equity options technique is trading option spreads. Traders take combinations of long and short option positions, with different strike prices and expiration dates, for the purpose of extracting profit from the option premiums with minimal risk.


   Equity Index Futures  

A futures contract is similar to an option in that its value is derived from an underlying security, or in the case of an index futures contract, a group of securities that make up an index. For example, the S&P 500, the Dow index, and the NASDAQ index all have futures contracts available that are priced based on the value of the indexes.



However, the values of the indexes are derived from the aggregate values of all the underlying stocks in the index. Therefore, index futures ultimately derive their value from equities, hence their name "equity index futures". These futures contracts are liquid and versatile financial tools. They can be used for everything from intraday trading to hedging risk for large diversified portfolios.



While futures and options are both derivatives, they function in different ways. Options give the buyer the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell the underlying at the strike price. Futures are an obligation for both the buyer and seller. Therefore, the risk is not capped in futures like it is when buying an option.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is an Equity-Efficiency Tradeoff?  

An equity-efficiency tradeoff is when there is some kind of conflict between maximizing economic efficiency and maximizing the equity (or fairness) of society in some way. When and if such a tradeoff exists, economists or public policymakers may decide to sacrifice some amount of economic efficiency for the sake of achieving a more just or equitable society.





Key Takeaways

The equity-efficiency tradeoff is when there is some conflict between maximizing pure economic efficiency and achieving other social goals.Most economic theory uses a utilitarian approach as its ethical framework, but this may conflict with other moral values that people hold, leading to an equity-efficiency tradeoff.Inequality and the redistribution of income is a common example of an equity-efficiency tradeoff.


   Understanding the Equity-Efficiency Tradeoff  

An equity-efficiency tradeoff results when maximizing the efficiency of an economy leads to a reduction in its equity—as in how equitably its wealth or income is distributed.



Economic efficiency, producing those goods and services that provide the most benefit at the lowest cost, is a primary normative goal for most economic theories. This can apply to an individual consumer or a business firm, but mostly, it refers to the efficiency of an economy as a whole at satisfying the wants and needs of the people in the economy.



Economists define and attempt to measure economic efficiency in several different ways, but the standard approaches all involve a basically utilitarian approach. An economy is efficient in this sense when it maximizes the total utility of the participants.



The concept of utility as a quantity that can be maximized and summed up across all people in a society is a way of making normative goals solvable, or at least approachable, with the positive, mathematical models that economists have developed. Welfare economics is the branch of economics most concerned with calculating and maximizing social utility.



A conflict (and tradeoff) between efficiency and equity can occur if the members of society—or the policymakers who decide how a society operates—prefer other moral or ethical systems over pure utilitarianism. When people decide that other moral values or rights outweigh pure utility maximization, societies often pursue policies that do not lead to maximum social utility in favor of these other values.






The equity-efficiency tradeoff is often associated with normative economics, which emphasizes value judgments and statements of “what ought to be.”


   Examples of the Equity-Efficiency Tradeoff  

If the utility that one individual gains by poking another person in the eye is greater than the suffering caused, then a purely utilitarian approach would permit or even encourage the eye poking to maximize total social utility. However, almost all people would agree that this violates basic morality and leads to an inequitable outcome for the eye-poking victim.



In a more complicated example, it is often the case that the greatest economic gains—and thus the greatest total utility—occurs when the most successful businesses and entrepreneurs earn higher incomes than others, to encourage more productive behavior. However, this may lead to very unequal incomes. When this happens, policymakers may decide that it is better for society to redistribute some income from higher- to lower-income individuals for the sake of fairness, even though this might reduce the utility of the high-income earners or even society as a whole.



This is the most common form of the equity-efficiency tradeoff, though it also can involve the production, distribution, and consumption of all kinds of goods and services rather than just incomes.




Why Do Equity-Efficiency Tradeoffs Occur?
Maximizing economic efficiency and ensuring the equal distribution of resources seldom go hand in hand, making equity-efficiency tradeoffs fairly common. There are arguments that economic gain doesn’t necessarily have to come at the expense of greater inequality. However, in most capitalist societies, that is precisely what happens.




What Is More Important: Equity or Efficiency?
Both are important, though they cannot always be achieved simultaneously. Most economies generally strive to get the maximum benefits from the resources at their disposal, which seems like a no-brainer. The issue is making sure those benefits are distributed fairly among all people in society.It’s tricky to keep everyone happy, and opinions vary about which of the two, equity or efficiency, should take precedence—assuming, of course, that they cannot co-exist harmoniously.




Can Equity and Efficiency Be Achieved Simultaneously?
It is a common assumption that greater equity comes at a cost of less economic efficiency. That isn’t necessarily the case, though. For example, the Nordic model, a set of economic standards loosely followed by Sweden, Norway, Finland, Denmark, and Iceland, has given the world an example of how free-market capitalism and a generous welfare system can co-exist harmoniously. Such a system works mainly because these countries have a culture of collectivity, and taxpayers’ money is spent in a way that benefits all.
What Is Equity Financing?  

Equity financing is the process of raising capital through the sale of shares. Companies raise money because they might have a short-term need to pay bills or need funds for a long-term project that promotes growth. By selling shares, a business effectively sells ownership of its company in return for cash.



Equity financing comes from a variety of sources. For example, an entrepreneur's friends and family, professional investors, or an initial public offering (IPO) may provide needed capital.



An IPO is a process that private companies undergo to offer shares of their business to the public in a new stock issuance. Public share issuance allows a company to raise capital from public investors. Industry giants, such as Google and Meta (formerly Facebook), raised billions in capital through IPOs.



While the term equity financing refers to the financing of public companies listed on an exchange, the term also applies to private company financing.





Key Takeaways


Equity financing is used when companies need cash.
It is typical for businesses to use equity financing several times as they become mature companies.
There are two methods of equity financing: the private placement of stock with investors and public stock offerings.
Equity financing differs from debt financing: the first involves selling a portion of equity in a company, while the latter involves borrowing money.
National and local governments closely monitor equity financing to ensure it's done according to regulations.



   How Equity Financing Works  

Equity financing involves the sale of common stock and other equity or quasi-equity instruments such as preferred stock, convertible preferred stock, and equity units that include common shares and warrants.



A startup that grows into a successful company will have several rounds of equity financing as it evolves. Since a startup typically attracts different types of investors at various stages of its evolution, it may use other equity instruments for its financing needs.



For example, angel investors and venture capitalists—generally the first investors in a startup—favor convertible preferred shares rather than common stock in exchange for funding new companies because the former have more significant upside potential and some downside protection.



Once a company has grown large enough to consider going public, it may consider selling common stock to institutional and retail investors.



Later, if the company needs additional capital, it may choose secondary equity financing options, such as a rights offering or an offering of equity units that includes warrants as a sweetener.






Equity financing is distinct from debt financing. With debt financing, a company assumes a loan and pays back the loan over time with interest. Equity financing involves selling ownership shares in return for funds.


   Types of Equity Financing  
  Individual Investors  

These are often friends, family members, and colleagues of business owners. Individual investors usually have less money to invest, so more are needed to reach financing goals. These investors may have no relevant industry experience, business skills, or guidance to contribute to a business.


  Angel Investors  

Often, these are wealthy individuals or groups interested in funding businesses they believe will provide attractive returns. Angel investors can invest substantial amounts and provide needed insight, connections, and advice due to their industry experience. Typically, angels invest in the early stage of a business's development.


  Venture Capitalists  

Venture capitalists are individuals or firms capable of making substantial investments in businesses that they view as having very high and rapid growth potential, competitive advantages, and solid prospects for success. They usually demand a noteworthy share of ownership in a business for their financial investment, resources, and connections. In fact, they may insist on significant involvement in managing a company's planning, operations, and daily activities to protect their investment. Venture capitalists typically get involved early and exit at the IPO stage, where they can reap enormous profits.


  Initial Public Offerings  

A more well-established business can raise funds through IPOs, selling company stock shares to the public. Due to the expense, time, and effort that IPOs require, this type of equity financing occurs in a later stage of development after the company has grown. Investors in IPOs expect less control than venture capitalists and angel investors.


  Crowdfunding  

Crowdfunding involves individual investors investing small amounts via an online platform (such as Kickstarter, Indiegogo, and Crowdfundr) to help a company reach particular financial goals. Such investors often share a common belief in the company's mission and goals.


   Equity Financing vs. Debt Financing  

Businesses typically have two options for financing when they want to raise capital for business needs: equity financing and debt financing. Debt financing involves borrowing money. Equity financing involves selling a portion of equity in the company. While there are distinct advantages to both types of financing, most companies use a combination of equity and debt financing.


  No Ownership Issues With Debt  

The most common form of debt financing is a loan. Unlike equity financing, which carries no repayment obligation, debt financing requires a company to pay back the money it receives, plus interest. However, an advantage of a loan (and debt financing, in general) is that it does not require a company to give up a portion of its ownership to shareholders.



With debt financing, the lender has no control over the business's operations. Once you pay back the loan, your relationship with the lender ends. Companies that elect to raise capital by selling stock to investors must share their profits and consult with these investors when they make decisions that impact the entire company.


  Operational and Expense Differences  

Debt financing can also restrict a company's operations, limiting its ability to take advantage of opportunities outside of its core business. In general, companies want a relatively low debt-to-equity ratio. Creditors look more favorably on such a metric and may allow additional debt financing in the future if a pressing need arises.



Finally, interest paid on loans is tax deductible as a business expense. Loan payments make forecasting for future expenses easy because the amount does not fluctuate.


  Factors to Consider  

When deciding whether to seek debt or equity financing, companies usually consider these three factors:



What source of funding is most easily accessible for the company?
What is the company's cash flow?
How important is it for principal owners to maintain complete control of the company?



If a company has given investors a percentage of their company through the sale of equity, the only way to remove them (and their stake in the business) is to repurchase their shares, a process called a buy-out. However, repurchasing the shares will likely cost more than you received when you issued them.


   Reasons to Choose Equity Financing  
  You're a Startup  

Businesses in their early stages can be of particular interest to angel investors and venture capitalists. That's because of the high return potential they may see due to their experience and skills.


  Established Lending Sources Ignore You  

Equity financing is a solution when established financing methods aren't available due to the nature of the business. For example, traditional lenders such as banks often won't extend loans to companies they consider too significant a risk because of an owner's lack of business experience or an unproven business concept.


  You Don't Want to Incur Debt  

With equity financing, you don't add to your existing debt load and don't have a payment obligation. Investors assume the risk of investment loss.


  You Get Guidance From Experts  

Equity financing delivers more than money. Depending on the source of the funds, you may also receive and benefit from the valuable resources, guidance, skills, and experience of investors who want you to succeed.


  Your Goal Is the Sale of Your Company  

Equity financing can raise the substantial capital you may need to promote rapid and greater growth, making your company attractive to buyers and a sale possible.


   Pros and Cons of Equity Financing  

While equity financing has benefits, there are some disadvantages to being funded this way.





Pros of Equity Financing

No obligation to repay the money
No additional financial burden on the company
Large investors can provide a wealth of business expertise, resources, guidance, and contacts



Cons of Equity Financing

You have to give investors an ownership percentage of your company
You have to share your profits with investors
You give up some control over your company
It may be more expensive than borrowing





  Pros Explained  

Equity financing results in no debt that must be repaid. It's also an option if your business can't obtain a loan. It's seen as a lower risk financing option because investors seek a return on their investment rather than the repayment of a loan. Plus, investors typically are more interested in helping you succeed than lenders are because the rewards can be substantial.



Equity financing offered by angel investors and venture capitalists can provide access to outstanding business expertise, insight, and advice. It can also provide you with new and vital business contacts and networks that may lead to additional funding.


  Cons Explained  

The stakes taken by investors providing equity financing can be significant, and thus, profits going to the business owners are reduced. Even small common stock investors get a share of the profits. Moreover, investors may want to be consulted whenever you plan to make decisions that will impact the company.



In exchange for the large amounts that angel investors and venture capitalists may invest, business owners must give over some percentage of ownership. That can translate to having less control over your own company.



The typically higher rate of return demanded by large investors can easily exceed that lenders charge. Also, shareholder dividends aren't tax deductible. Interest payments on loans are, with some exceptions.


   Example of Equity Financing  

Say that you've started a small tech company with your own capital of $1.5 million. At this stage, you have 100% ownership and control. Due to the industry that you're in and a fresh social media concept, your company attracts the interest of various investors, including angel investors and venture capitalists.



You're aware that you'll need additional funds to keep up a rapid pace of growth, so you decide to consider an outside investor. After meeting with a few and discussing your company's plans, goals, and financial needs with each, you decide to accept the $500,000 offered by an angel investor who you feel brings enough expertise to the table in addition to the funding. The amount is enough for this round of funding. Plus, you don't wish to relinquish a greater percentage of your company ownership by taking a larger amount.



Thus, the total invested in your company is now $2 million ($1.5 million + $500,000). The angel investor owns a 25% stake ($500,000/$2 million), and you maintain a 75% stake.


   Special Considerations  

The equity-financing process is governed by rules imposed by a local or national securities authority in most jurisdictions. Such regulation is primarily designed to protect the investing public from unscrupulous operators who may raise funds from unsuspecting investors and disappear with the financing proceeds.



Equity financing is thus often accompanied by an offering memorandum or prospectus, which contains extensive information that should help the investor make an informed decision on the merits of the financing. The memorandum or prospectus will state the company's activities, give information on its officers and directors, discuss how the financing proceeds will be used, outline the risk factors, and have financial statements.



Investor appetite for equity financing depends significantly on the state of the financial markets in general and equity markets in particular. While a steady pace of equity financing indicates investor confidence, a torrent of financing may indicate excessive optimism and a looming market top.



For example, IPOs by dot-coms and technology companies reached record levels in the late 1990s, before the "tech wreck" that engulfed the Nasdaq from 2000 to 2002.



The pace of equity financing typically drops off sharply after a sustained market correction due to investor risk aversion during such periods.




How Does Equity Financing Work?
Equity financing involves selling a portion of a company's equity in return for capital. By selling shares, owners effectively sell ownership of their company in return for cash.




What Are the Different Types of Equity Financing?
Companies use two primary methods to obtain equity financing: the private placement of stock with investors or venture capital firms and public stock offerings. It is more common for young companies and startups to choose private placement because it is more straightforward.




Is Equity Financing Better Than Debt?
The most important benefit of equity financing is that the money does not need to be repaid. However, the cost of equity is often higher than the cost of debt.


   The Bottom Line  

Companies often require outside investment to maintain their operations and invest in future growth. Any smart business strategy will include a consideration of the balance of debt and equity financing that is the most cost-effective.



Equity financing can come from various sources. Regardless of the source, the greatest advantage of equity financing is that it carries no repayment obligation and provides extra capital that a company can use to expand its operations.
What is an Equity Fund  

An equity fund is a mutual fund that invests principally in stocks. It can be actively or passively (index fund) managed. Equity funds are also known as stock funds.



Stock mutual funds are principally categorized according to company size, the investment style of the holdings in the portfolio and geography.


   BREAKING DOWN Equity Fund  

The size of an equity fund is determined by a market capitalization, while the investment style, reflected in the fund's stock holdings, is also used to categorize equity mutual funds.



Equity funds are also categorized by whether they are domestic (U.S.) or international. These can be broad market, regional or single-country funds.



Some specialty equity funds target business sectors, such as health care, commodities and real estate.


   Ideal Investment Vehicle  

In many ways, equity funds are ideal investment vehicles for investors that are not as well-versed in financial investing or do not possess a large amount of capital with which to invest. Equity funds are practical investments for most people.



The attributes that make equity funds most suitable for small individual investors are the reduction of risk resulting from a fund's portfolio diversification and the relatively small amount of capital required to acquire shares of an equity fund. A large amount of investment capital would be required for an individual investor to achieve a similar degree of risk reduction through diversification of a portfolio of direct stock holdings. Pooling small investors' capital allows an equity fund to diversify effectively without burdening each investor with large capital requirements.



The price of the equity fund is based on the fund's net asset value (NAV) less its liabilities. A more diversified fund means that there is less negative effect of an individual stock's adverse price movement on the overall portfolio and on the share price of the equity fund.



Equity funds are managed by experienced professional portfolio managers, and their past performance is a matter of public record. Transparency and reporting requirements for equity funds are heavily regulated by the federal government.


   An Equity Fund for Everyone  

Another great feature of equity funds is the sheer number of funds available. In the mutual fund arena as a whole, equity funds are the most popular type of mutual funds, and as of 2017, there were more than 9,350 mutual funds available in the market. Whether it’s a particular market sector (technology, financial, pharmaceutical), a specific stock exchange (such as the New York Stock Exchange or Nasdaq), foreign or domestic markets, income or growth stocks, high or low risk, or a specific interest group (political, religious, brand), there are equity funds of every type and characteristic available to match every risk profile and investment objective that investors may have.



Some equity funds are also divided into those pursuing income or capital appreciation or both. Income funds seek stocks that will pay dividends, usually investing in equities of blue-chip companies. Other equity funds primarily seek capital appreciation, or the objective that the stocks in the portfolio will go up in share price.
What Is an Equity-Linked Note (ELN)?  

An equity-linked note (ELN) is an investment product that combines a fixed-income investment with additional potential returns that are tied to the performance of equities. Equity-linked notes are usually structured to return the initial investment with a variable interest portion that depends on the performance of the linked equity. ELNs can be structured in many different ways, but the vanilla version works like a strip bond combined with a call option on a specific security, a basket of securities or an index like the S&P 500 or DJIA. In the case of a note linked to an equity index, the security would typically be called an equity index-linked note.


   Understanding Equity-Linked Notes  

Equity-linked notes provide a way for investors to protect their capital while also getting the potential for an above-average return compared to regular bonds. In theory, the upside potential for returns in an equity-linked note is unlimited, whereas the downside risk is capped. Even in the worst-case scenario, most equity-linked notes offer full principal protection. That is what makes this type of a structured product appealing to risk-averse investors who nevertheless have a bullish outlook on the market. That said, equity-linked notes only pay on maturity, so there is an opportunity cost for locking in that money if only the principal is returned in the end.


   How ELN Work  

In the simplest form, a $1,000 5-year equity-linked note could be structured to use $800 of the fund to buy a 5-year strip bond with a 4.5% yield-to-maturity and then invest and reinvest the other $200 in call options for the S&P 500 over the 5-year life of the note. There is a chance that the options will expire worthless, in which case the investor gets back the $1,000 initially put in. If, however, the options appreciate in value with the S&P 500, those returns are added to the $1,000 that will eventually be returned to the investor.


   Equity Linked Note Caps, Participation Rates, and Leverage  

In practice, an equity-linked note will have a participation rate, which is the percentage amount that the investor in the note participates in the appreciation of the underlying equity. If the participation rate is 100%, then a 5% increase in the underlying is a 5% increase for the eventual payout on the note. However, the cost of structuring the ELN and managing it can lower the participation rate. In the case of a 75% participation rate, for example, a 5% appreciation in the underlying is only worth 3.75% to the investor. 



Equity-linked notes can also use different structures and features. Some will use an averaging formula to smooth out returns on the equity-linked portion or a periodic cap that limits the ELN’s upside by realizing returns at a particular level on a regular basis. There are also types of equity-linked notes that use dynamic hedging instead of options, deploying leverage to increase returns from the underlying equity. Overall, equity-linked notes can be a powerful tool for investors who want to protect their principle while still having the potential upside of an equity investment.
An equity-linked security is a debt instrument with variable payments linked to an equity market benchmark. These securities are an alternative type of fixed-income investment—structured products most often created as bonds. Equity-linked securities are usually used in private market corporate capital financings and are offered to investors to raise corporate capital. As such, they are not traded on financial market exchanges.





Key Takeaways

An equity-linked security is a debt instrument with variable payments linked to an equity market benchmark.They are offered to investors so the issuer can raise capital.These securities are an alternative type of fixed-income investment—structured products most often created as bonds.ELKS normally mature within a one-year period and normally pay higher yields than that of the underlying security.Some kinds of ELKS include corporate, bank-offered, and market-linked.


   What Is an Equity-Linked Security (ELKS)?  

Equity-linked securities resemble both stocks and bonds. So although they may be debt securities, equity-linked securities provide returns that are tied to some form of underlying equity—hence the name. This equity is normally a common stock. This means the returns are linked to the upward and downward movements of the underlying stock.



ELKS normally mature within a one-year period. The yield they pay is normally higher than that of the underlying security. They also make two payouts or distributions to investors before they mature, which is why investors prefer these kinds of investments.






Equity-linked securities normally mature within one year.


   Understanding Equity-Linked Security (ELKS)  

An equity-linked security offering provides corporations with an alternative way to structure interest payments to investors. An issuer can base security interest payments on a range of equity market products including a stock, a group of stocks, or an equity index.



They may also cap or pay a specified portion of the benchmark’s return. A standard equity-linked security structured as a bond would offer variable interest payments tied to an equity benchmark and the return of principal at maturity. ELKS offer a controlled interest rate product for the issuer.


   Types of Equity-Linked Securities  

Investors may be offered the opportunity to invest in ELKS from a few different issuers. They may also find ELKS advertised as market-linked. The following are a few kinds of ELKS that are available on the market.


  Corporate ELKS  

Corporations typically work with investment banks for support to structure equity-linked security offerings for capital financing. The Royal Bank of Canada (RBC) is a leading source of structured finance equity-linked securities. RBC works with companies to structure equity-linked security offerings with various types of provisions.



Retail investors may see equity-linked security offerings from a bank alongside certificates of deposit. An equity-linked security can be any type of investment with interest payments tied to an equity benchmark. US Bank advertises equity-linked CDs as one component of their market-linked CD offering. The interest on the CDs is linked to an equity index. The minimum investment is $4,000.


  Market-Linked Securities  

Securities with payments linked to a market benchmark are offered across the investment industry. A market-linked security can have payments linked to any type of market benchmark. An issuer could structure a market-linked security to make payments based on an equity benchmark. They can also use any other market benchmark such as gold or currency.



For the security issuer, market-linked products offer the opportunity to control the payment to the investor by choosing a specified benchmark. For investors, they can offer an easy alternative to investing in the benchmark itself. An investor in a gold-linked CD would generally seek to earn the same rate of return as gold. Issuers can structure market-linked products in numerous ways. Market-linked products are also known to be illiquid and not tradable or redeemable without penalty during the duration of the investment.




What Are Examples of Equity-Linked Securities?
Some examples of ELKS are corporate ELKS, bank-offered ELKS, and market-linked securities offered through certificates of deposit or other instruments that represent a basket of securities.




How Does an Equity-Linked Note (ELN) Work?
ELNs are purchased at a strike price, which is a discount to the spot price. The ELN issuer delivers the stock to the investor when or if the strike price is reached.




Are Equity-Linked Notes Equity Securities?
Equity-linked notes pay returns linked to the performance of the underlying security, while equity-linked securities pay a fixed interest rate.
What Is an Equity Market?  

An equity market is a market in which shares of companies are issued and traded, either through exchanges or over-the-counter markets. Also known as the stock market, it is one of the most vital areas of a market economy. It gives companies access to capital to grow their business, and investors a piece of ownership in a company with the potential to realize gains in their investment based on the company's future performance. 





Key Takeaways

Equity markets are meeting points for issuers and buyers of stocks in a market economy.Equity markets are a method for companies to raise capital and investors to own a piece of a company.Stocks can be issued in public markets or private markets. Depending on the type of issue, the venue for trading changes.Most equity markets are stock exchanges that can be found around the world, such as the New York Stock Exchange and the Tokyo Stock Exchange.


   Understanding an Equity Market  

Equity markets are the meeting point for buyers and sellers of stocks. The securities traded in the equity market can either be public stocks, which are those listed on the stock exchange, or privately traded stocks. Often, private stocks are traded through dealers, which is the definition of an over-the-counter market.



When companies are born they are private companies, and after a certain time, they go through an initial public offering (IPO), which is a process that turns them into public companies traded on a stock exchange. Private stocks operate slightly differently as they are only offered to employees and certain investors.



Some of the largest equity markets, or stock markets, in the world are the New York Stock Exchange, Nasdaq, Tokyo Stock Exchange, Shanghai Stock Exchange, and Euronext Europe.



Companies list their stocks on an exchange as a way to obtain capital to grow their business. An equity market is a form of equity financing, in which a company gives up a certain percentage of ownership in exchange for capital. That capital is then used for a variety of business needs. Equity financing is the opposite of debt financing, which utilizes loans and other forms of borrowing to obtain capital.


   Trading in an Equity Market  

In the equity market, investors bid for stocks by offering a certain price, and sellers ask for a specific price. When these two prices match, a sale occurs. Often, there are many investors bidding on the same stock. When this occurs, the first investor to place the bid is the first to get the stock. When a buyer will pay any price for the stock, they are buying at market value; similarly, when a seller will take any price for the stock, they are selling at market value.



When a company offers its stock on the market, it means the company is publicly traded, and each stock represents a piece of ownership. This appeals to investors, and when a company does well, its investors are rewarded as the value of their stocks rise.



The risk comes when a company is not doing well, and its stock value may fall. Stocks can be bought and sold easily and quickly, and the activity surrounding a certain stock impacts its value. For example, when there is a high demand to invest in the company, the price of the stock tends to rise, and when many investors want to sell their stocks, the value goes down.


   Stock Exchanges  

Stock exchanges can be either physical places or virtual gathering spots. Nasdaq is an example of a virtual trading post, in which stocks are traded electronically through a network of computers. Electronic trading posts are becoming more common and a preferred method of trading over physical exchanges.



The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) on Wall Street is a famous example of a physical stock exchange; however, there is also the option to trade in online exchanges from that location, so it is technically a hybrid market.



Most large companies have stocks that are listed on multiple stock exchanges throughout the world. However, companies with stocks in the equity market range from large-scale to small, and traders range from big companies to individual investors.



Most buyers and sellers tend to prefer trading at larger exchanges, where there are more options and opportunities than at smaller exchanges. However, in recent years, there has been an uptick in the number of exchanges through third-party markets, which bypass the commission of a stock exchange, but pose a greater risk of adverse selection and don't guarantee the payment or delivery of the stock.


  Physical Exchanges  

In a physical exchange, orders are made in open outcry format, which is reminiscent of depictions of Wall Street in the movies: traders shout and display hand signals across the floor in order to place trades. Physical exchanges are made on the trading floor and filter through a floor broker, who finds the trading post specialist for that stock to put through the order.



Physical exchanges are still very much human environments, although there are a lot of functions performed by computers. Brokers are paid commissions on the stocks they work. This form of trading has become rare and replaced by electronic communication.
What Is the Equity Method?  

The equity method is an accounting technique used by a company to record the profits earned through its investment in another company. With the equity method of accounting, the investor company reports the revenue earned by the other company on its income statement, in an amount proportional to the percentage of its equity investment in the other company.





Key Takeaways

The equity method is used to value a company's investment in another company when it holds significant influence over the company it is investing in.The threshold for "significant influence" is commonly a 20-50% ownership.Under the equity method, the investment is initially recorded at historical cost, and adjustments are made to the value based on the investor's percentage ownership in net income, loss, and dividend payouts.Net income of the investee company increases the investor's asset value on their balance sheet, while the investee's loss or dividend payout decreases it.The investor also records the percentage of the investee's net income or loss on their income statement.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding the Equity Method  

The equity method is the standard technique used when one company, the investor, has a significant influence over another company, the investee. When a company holds approximately 20% to 50% of a company's stock, it is considered to have significant influence. Companies with less than 20% interest in another company may also hold significant influence, in which case they also need to use the equity method.



Significant influence is defined as an ability to exert power over another company. This power includes representation on the board of directors, involvement in policy development, and the interchanging of managerial personnel.


   Recording Revenue and Asset Changes Under the Equity Method  

The equity method acknowledges the substantive economic relationship between two entities. The investor records their share of the investee's earnings as revenue from investment on the income statement. For example, if a firm owns 25% of a company with a $1 million net income, the firm reports earnings from its investment of $250,000 under the equity method.



When the investor has a significant influence over the operating and financial results of the investee, this can directly affect the value of the investor's investment. The investor records their initial investment in the second company's stock as an asset at historical cost. Under the equity method, the investment's value is periodically adjusted to reflect the changes in value due to the investor's share in the company's income or losses. Adjustments are also made when dividends are paid out to shareholders.



Using the equity method, a company reports the carrying value of its investment independent of any fair value change in the market. With a significant influence over another company's operating and financial policies, the investor is basing their investment value on changes in the value of that company's net assets from operating and financial activities and the resulting performances, including earnings and losses.



For example, when the investee company reports a net loss, the investor company records its share of the loss as "loss on investment" on the income statement, which also decreases the carrying value of the investment on the balance sheet.



When the investee company pays a cash dividend, the value of its net assets decreases. Using the equity method, the investor company receiving the dividend records an increase to its cash balance but, meanwhile, reports a decrease in the carrying value of its investment. Other financial activities that affect the value of the investee's net assets should have the same impact on the value of the investor's share of investment. The equity method ensures proper reporting on the business situations for the investor and the investee, given the substantive economic relationship they have.


   Example of the Equity Method  

For example, assume ABC Company purchases 25% of XYZ Corp for $200,000. At the end of year 1, XYZ Corp reports a net income of $50,000 and pays $10,000 in dividends to its shareholders. At the time of purchase, ABC Company records a debit in the amount of $200,000 to "Investment in XYZ Corp" (an asset account) and a credit in the same amount to cash.



At the end of the year, ABC Company records a debit in the amount of $12,500 (25% of XYZ's $50,000 net income) to "Investment in XYZ Corp", and a credit in the same amount to Investment Revenue. In addition, ABC Company also records a debit in the amount of $2,500 (25% of XYZ's $10,000 dividends) to cash, and a credit in the same amount to "Investment in XYZ Corp." The debit to the investment increases the asset value, while the credit to the investment decreases it.



The new balance in the "Investment in XYZ Corp" account is $210,000. The $12,500 Investment Revenue figure will appear on ABC's income statement, and the new $210,000 balance in the investment account will appear on ABC's balance sheet. The net ($197,500) cash paid out during the year ($200,000 purchase - $2,500 dividend received) will appear in the cash flow from / (used in) investing activities section of the cash flow statement.


   Alternative Methods  

When an investor company exercises full control, generally over 50% ownership, over the investee company, it must record its investment in the subsidiary using a consolidation method. All revenue, expenses, assets, and liabilities of the subsidiary would be included in the parent company's financial statements.



On the other hand, when an investor does not exercise full control or have significant influence over the investee, they would need to record their investment using the cost method. In this situation, the investment is recorded on the balance sheet at its historical cost.
What Is the Equity Multiplier?  

The term equity multiplier refers to a risk indicator that measures the portion of a company’s assets that is financed by shareholders' equity rather than by debt. The equity multiplier is calculated by dividing a company's total asset value by the total equity held in the company's stock. A high equity multiplier indicates that a company is using a high amount of debt to finance its assets. A low equity multiplier means that the company has less reliance on debt. The equity multiplier is also known as the leverage ratio or financial leverage ratio and is one of three ratios used in the DuPont analysis.





Key Takeaways

An equity multiplier is a measure of the portion of the company’s assets that is financed by stock rather than debt.A high equity multiplier generally means that a company has a higher level of debt. A lower equity multiplier may indicate that a company is using shareholders' equity to finance its assets or that it cannot attract lenders for a loan. Investors judge a company's equity multiplier in the context of its industry and its peers.The equity multiplier is also known as the financial leverage ratio.












Investopedia / Nez Riaz


   Understanding the Equity Multiplier  

Investing in new and existing assets is key to running a successful business. Companies finance the acquisition of assets by issuing equity or debt. In some cases, they resort to issuing a combination of both. As an investor, you may want to determine how much shareholders' equity is being used to pay for and finance a company's assets. This is where the equity multiplier comes into play.



As noted above, the equity multiplier is a metric that reveals how much of a company's total assets are financed by shareholders' equity. Essentially, this ratio is a risk indicator used by investors to determine a company's position when it comes to leverage.



A company's equity multiplier is only high or low when compared to historical standards, the averages for the industry, or the company's peers:



A high equity multiplier indicates that a company is using a large amount of debt to finance its assets. Companies with a higher debt burden will have higher debt servicing costs, which means that they will have to generate more cash flow to sustain a healthy business.
A low equity multiplier implies that the company has fewer debt-financed assets. That is usually seen as a positive because its debt servicing costs are lower. But it may also send a signal that the company can't entice lenders to loan it money on favorable terms, which is a problem.






Because their assets are generally financed by debt, companies with high equity multipliers may be at risk of default.


   Formula for the Equity Multiplier  
















Equity Multiplier


=



Total Assets


Total Shareholders’ Equity

















where:
















Total Assets


=


Both current and long-term assets
















Total Shareholders’ Equity


=


Total assets


−
















total liabilities







\begin{aligned}&\text{Equity Multiplier} = \frac{ \text{Total Assets} }{ \text{Total Shareholders' Equity} } \\&\textbf{where:} \\&\text{Total Assets} = \text{Both current and long-term assets} \\&\text{Total Shareholders' Equity} = \text{Total assets} - \\&\text{total liabilities} \\\end{aligned}


​Equity Multiplier=Total Shareholders’ EquityTotal Assets​where:Total Assets=Both current and long-term assetsTotal Shareholders’ Equity=Total assets−total liabilities​


   Interpreting the Equity Multiplier  

An equity multiplier of two (2) means that half the company's assets are financed with debt, while the other half is financed with equity.



The equity multiplier is an important factor in DuPont analysis, which is a method of financial assessment devised by the chemical company for its internal financial review. The DuPont model breaks the calculation of return on equity (ROE) into three ratios:



Net profit margin (NPM)
Asset turnover ratio
Equity multiplier



If ROE changes over time or diverges from normal levels for the peer group, the DuPont analysis can indicate how much of this is attributable to the use of financial leverage. If the equity multiplier fluctuates, it can significantly affect ROE.






Higher financial leverage, such as a higher equity multiple, drives ROE upward as long as all other factors remain equal.


   Examples of Equity Multiplier Analysis  

The equity multiplier calculation is straightforward. Consider Apple's (AAPL) balance sheet at the end of the 2021 fiscal year. The company's total assets were $351 billion, and the book value of shareholders' equity was $63 billion. The company's equity multiplier was 5.57x (351 ÷ 63).



Now let's compare Apple to Verizon Communications (VZ). The company has a very different business model than Apple. The company's total assets were $366.6 billion for the fiscal year 2021, with $83.2 billion of shareholders' equity. The equity multiplier was thus 4.41x (366.6 ÷ 83.2) based on these values.



Apple's relatively high equity multiplier indicates that the business relies more heavily on financing from debt and other interest-bearing liabilities. Meanwhile, Verizon's telecommunications business model is similar to utility companies, which have stable, predictable cash flows and typically carry high debt levels. Apple is thus more susceptible to changing economic conditions or evolving industry standards than a utility or a traditional telecommunications firm. As a result, Apple carries more financial leverage.




Is a Higher Equity Multiplier Better?
Average equity multipliers vary from industry to industry. In general, investors look for companies with a low equity multiplier because this indicates the company is using more equity and less debt to finance the purchase of assets. Companies that have higher debt burdens could be financially riskier.




What Is a Good Equity Multiplier?
There is no ideal equity multiplier. It will vary by the sector or industry a company operates within. In general, equity multipliers at or below the industry average are considered better.




What Does an Equity Multiplier of 5 Mean?
An equity multiplier of 5.0x would indicate that the value of its assets is five times larger than its equity. In other words, assets are funded 80% by debt and 20% by equity.




What Affects the Equity Multiplier?
A company's equity multiplier varies if the value of its assets changes, and/or if the level of liabilities changes. If assets increase while liabilities decrease, the equity multiplier becomes smaller. That's because it uses less debt and more shareholders' equity to finance its assets.


   The Bottom Line  

The equity multiplier is a financial ratio that measures how much of a company's assets are financed through stockholders' equity and is calculated by dividing total assets by shareholders' equity.



In general, lower equity multipliers are better for investors, but this can vary between industries and companies with particular industries. In some cases, a low equity multiplier could actually indicate that the company cannot find willing lenders; or it could also signal that a company's growth prospects are low.



On the other hand, a high equity multiplier is not always a sure sign of risk. High leverage can be part of an effective growth strategy, especially if the company is able to borrow more cheaply than its cost of equity.



Correction—Jan. 19, 2023: An earlier version of this article stated that a company's equity multiplier grows larger if its assets increase while its liabilities decrease. This was corrected to show that the reverse is true—that the equity multiplier becomes smaller because it uses less debt to finance its assets.
What Is the Equity Premium Puzzle (EPP)?  

The equity premium puzzle (EPP) refers to the excessively high historical outperformance of stocks over Treasury bills, which is difficult to explain. The equity risk premium, which is usually defined as equity returns minus the return of Treasury bills, is estimated to be between 5% and 8% in the United States. The premium is supposed to reflect the relative risk of stocks compared to "risk-free" government securities. However, the puzzle arises because this unexpectedly large percentage implies an unreasonably high level of risk aversion among investors.





Key Takeaways

The equity premium puzzle (EPP) refers to the excessively high historical outperformance of stocks over Treasury bills, which is difficult to explain.Theoretically, the premium should actually be much lower than the historical average of between 5% and 8%.The prospect theory by Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky, the role of personal debt, the importance of liquidity, the impact of government regulation, and tax considerations have been applied to the puzzle.Previous lack of knowledge, the decline of the U.S. dollar relative to gold, the benefits of diversification, and population growth are all possible solutions to the equity premium puzzle.


   Understanding the Equity Premium Puzzle (EPP)  

The equity premium puzzle (EPP) was first formalized in a study by Rajnish Mehra and Edward C. Prescott in 1985. It remains a mystery to financial academics to this day. Notably, Professor Prescott won the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics in 2004 for his work on business cycles and demonstrating that "society could gain from a prior commitment to economic policy," according to a statement by the prize organization.



Some academics believe the equity risk premium is too large to reflect a "proper" level of compensation that would result from investor risk aversion. Therefore, the premium should actually be much lower than the historical average of between 5% and 8%.



Some of the mystery surrounding the equity premium puzzle involves the variance of the premium over time. Estimates for the first half of the 20th century put the equity risk premium at near 5%. In the second half of that century, the equity premium went up to over 8%. The equity premium for the first half may be lower because the U.S. was still on the gold standard, limiting the impact of inflation on government securities. Many measures of stock market valuation, such as the P/E 10 ratio, also help to explain the different equity premiums. U.S. stock valuations were above average in 1900, relatively low in 1950, and at record highs in 2000.



Since the introduction of the EPP, many academics attempted to solve, or at least partly explain, the equity premium puzzle. The prospect theory by Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky, the role of personal debt, the value of liquidity, the impact of government regulation, and tax considerations have been applied to the puzzle.






Regardless of the explanation, the fact remains that investors have been rewarded handsomely for holding stocks instead of "risk-free" Treasury bills.


   Special Considerations  

Given its variance and status as an anomaly, there are substantial questions about the durability of the equity premium. Perhaps, the real reason for the seemingly excessive equity risk premium is that investors did not realize how much more stocks returned. A large portion of the market's returns come from dividends, which are obscured by media coverage of daily price movements. As people realized the long-term benefits of stock ownership, valuation levels generally trended up. The end result could be lower returns for stocks, which would solve the equity premium puzzle.



The "risk-free" nature and value of Treasury bills is another crucial consideration. Are Treasury bills genuinely risk-free? Of course not. Many governments have inflated their currencies and defaulted on their debts. Even the credibility of the U.S. government varies from one year to the next. Arguably, gold is the risk-free asset. Measured against gold, the equity premium since 1970 is far less impressive. From this point of view, the high equity premium is explained by the decline of the U.S. dollar against gold rather than objectively high returns for stocks.



The aggregation of stocks may also play a part in the equity risk premium puzzle. Individual stocks are far riskier than the stock market as a whole. In many cases, investors were compensated for the higher risk of holding particular stocks rather than overall market risk. The traditional idea was that an investor would directly buy shares in a few companies. Ideas about diversification, mutual funds, and index funds came later. By diversifying, investors can reduce risk without reducing returns, potentially explaining the excessive equity risk premium at the heart of the equity premium puzzle.



Finally, demographics may play a significant role in stock market returns and explaining the equity premium puzzle. Intuitively, businesses need more customers to grow. When the population is rising, the average business automatically gets new customers and grows. During the 20th century, populations in most countries were increasing, which supported business growth and higher stock market returns. Empirically, stock markets in Japan and many European countries performed poorly as their populations started to decline. Perhaps, rising populations created the equity premium puzzle.
What Is Equity Risk Premium?  

The term equity risk premium refers to an excess return that investing in the stock market provides over a risk-free rate. This excess return compensates investors for taking on the relatively higher risk of equity investing. The size of the premium varies and depends on the level of risk in a particular portfolio. It also changes over time as market risk fluctuates.





Key Takeaways

An equity risk premium is an excess return earned by an investor when they invest in the stock market over a risk-free rate.This return compensates investors for taking on the higher risk of equity investing.Determining an equity risk premium is theoretical because there's no way to tell how well equities or the equity market will perform in the future.Calculating an equity risk premium requires using historical rates of return.


   How Equity Risk Premiums Work  

Stocks are generally considered high-risk investments. Investing in the stock market comes with certain risks, but it also has the potential for big rewards. So, as a rule, investors are compensated with higher premiums when they invest in the stock market. Whatever return you earn above a risk-free investment such as a U.S. Treasury bill (T-bill) or a bond is called an equity risk premium.



An equity risk premium is based on the idea of the risk-reward tradeoff. It is a forward-looking figure and, as such, the premium is theoretical. But there's no real way to tell just how much an investor will make since no one can actually say how well equities or the equity market will perform in the future. Instead, an equity risk premium is an estimation as a backward-looking metric. It observes the stock market and government bond performance over a defined period of time and uses that historical performance to the potential for future returns. The estimates vary wildly depending on the time frame and method of calculation.






Because equity risk premiums require the use of historical returns, they aren't an exact science and, therefore, aren't completely accurate.



To calculate the equity risk premium, we can begin with the capital asset pricing model (CAPM), which is usually written as Ra = Rf + βa (Rm - Rf), where:



Ra = expected return on investment in a or an equity investment of some kind
Rf = risk-free rate of return
βa = beta of a
Rm = expected return of the market



So, the equation for equity risk premium is a simple reworking of the CAPM which can be written as: Equity Risk Premium = Ra - Rf = βa (Rm - Rf)



If we are simply talking about the stock market (a = m), then Ra = Rm. The beta coefficient is a measure of a stock's volatility—or risk—versus that of the market. The market's volatility is conventionally set to 1, so if a = m, then βa = βm = 1. Rm - Rf is known as the market premium, and Ra - Rf is the risk premium. If a is an equity investment, then Ra - Rf is the equity risk premium. If a = m, then the market premium and the equity risk premium are the same.



According to some economists, this isn't a generalizable concept even though certain markets in certain time periods may display a considerable equity risk premium. They argue that too much focus on specific cases has made a statistical peculiarity seem like an economic law. Several stock exchanges have gone bust over the years, so a focus on the historically exceptional U.S. market may distort the picture. This focus is known as survivorship bias.



The majority of economists agree, though that the concept of an equity risk premium is valid. Over the long term, markets compensate investors more for taking on the greater risk of investing in stocks. How exactly to calculate this premium is disputed. A survey of academic economists gives an average range of 3% to 3.5% for a one-year horizon, and 5% to 5.5% for a 30-year horizon.﻿﻿ Chief financial officers (CFOs) estimate the premium to be 5.6% over T-bills. The second half of the 20th century saw a relatively high equity risk premium, over 8% by some calculations, versus just under 5% for the first half of the century. Given that the century ended at the height of the dotcom bubble, however, this arbitrary window may not be ideal.


   Special Considerations  

The equation noted above summarizes the theory behind the equity risk premium, but it doesn't account for all possible scenarios. The calculation is fairly straightforward if you plug in historical rates of return and use them to estimate future rates. But how do you estimate the expected rate of return if you want to make a forward-looking statement?



One method is to use dividends to estimate long-term growth, using a reworking of the Gordon Growth Model: k = D / P + g



where:



k = expected return expressed as a percentage (this could be calculated for Ra or Rm)D = dividends per shareP = price per shareg = annual growth in dividends expressed as a percentage



Another is to use growth in earnings, rather than growth in dividends. In this model, the expected return is equal to the earnings yield, the reciprocal of the price-to-earnings ratio (P/E ratio): k = E / P



where:



k = expected return
E = trailing twelve-month earnings per share (EPS)
P = price per share



The drawback of both of these models is that they do not account for valuation. That is, they assume the stocks' prices never correct. Since we can observe stock market booms and busts in the past, this drawback is not insignificant. 



Finally, the risk-free rate of return is usually calculated using U.S. government bonds, since they have a negligible chance of default. This can mean T-bills or T-bonds. To arrive at a real rate of return, that is, adjusted for inflation, it is easiest to use Treasury inflation-protected securities (TIPS), as these already account for inflation. It is also important to note that none of these equations account for tax rates, which can dramatically alter returns.
What Is an Equity Swap?  

An equity swap is an exchange of future cash flows between two parties that allows each party to diversify its income for a specified period of time while still holding its original assets. An equity swap is similar to an interest rate swap, but rather than one leg being the "fixed" side, it is based on the return of an equity index. The two sets of nominally equal cash flows are exchanged as per the terms of the swap, which may involve an equity-based cash flow (such as from a stock asset called the reference equity) that is traded for fixed-income cash flow (such as a benchmark interest rate).





Key Takeaways

An equity swap is similar to an interest rate swap, but rather than one leg being the "fixed" side, it is based on the return of an equity index.These swaps are highly customizable and are traded over-the-counter. Most equity swaps are conducted between large financing firms such as auto financiers, investment banks, and lending institutions.The interest rate leg is often referenced to LIBOR while the equity leg is often referenced to a major stock index such as the S&P 500.



Swaps trade over-the-counter and are very customizable based on what the two parties agree to. Besides diversification and tax benefits, equity swaps allow large institutions to hedge specific assets or positions in their portfolios.



Equity swaps should not be confused with a debt/equity swap, which is a restructuring transaction in which the obligations or debts of a company or individual are exchanged for equity.



Because equity swaps trade OTC, there is counterparty risk involved.


   How an Equity Swap Works  

An equity swap is similar to an interest rate swap, but rather than one leg being the "fixed" side, it is based on the return of an equity index. For example, one party will pay the floating leg (typically linked to LIBOR) and receive the returns on a pre-agreed-upon index of stocks relative to the notional amount of the contract. Equity swaps allow parties to potentially benefit from returns of an equity security or index without the need to own shares, an exchange-traded fund (ETF), or a mutual fund that tracks an index.



Most equity swaps are conducted between large financing firms such as auto financiers, investment banks, and lending institutions. Equity swaps are typically linked to the performance of an equity security or index and include payments linked to fixed rate or floating rate securities. LIBOR rates are a common benchmark for the fixed income portion of equity swaps, which tend to be held at intervals of one year or less, much like commercial paper.






According to an announcement by the Federal Reserve, banks should stop writing contracts using LIBOR by the end of 2021. The Intercontinental Exchange, the authority responsible for LIBOR, will stop publishing one week and two month LIBOR after December 31, 2021. All contracts using LIBOR must be wrapped up by June 30, 2023.﻿﻿



The stream of payments in an equity swap is known as the legs. One leg is the payment stream of the performance of an equity security or equity index (such as the S&P 500) over a specified period, which is based on the specified notional value. The second leg is typically based on the LIBOR, a fixed rate, or another equity's or index's returns.


   Example of an Equity Swap  

Assume a passively managed fund seeks to track the performance of the S&P 500. The asset managers of the fund could enter into an equity swap contract, so it would not have to purchase various securities that track the S&P 500. The firm swaps $25 million at LIBOR plus two basis points with an investment bank that agrees to pay any percentage increase in $25 million invested in the S&P 500 index for one year.



Therefore, in one year, the passively managed fund would owe the interest on $25 million, based on the LIBOR plus two basis points. However, its payment would be offset by $25 million multiplied by the percentage increase in the S&P 500. If the S&P 500 falls over the next year, then the fund would have to pay the investment bank the interest payment and the percentage that the S&P 500 fell multiplied by $25 million. If the S&P 500 rises more than LIBOR plus two basis points, the investment bank owes the passively managed fund the difference.



Since swaps are customizable based on what two parties agree to, there are many potential ways this swap could be restructured. Instead of LIBOR plus two basis points, we could have seen one bp, or instead of the S&P 500, another index could be used.
What Is the Equivalent Annual Annuity Approach?  

The equivalent annual annuity approach is one of two methods used in capital budgeting to compare mutually exclusive projects with unequal lives. The EAA approach calculates the constant annual cash flow generated by a project over its lifespan if it was an annuity. When used to compare projects with unequal lives, an investor should choose the one with the higher EAA.





Key Takeaways

The equivalent annual annuity approach is one of two methods used in capital budgeting to compare mutually exclusive projects with unequal lives.When used to compare projects with unequal lives, an investor should choose the one with the higher equivalent annual annuity.Often, an analyst will use a financial calculator, using the typical present value and future value functions to find the EAA.


   Understanding the Equivalent Annual Annuity Approach (EAA)  

The EAA approach uses a three-step process to compare projects. The present value of the constant annual cash flows is exactly equal to the project's net present value. The first thing an analyst does is calculate each project's NPV over its lifetime. After that, they compute each project's EAA so that the present value of the annuities is exactly equal to the project's NPV. Lastly, the analyst compares each project's EAA and selects the one with the highest EAA.



For example, assume a company with a weighted average cost of capital of 10% is comparing two projects, A and B. Project A has an NPV of $3 million and an estimated life of five years, while Project B has an NPV of $2 million and an estimated life of three years. Using a financial calculator, Project A has an EAA of $791,392.44, and Project B has an EAA of $804,229.61. Under the EAA approach, the company would choose Project B since it has the higher equivalent annual annuity value.


   Special Considerations  
  Calculating the Equivalent Annual Annuity Approach  

Often, an analyst will use a financial calculator, using the typical present value and future value functions to find the EAA. An analyst can use the following formula in a spreadsheet or with a normal non-financial calculator with exactly the same results.



C = (r x NPV) / (1 - (1 + r)-n )



Where:



C = equivalent annuity cash flowNPV = net present valuer = interest rate per periodn = number of periods



For example, consider two projects. One has a seven-year term and an NPV of $100,000. The other has a nine-year term and an NPV of $120,000. Both projects are discounted at a 6 percent rate. The EAA of each project is:



EAA Project one = (0.06 x $100,000) / (1 - (1 + 0.06)-7 ) = $17,914EAA Project two = (0.06 x $120,000) / (1 - (1 + 0.06)-9 ) = $17,643



Project one is the better option.
What Is the Equivalent Annual Cost (EAC)?  

Equivalent annual cost (EAC) is the annual cost of owning, operating, and maintaining an asset over its entire life. Firms often use EAC for capital budgeting decisions, as it allows a company to compare the cost-effectiveness of various assets with unequal lifespans.












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   Understanding the Equivalent Annual Cost (EAC)  

Equivalent annual cost (EAC) is used for a variety of purposes, including capital budgeting. But it is used most often to analyze two or more possible projects with different lifespans, where costs are the most relevant variable.



Other uses of EAC include calculating the optimal life of an asset, determining if leasing or purchasing an asset is the better option, determining the magnitude of which maintenance costs will impact an asset, determining the necessary cost savings to support purchasing a new asset, and determining the cost of keeping existing equipment.



The EAC calculation factors in a discount rate or the cost of capital. Cost of capital is the required return necessary to make a capital budgeting project—such as building a new factory—worthwhile. Cost of capital includes the cost of debt and the cost of equity and is used by companies internally to judge whether a capital project is worth the expenditure of resources.





Key Takeaways

Equivalent annual cost (EAC) is the annual cost of owning, operating, and maintaining an asset over its entire life.EAC is often used by firms for capital budgeting decisions, as it allows a company to compare the cost-effectiveness of various assets that have unequal lifespans.EAC allows managers to compare the net present values of different projects over different periods, to accurately determine the best option.


   The Formula for the Equivalent Annual Cost  

﻿















EAC


=




Asset Price


×


Discount Rate




1


−


(


1


+


Discount Rate



)



−


n




















where:
















Discount Rate


=


Return required to make project
















worthwhile
















n


=


Number of periods








\begin{aligned} &\text{EAC} = \frac{ \text{Asset Price} \times \text{Discount Rate} }{ 1 - ( 1 + \text{Discount Rate})^{-n} } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{Discount Rate} = \text{Return required to make project} \\ &\text{worthwhile} \\ &n = \text{Number of periods} \\ \end{aligned}


​EAC=1−(1+Discount Rate)−nAsset Price×Discount Rate​where:Discount Rate=Return required to make projectworthwhilen=Number of periods​﻿


   How to Calculate the Equivalent Annual Cost  

Take the asset price or cost and multiply it by the discount rate.
The discount rate is also called the cost of capital, which is the required return necessary to make a capital budgeting project, such as building a new factory, worthwhile.
In the denominator add 1 + the discount rate and raise the result as an exponent to the number of years for the project. Subtract the result by 1 and divide the numerator figure by the denominator.
Many financial online calculators are available to calculate EAC.


   Example of the Equivalent Annual Cost  

As stated earlier, EAC allows managers to compare NPVs of different projects over different periods, to accurately determine the best option. Consider two alternative investments in machinery equipment:



1. Machine A has the following:



An initial capital outlay of $105,000An expected lifespan of three yearsAn annual maintenance expense of $11,000



2. Machine B has the following:



An initial capital outlay of $175,000An expected lifespan of five yearsAn annual maintenance expense of $8,500



The cost of capital for the company making the decision is thus 5%.



Next, we calculate the EAC, which is equal to the net present value (NPV) divided by the present value annuity factor or A(t,r), while taking into account the cost of capital or r, and the number of years in question or t.



The annuity factor is calculated as follows:



﻿















Annuity Factor


=




1


−




1




(


1


+


r



)


t







r


















where:
















r


=


Cost of capital
















t


=


Number of periods








\begin{aligned} &\text{Annuity Factor} = \frac{ 1 - \frac{ 1 }{ ( 1 + r ) ^ t} }{ r } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &r = \text{Cost of capital} \\ &t = \text{Number of periods} \\ \end{aligned}


​Annuity Factor=r1−(1+r)t1​​where:r=Cost of capitalt=Number of periods​﻿



Using the formula above, the annuity factor or A(t,r) of each project must be calculated. These calculations would be as follows:



﻿















Machine A, A(t, r)


=




1


−




1




(


1


+


.


0


5



)


3







.


0


5




=


2


.


7


2








\begin{aligned} &\text{Machine A, A(t, r)} = \frac{ 1 - \frac{ 1 }{ ( 1 + .05) ^ 3 } }{ .05 } = 2.72 \\ \end{aligned}


​Machine A, A(t, r)=.051−(1+.05)31​​=2.72​﻿



﻿















Machine B, A(t, r)


=




1


−




1




(


1


+


.


0


5



)


5







.


0


5




=


4


.


3


3








\begin{aligned} &\text{Machine B, A(t, r)} = \frac{ 1 - \frac{ 1 }{ ( 1 + .05) ^ 5 } }{ .05 } = 4.33 \\ \end{aligned}


​Machine B, A(t, r)=.051−(1+.05)51​​=4.33​﻿



Next, the initial costs must be divided by the annuity factor or A(t,r) while adding in the annual maintenance cost. The calculation for EAC is:



﻿















EAC Machine A


=




$


1


0


5


,


0


0


0




2


.


7


2




+


$


1


1


,


0


0


0


=


$


4


9


,


5


5


7








\begin{aligned} &\text{EAC Machine A} = \frac{ \$105,000 }{ 2.72 } + \$11,000 = \$49,557 \\ \end{aligned}


​EAC Machine A=2.72$105,000​+$11,000=$49,557​﻿



﻿















EAC Machine B


=




$


1


7


5


,


0


0


0




4


.


3


3




+


$


8


,


5


0


0


=


$


4


8


,


9


2


1








\begin{aligned} &\text{EAC Machine B} = \frac{ \$175,000 }{ 4.33 } + \$8,500 = \$48,921 \\ \end{aligned}


​EAC Machine B=4.33$175,000​+$8,500=$48,921​﻿



By standardizing the annual cost, a manager in charge of a capital budgeting decision where cost is the only issue would select Machine B because it has an EAC that is $636 lower than Machine A.


   The Difference Between the Equivalent Annual Cost and the Whole-life Cost  

Whole-life cost is the total expense of owning an asset over its entire life, from purchase to disposal, as determined by financial analysis. It is also known as a "life-cycle" cost, which includes purchase and installation, design and building costs, operating costs, maintenance, associated financing costs, depreciation, and disposal costs.



Whole-life cost also takes into account certain costs that are usually overlooked, such as those related to environmental and social impact factors.



The equivalent annual cost (EAC) is the annual cost of owning, operating, and maintaining an asset over its entire life while the whole life cost is the total cost of the asset over its entire life.


   Limitations of Using the Equivalent Annual Cost  

A limitation with EAC, as with many capital budgeting decisions, is that the discount rate or cost of capital must be estimated for each project. Unfortunately, the forecast can turn out to be inaccurate, or variables can change over the life of the project or life of the asset that's be considered.
What Is Erosion?  

Erosion can include any negative impact on a company’s associated assets or funds. Erosion can be experienced with regard to profits, sales, or tangible assets, such as manufacturing equipment. Erosion is often considered a general risk factor within an organization’s cash management system, as the losses may be slow and occurring over time.



Erosion can also occur with certain financial assets, such as options contracts or warrants that decline in value as time passes—known as time decay.





Key Takeaways

Erosion generally applies to longer-term downward trends in a company’s business; short-term losses are usually not considered erosion.Profit erosion can happen when profits are redirected elsewhere in a business or costs rise.Unexpected asset erosion, for example, due to technical innovation, can lower the perceived value—or book value—of a business.Sales erosion happens when there are long-term declines in sales, perhaps due to new competition or price undercutting. 


   Understanding the Types of Erosion  

Erosion most often applies to longer-term downward trends, especially those that seem to be accelerating. In other words, erosion implies a permanent change in business conditions. Short-term losses are not categorized as erosion but listed as one-time charges or nonrecurrent losses. Standard anticipated depreciation, or the cyclical nature of certain product sales, are often considered a normal part of business functions. These are more likely to be referred to as downward trends.


  Profit Erosion  

Profit erosion can refer to the gradual redirection of funds from profitable segments or projects within a business to new projects and areas. Although managers almost always consider money flowing into new projects as investments in long-term growth, the short-term effect is a slow erosion of cash flow. Cash flow is the amount of cash that flows in and out of a company as a result of its day-to-day business operations.



The risk involved in profit erosion is usually reflected in the company’s profit margins, as the monies are used to fund areas that may or may not be profitable in the future. Profit margin is the percentage of sales that has generated profits.



Additionally, profit erosion can occur even when sales numbers are comparable to previous levels. This can occur when the cost of producing a particular product rises, possibly due to increases in the costs of materials or labor, but the sales price of the product is not raised to compensate.


  Asset Erosion  

Certain assets lose value over time; a process often referred to as depreciation. Though much asset depreciation is accounted for within the business’s figures, unexpected asset erosion can still occur. These losses can materialize due to the general use of equipment or technological advances that make the current assets less valuable or obsolete.



Asset erosion can lower the perceived value of the business as a whole, as it lowers the book value of the assets associated with the company. Intangible assets such as patents or trademarks, which have an expiration date, also have their value eroded over time, especially as that date nears. For pharmaceuticals companies, generic producers entering the market can lead to erosion of their offerings and be a real issue of concern. Amortization is the regular accounting process whereby intangible assets' values are reduced over time.



Options contracts are derivatives, meaning their value is determined by an underlying asset. Options on stocks that have been issued to company managers or employees can erode in value over time. Options contracts typically come with an expiration date, where the rights embedded in those contracts must be exercised prior to expiration. As the expiration date approaches, the time-value in those contracts erodes in a process known as time decay. In other words, as time passes, there's less chance to earn a profit from the option–if it's not already profitable. As a result, the value of options decreases or erodes over time.



Employee stock options have become a large balance sheet item for many large companies, and so this form of value loss is important in analyzing financial statements.


  Sales Erosion  

Sales erosion refers to the process of steady, long-term declines in overall sales numbers. These differ from temporary sales declines because these losses are often considered fairly widespread, possibly qualifying as a long-term trend within the business’s activities.



Sales erosion can be experienced due to a number of factors, including new entries into that particular product’s market, or price undercutting on behalf of the competition. Technology advances in the field can also lead to sales erosion if newer product developments make the current company offering seem obsolete.
What Is an Error Term?  

An error term is a residual variable produced by a statistical or mathematical model, which is created when the model does not fully represent the actual relationship between the independent variables and the dependent variables. As a result of this incomplete relationship, the error term is the amount at which the equation may differ during empirical analysis.



The error term is also known as the residual, disturbance, or remainder term, and is variously represented in models by the letters e, ε, or u.





Key Takeaways

An error term appears in a statistical model, like a regression model, to indicate the uncertainty in the model.The error term is a residual variable that accounts for a lack of perfect goodness of fit.Heteroskedastic refers to a condition in which the variance of the residual term, or error term, in a regression model varies widely.


   Understanding an Error Term  

An error term represents the margin of error within a statistical model; it refers to the sum of the deviations within the regression line, which provides an explanation for the difference between the theoretical value of the model and the actual observed results. The regression line is used as a point of analysis when attempting to determine the correlation between one independent variable and one dependent variable.


   Error Term Use in a Formula  

An error term essentially means that the model is not completely accurate and results in differing results during real-world applications. For example, assume there is a multiple linear regression function that takes the following form: 



﻿















Y


=


α


X


+


β


ρ


+


ϵ
















where:
















α


,


β


=


Constant parameters
















X


,


ρ


=


Independent variables
















ϵ


=


Error term








\begin{aligned} &Y = \alpha X + \beta \rho + \epsilon \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\alpha, \beta = \text{Constant parameters} \\ &X, \rho = \text{Independent variables} \\ &\epsilon = \text{Error term} \\ \end{aligned}


​Y=αX+βρ+ϵwhere:α,β=Constant parametersX,ρ=Independent variablesϵ=Error term​﻿



When the actual Y differs from the expected or predicted Y in the model during an empirical test, then the error term does not equal 0, which means there are other factors that influence Y.


   What Do Error Terms Tell Us?  

Within a linear regression model tracking a stock’s price over time, the error term is the difference between the expected price at a particular time and the price that was actually observed. In instances where the price is exactly what was anticipated at a particular time, the price will fall on the trend line and the error term will be zero.



Points that do not fall directly on the trend line exhibit the fact that the dependent variable, in this case, the price, is influenced by more than just the independent variable, representing the passage of time. The error term stands for any influence being exerted on the price variable, such as changes in market sentiment.



The two data points with the greatest distance from the trend line should be an equal distance from the trend line, representing the largest margin of error.



If a model is heteroskedastic, a common problem in interpreting statistical models correctly, it refers to a condition in which the variance of the error term in a regression model varies widely.


   Linear Regression, Error Term, and Stock Analysis  

Linear regression is a form of analysis that relates to current trends experienced by a particular security or index by providing a relationship between a dependent and independent variables, such as the price of a security and the passage of time, resulting in a trend line that can be used as a predictive model.



A linear regression exhibits less delay than that experienced with a moving average, as the line is fit to the data points instead of based on the averages within the data. This allows the line to change more quickly and dramatically than a line based on numerical averaging of the available data points.


   The Difference Between Error Terms and Residuals  

Although the error term and residual are often used synonymously, there is an important formal difference. An error term is generally unobservable and a residual is observable and calculable, making it much easier to quantify and visualize. In effect, while an error term represents the way observed data differs from the actual population, a residual represents the way observed data differs from sample population data.
What Is Errors and Omissions (E&O) Insurance?  

Errors and omissions (E&O) insurance is a type of professional liability insurance that protects companies, their workers, and other professionals against claims of inadequate work or negligent actions.





Key Takeaways

Errors and omissions insurance is a form of professional liability insurance.E&O insurance protects companies and professionals against claims of inadequate work or negligent actions made by clients.Anyone who provides a service requires E&O insurance including financial services, insurance agents, doctors, lawyers, and wedding planners.E&O insurance does not cover criminal activity. It also does not cover many other forms of damage that are traditionally covered by different forms of insurance.E&O insurance costs will vary based on industry and projected risk; most companies can obtain coverage for less than $1,000 per year.












Investopedia / Matthew Collins


   Understanding Errors and Omissions (E&O) Insurance  

Errors and omissions insurance is a form of liability insurance. It protects companies against the full costs of a claim made by a client against a professional who provides advice or a service such as a consultant, financial advisor, insurance agent, or lawyer. It is a common form of business insurance that protects an entity should someone accuse that company of making a mistake.



Companies often obtain E&O insurance if they provide services to a customer for a fee. This form of insurance can be obtained from many major commercial insurers. Companies run out of a home-based office must buy a separate policy; the company can't get errors and omissions insurance under a homeowner's policy.


   What E&O Insurance Covers  

The benefits E&O insurance gives companies or individuals vary greatly depending on the policy and issuing insurance company. Broadly speaking, E&O insurance covers:



Errors, mistakes, or oversights incurred during the course of work.
Failure to meet a deadline or deliver a specific service promised to a customer.
Professional negligence.
Failure to meet a specific standard of care, especially if outlined by a given profession.
Breach of contract.



Regarding specific expenses, E&O may cover legal and court costs should a company find itself in court. Attorney and other legal fees are often covered whether or not the company is found to be guilty of the matter at hand. E&O may cover specific types of settlements of judgements in which the company is found at fault. It also covers damages and expenses incurred to others for wrongdoing.






Some E&O policies are not geographically bound and may still cover work performed outside of the company's primary country of operation. Check to see whether an international professional policy would be a better fit for your business.


   What E&O Insurance Does Not Cover  

These policies do not cover criminal prosecution and certain liabilities that may arise in civil court not listed in the policy. This includes illegal acts, intentional deeds of wrongdoing, or criminal activity. E&O insurance often does not cover bodily injury inflicted by your business as that is typically covered by general liability insurance.



E&O insurance may or may not cover temporary employees, claims stemming from work done before the policy was in force, or claims in various jurisdictions. It may also not cover information leaks due to cybercrime, employee injuries, or discrimination claims. These last three situations are covered by different types of insurance.


   Who Needs E&O Insurance  

Errors and omissions insurance often covers both court costs and any settlements up to the amount specified by the insurance contract. This kind of liability insurance is generally required for professional advice-giving or service-providing businesses. Without E&O insurance, a company can be held liable for up to millions in damages plus the fees associated with a legal team.



Insurance brokers, insurance dealers, realtors, registered investment advisors, financial planners, and other financial professionals can obtain E&O insurance. Regulatory bodies, such as insurance regulators, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), or even a company's investors will often require E&O insurance.



E&O insurance is also applicable to businesses outside the financial industry including nonprofits, general maintenance companies and contractors, and engineering firms. Any other company or professional who provides a service, such as wedding planners and printers, also needs E&O insurance. Doctors, dentists, and other medical professionals also take out E&O insurance called malpractice insurance.



For example, a client may sue an advisor or broker after an investment goes sour, even if the risks were well-known and within the guidelines established by the client. Even if a court or arbitration panel decides in favor of a broker or investment advisor, the legal fees can be very high, which is why E&O insurance is important.


   E&O Insurance Cost  

The cost of a policy depends on a number of factors including the kind of business covered, its location, and any previous claims that have been paid out in the past. A person or company with numerous litigation problems has a higher underwriting risk and is likely to find E&O insurance more expensive or less favorable in its terms as a result. On average, E&O insurance can run around $500 - $1,000 per employee, per year.






Companies can often obtain an E&O policy quote in minutes.


   Example of E&O Insurance  

Let's say a company that hosts servers used by third parties for data purposes is breached by hackers who gain access to proprietary information and client data. The companies affected by the hack then sue the server-hosting company for damages for inadequate security.



The server-hosting company has an E&O insurance policy and reviews it to see what the policy does and does not cover. To the company's benefit, its errors and omissions policy is robust and covers such situations. The insurance company pays for the legal expenses involved in the court case against multiple companies. It also pays for any monetary damages rendered by the courts or settled in arbitration.



Having errors and omissions coverage helps the company avoid a substantial financial hit—even bankruptcy—depending on the company's finances. If you or your employees are in the business of providing professional advice or other professional services, E&O insurance could be worth your consideration.




Who Needs Errors and Omissions (E&O) Insurance?
Professionals working in financial industries such as insurance, investments, real estate, and accounting will benefit from E&O insurance to cover them in the event of a mistake or omission made on behalf of a client, which can be costly. Many regulatory bodies mandate employees in these professions to obtain E&O coverage through their employer or independently.




Why Is Errors and Omissions Insurance Important?
A client can sue a financial professional if they incur a loss due to an error or omission made during an application process, consultation, or investment decision. E&O insurance covers legal fees and any damages awarded to the client if they are owed.




Is E&O Insurance Expensive?
E&O costs will depend on a variety of factors, including the nature of the business, size of the company, and claims history, On average, E&O can cost between $500 and $1,000 per employee for a given year.




Is E&O Insurance the Same as Liability Insurance?
E&O insurance is the same product as professional liability insurance. However, E&O insurance is different from general liability insurance. E&O is coverage specific to mistakes performed specific to the operations of a business, while general liability insurance is more suited towards coverage for a company involving claims for bodily injuries or damages inflicted by the company's products.


   The Bottom Line  

E&O insurance is a form of coverage for a company regard mistakes performed during the course of business. When a company legitimately fails to meet a deadline, make a material omission, make a professional oversight, or incur professional negligence, the injured party may make a claim against the company. In these situations, the company may have insurance coverage to pay legal and damage expenses.
What Is Escheat?  

Escheat is the right of a government to take ownership of estate assets or unclaimed property in the event there are no heirs or beneficiaries. Escheat rights can also be granted when assets are unclaimed for a prolonged period. These situations can also be referred to as bona vacantia or simply unclaimed property.



The concept of escheat maintains that property always has a recognized owner, which would be the state or federal governments if no other claimants to ownership exist or are readily identified. In the U.S., each state jurisdiction has its own laws and regulations governing escheat rights and related matters.





Key Takeaways

Escheat refers to the right of a government to take ownership of estate assets or unclaimed property.Each state in the U.S. has rules and regulations for granting escheat rights.Escheat rights are often determined through probate or other types of court proceedings.Most states have standard procedures for automatically transferring dormant account assets after a specified period.


   Understanding Escheat  

Escheat is a government’s right to property if it is unclaimed for any reason after some time. Escheat rights can be granted by a court of law or given following a standard period. In the case of death with no will or heirs, escheat rights may be granted to a state in a probate decision.



Each state in the U.S. has rules and regulations governing escheat rights. Often, property that has been escheated may later be reclaimed. Some states may incorporate a statute of limitations, which creates an expiration date after which reclaiming property is no longer allowed.



Escheatment is the process of transferring assets to the state. Escheat rights are often revocable—reclamation rights can extend into perpetuity if no statute of limitations exists. This means that ownership of an estate or property assets could revert to a lawful heir or owner should one turn up.



U.S. states also have processes and procedures for granting escheat rights when property has been unclaimed for a prolonged period. These processes vary by the type of asset, and usually by state.



Some of the accounts that can become escheated are:



Checking accountsBrokerage accountsRetirement accountsAnnuity contracts and accountsPension accountsSavings accounts


   Escheat and Death  

In the case of death, estate assets with no will are considered intestate. All deaths and death wishes usually go through a probate court for final determination. Intestate deaths also go through probate, which involves researching heirs who may be given property assets. Heirs eligible for inheriting assets intestate may include spouses, siblings, aunts, uncles, nieces, nephews, cousins, and potentially other distant relatives.



If a probate court finds no heirs for unclaimed assets in death, then a judge would grant escheat rights to the state. Escheat may also occur if a will or trust is deemed defective and legal heirs to an estate cannot be readily identified. Generally, identifying heirs in most intestate deaths foregoes the need for escheatment. However, escheat can also kick in if an individual's legal heirs are deemed incompetent to manage the inheritance, and no other rightful heirs can be identified.






If a rightful heir comes forward after escheat rights have been granted, property can be given to such heirs as outlined by laws. Laws vary widely from state to state and may include a statute of limitations that can make asset rights irrevocable.


   Escheatment of Unclaimed Assets  

Escheat rights can be granted to the government for different types of assets. Assets may include real estate or bank deposits and unclaimed securities in accounts that have been dormant for a prolonged period.



Financial institutions and brokerages keep records of inactivity, labeling inactive accounts dormant after a specified period. Financial institutions keep records of dormant accounts. These accounts are usually required to be turned over to the government after a specified period, typically determined by each state.



By law, financial institutions with dormant accounts are usually required to make efforts—such as sending reminders and issuing notices—to locate the owners of these assets before finally transferring them to the state through escheatment.



Each state determines the time frame for granting escheat rights to the government and the process for doing so. For financial accounts, escheatment often occurs automatically after a specified amount of time has elapsed. This table shows each state's escheatment timing for bank accounts, checks, and earnings.











 State
Bank Account 
Checks/Drafts 
Earnings 




Alabama
3 years
3 years
1 year


Alaska 
5 years
5 years
1 year


Arizona 
3 years
3 years
1 year


Arkansas 
3 years
3 years
1 year


California 
3 years
3 years
1 year


Colorado 
5 years
5 years
1 year


Connecticut 
3 years
3 years
1 year


Delaware 
5 years
5 years
5 years


District of Columbia 
3 years
3 years
1 year


Florida
5 years
5 years
1 year


Georgia 
5 years
5 years
1 year


Hawaii 
5 years
5 years
1 year


Idaho 
5 years
5 years
1 year


Illinois 
3 years
3 years
1 year


Indiana 
3 years
3 years
1 year


Iowa 
3 years
3 years
1 year


Kansas 
5 years
5 years
1 year


Kentucky 
3 years
3 years
1 year


Louisiana 
5 years
5 years
1 year


Maine 
3 years
3 years
1 year


Maryland
3 years
3 years
3 years


Massachusetts 
3 years
3 years
3 years


Michigan 
3 years
3 years
1 year


Minnesota
3 years
3 years
1 year


Mississippi 
3 years
5 years
5 years


Missouri 
5 years
5 years
3 years


Montana 
5 years
5 years
1 year


Nebraska 
5 years
5 years
1 year


Nevada 
3 years
3 years
1 year


New Hampshire
5 years
5 years
1 year


New Jersey 
3 years
3 years
1 year


New Mexico 
5 years
5 years
1 year


New York 
3 years
3 years
1 year


North Carolina 
5 years
5 or 7 years
1 year


North Dakota 
5 years
2 years
2 years


Ohio 
5 years
5 years
1 year


Oklahoma 
5 years
5 years
1 year


Oregon 
3 years
3 years
3 years


Pennsylvania 
3 years
3 years
2 years


Rhode Island 
3 years
3 years
1 year


South Carolina 
5 years
5 years
1 year


South Dakota 
3 years
3 years
1 year


Tennessee 
3 years
3 years
1 year


Texas 
3 years
3 years
1 year


Utah 
3 years
3 years
1 year


Vermont 
3 years
3 years
1 year


Virginia
5 years
5 years
1 year


Washington 
3 years
3 years
1 year


West Virginia 
5 or 7 years
5 years
1 year


Wisconsin 
5 years
5 years
1 year


Wyoming 
5 years
5 years
1 year





   Escheat Reclamation  

Some states maintain online registries of unclaimed assets and dormant accounts, and register with the National Association of Unclaimed Property Administration. You can find unclaimed property on it's website.



However, these efforts are ultimately subject to state law, and states can institute a statute of limitations that restricts claims after a specified period. Statutes of limitation usually help protect states that sell assets or spend funds for their own use, making these assets less recoverable.




What Does It Mean When an Account Is Escheat?
An account is in escheat when there are no identifiable heirs to an account, or no one claims it. The government then takes ownership of the account. If a legal owner is identified, it can be reclaimed.




What Does Escheat Mean in Law?
Escheat is the right of a government to take ownership of an account if no one claims it or has a claim to it after the owner's death.




What Is Escheat Example?
Imagine you had assets in a brokerage account and didn't name beneficiaries, had no will, and no relatives that it could pass to by laws in your state. If you died and no one else claimed it, ownership of the account would be passed to the government.


   The Bottom Line  

Escheatment is the right of a government to take ownership of an account or property when there is no apparent beneficiary, heir, or other entity that has a claim to it. The account or property can be reclaimed if someone emerges with a legal claim, but reclamation is generally subject to a statute of limitations.
What Is Escrow?  

Escrow is a legal concept describing a financial agreement whereby an asset or money is held by a third party on behalf of two other parties that are in the process of completing a transaction.



Escrow accounts are managed by the escrow agent. The agent releases the assets or funds only upon the fulfillment of predetermined contractual obligations (or upon receiving appropriate instructions). Money, securities, funds, and other assets can all be held in escrow.





Key Takeaways

Escrow refers to a neutral third party holding assets or funds before they are transferred from one party in a transaction to another.The third party holds the funds until both buyer and seller have fulfilled their contractual requirements.Escrow is associated with real estate transactions but it can apply to any situation where funds will pass from one party to another.Escrow can be used when purchasing a home and for the life of a mortgage.Online escrow has been on the rise as a way to offer secure online transactions for expensive items, such as art or jewelry.


   Understanding Escrow  

Escrow is a financial process used when two parties take part in a transaction and there is uncertainty about the fulfillment of their obligations. Situations that may use escrow can involve internet transactions, banking, intellectual property, real estate, mergers and acquisitions, law, and more.



Consider a company that is selling goods internationally. That company requires assurance that it will receive payment when the goods reach their destination. The buyer, for their part, is prepared to pay for the goods only if they arrive in good condition.



The buyer can place the funds in escrow with an agent with instructions to disburse them to the seller once the goods arrive in a suitable state. This way, both parties are protected and the transaction can proceed.






For real estate, there are two escrow accounts. The first is used when you’re buying a home. The second is used during the life of the mortgage.


   Types of Escrow  
  Escrow and Real Estate  

Escrow accounts can apply to real estate transactions. Placing the funds in escrow with a third party allows the buyer to make a good faith deposit or perform due diligence on a potential property acquisition. Escrow accounts also assure the seller that the buyer is serious about the purchase.



For example, an escrow account can be used for the sale of a house. If there are conditions attached to the sale, such as the passing of an inspection, the buyer and seller may agree to use escrow.



In this case, the buyer of the property deposits the payment for the house in an escrow account held by a third party. The seller can proceed with, e.g., house inspections, confident that the funds are on deposit and the buyer is capable of making payment. The amount in escrow is then transferred to the seller once all the conditions for the sale are satisfied.



Escrow can also refer to an escrow account that is set up at the time of mortgage closing. In this instance, the escrow account contains future homeowners insurance and property tax payments.



A portion of the monthly mortgage payment is deposited into the escrow account to cover these payments. Thus, borrowers that set up an escrow account, if required by the lender (or at their own discretion) will have higher payments than those who do not. However, they will not have to worry about paying the yearly premiums or property tax bills as they're already paying portions of them monthly into their escrow account.


  Escrow and the Stock Market  

Stocks are often issued in escrow. In this case, while the shareholder is the real owner of the stock, the shareholder has limited rights when it comes to the disposal of the stock.



For example, executives who receive stock as a bonus to their compensation often must wait for an escrow period to pass before they can sell the stock. Stock bonuses are often used to attract or retain top executives.


  Escrow and Online Sales  

Online escrow, like real estate and stock market escrow, protects the buyer and seller from fraud or nonpayment. An online escrow service acts as the third party for online product sales. Buyers send their payments to the escrow service, which holds the money until the product is received. 



Once the product is delivered and verified, the online escrow service releases the funds to the seller. Escrow services are best suited for high-value items, such as jewelry or art. The online escrow company charges a fee for the service.






You can request an escrow account yourself for the tax and insurance payments on your house, even if your lender doesn't require it. Escrow can help a home owner be sure that money needed for property taxes and insurance will be available when payment is due. In other words, instead of having to come up with a large lump sum, the homeowner can make smaller monthly deposits in an escrow account, which will be disbursed by the agent at the appropriate times.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Escrow  

For a fee, escrow can provide parties to transactions that involve large amounts of money an assurance of security.



Escrow accounts for mortgages can help protect the borrower and lender from potentially late payments for property taxes and homeowners insurance. These monthly amounts are usually estimated. You can overpay (or underpay) into your escrow account, which may require an adjustment when it comes time for the servicer to make the payments.



The convenience of monthly escrow payments requires a higher monthly payment compared to paying just principal and interest.





Pros

Provides protection during transactions, notably for real estate involving sizable amounts of money
Allows for monthly payments toward insurance and taxes (instead of a large lump sum)
Beneficial for both the buyer and seller when big-ticket items are involved



Cons

Higher mortgage payments (if escrow is used for taxes and insurance)
Estimates might be incorrect for tax due
Online escrow service fees might be higher than those on other platforms, such as PayPal





   Example of Escrow  

Homebuyers often use escrow twice. First, as earnest money and then, at closing. Say that John wants to buy a home. He finds a house and decides to make an offer. The offer is accepted and he must put earnest money of $5,000 into escrow.



The money put in escrow shows the seller that John is seriously interested in buying the property. In return, the seller takes the property off the market and finalizes repairs, etc. All goes well and at the time of the purchase the escrow money is transferred to the seller and the purchase price is reduced by $5,000.



At the closing, John agrees to set up an escrow account with the lender to pay property taxes and homeowners insurance. John’s monthly payments look like this: 



$1,000 for principal and interest$100 for homeowners insurance$300 for property taxes Total monthly mortgage payment of $1,400



Then, when the yearly taxes and insurance payments are due, the lender makes them using money in the escrow account. Some lenders require an escrow account to ensure that both of these are paid on time. If taxes go unpaid, the tax authority could place a lien on the property, which is not in the best interest of the lender.




What Is the Escrow of a House?
Escrow relating to buying a house is an account (called the escrow account) in which money from the potential homebuyer is deposited. Required escrow is generally 1% to 2% of the asking price for a home. The money is required to ensure the buyer is seriously considering the home and has the funds to make the purchase. In return, the seller will usually take the property off the market and allow the potential buyer access to the home for inspections.




How Does Escrow Work?
Escrow required by mortgage lenders involves making monthly payments for property taxes and homeowners insurance into an escrow account held by a third party. If escrow is required by the lender (or requested by the borrower), the monthly payment will include principal and interest for the loan, as well as amounts for property taxes and homeowners insurance. The lender will keep the amounts for taxes and insurance in the escrow account. Then, when the bills come due, they will make the appropriate payments.




What Does Escrow Mean in Mortgage?
Escrow relating to mortgages involves property tax and insurance payments. This escrow account can last for the length of a mortgage loan. Lenders don't always require escrow. However, if you are required to set up an escrow account, many lenders will consider a written request to end escrow after you've made, typically, a year of on-time mortgage payments and your loan-to-value is generally 80% or lower.




Is Escrow Good or Bad?
Escrow is generally considered good, as it protects the buyer and seller in a transaction. In addition, escrow as part of mortgage payments is generally good for the lender and helps the buyer by ensuring property taxes and homeowners insurance are paid on time.




What Is an Escrow Disbursement?
An escrow disbursement is a payment made from an escrow account. With real estate, it's made by the lender on behalf of a borrower to cover property taxes and homeowners insurance.


   The Bottom Line  

Escrow can be used for various transactions, including real estate, stock issuances, and online sales. Money from the buyer is held in an escrow account until the transaction is complete, or the buyer is able to receive or verify the condition of the product.



Once the buyer approves the transaction, the money is released to the seller from the escrow account. The company managing the escrow account generally takes a fee for performing the third-party service.
What Is an Escrow Agent?  

An escrow agent is a person or entity that holds property in trust for third parties while a transaction is finalized or a disagreement is resolved. The role of escrow agent is often played by an attorney (or notary in civil law jurisdictions). The escrow agent has a fiduciary responsibility to both parties of the escrow agreement.





key takeaways

An escrow agent is a third party, a person or entity, which holds an asset or funds before they are transferred from one party to another.The escrow agent holds the funds or the asset until both parties have fulfilled their contractual requirements.Escrow agents are often associated with real estate transactions, but they can be used in any situation where funds will pass from one party to another.


   Escrow Agent Explained  

An escrow agent essentially serves as a neutral middleman in the context of an escrow agreement. An escrow agreement is a contract between two parties whereby each agrees that a third party should hold an asset on their behalf until their transaction is completed. The funds or assets are held by the escrow agent until it receives the appropriate instructions or until predetermined contractual obligations have been fulfilled. Money, securities, funds, and titles to real estate can all be held in escrow.


   Escrow Agent vs. Trustee  

There are similarities between the role of a trustee and the role of an escrow agent, but there are significant differences as well. The two roles are similar in that in each case a third party holds property "in trust" for someone else and has a fiduciary duty. However, a trustee has a duty toward the beneficiary (or beneficiaries) of the trust and must act in their best interest. In contrast, an escrow agent's duty is toward both parties of a transaction, and they are tightly bound by the terms of the escrow agreement.


   Escrow Agent in Real Estate Transactions  

Escrow agents are typically associated with selling or buying a home or other real estate. In some jurisdictions, including the United States, they may be referred to as title agents. In these cases, the escrow agent secures the property and examines documents to make sure the terms of the sale are met on each end, thus serving both the buyer and seller in the transaction.



When it comes to buying and selling a home, an escrow agent may be a title company. In such cases, the title company holds the deed to the property in escrow until all of the terms of both the buyer and seller are met. The buyer may deposit the money for the purchase, or at least the down payment, with the escrow agent, which serves to validate the transaction and reassure the seller until last-minute closing terms are met. The amount in escrow is then transferred to the seller, and the property deed to the buyer, once all the conditions for the sale are satisfied.



In summary, whether the escrow agent is a business or an individual, the purpose they serve is that of a neutral, trusted third party to transactions that may involve persons who never end up meeting each other.
What Is an Escrow Agreement?  

An escrow agreement is a contract that outlines the terms and conditions between parties involved, and the responsibility of each. Escrow agreements generally involve an independent third party, called an escrow agent, who holds an asset of value until the specified conditions of the contract are met. However, they should fully outline the conditions for all parties involved. 





Key Takeaways

An escrow agreement is a legal document outlining terms and conditions between parties as well as the responsibility of each.Agreements usually involve an independent third party called an escrow agent, who holds an asset until the contract's conditions are met.Escrow agreements are commonly used in real estate transactions.The escrow agreement generally includes, but is not limited to, information about the escrow agent's identity, the funds in escrow, and the acceptable use of funds by the agent﻿. 


   How Escrow Agreements Work  

In an escrow agreement, one party—usually a depositor—deposits funds or an asset with the escrow agent until the time that the contract is fulfilled. Once the contractual conditions are met, the escrow agent will deliver the funds or other assets to the beneficiary. Escrow agreements are commonly used in different financial transactions—especially those that involve significant dollar amounts such as real estate or online sales.



Escrow agreements must fully outline the conditions between all parties involved. Having one in place ensures all the obligations of the parties involved are met, and that the transaction is conducted in a safe and reliable manner.



An escrow agreement normally includes information such as:



The identity of the appointed escrow agentDefinitions for any expressions pertinent to the agreementThe escrow funds and detailed conditions for the release of these fundsThe acceptable use of funds by the escrow agentThe duties and liabilities of the escrow agentThe escrow agent's fees and expensesThe jurisdiction and venue in the event of a legal action



Most escrow agreements are put into place when one party wants to make sure the other party meets certain conditions or obligations before it moves forward with a deal. For instance, a seller may set up an escrow agreement to ensure a potential homebuyer can secure financing before the sale goes through. If the buyer cannot secure financing, the deal can be called off and the escrow agreement canceled.



For certain transactions such as real estate, the escrow agent may open up an escrow account into which funds are deposited. Cash has traditionally been the go-to asset that people entrust to an escrow agent. But nowadays, any asset that holds a value can be put into escrow including stocks, bonds, deeds, mortgages, patents, or a check.






Escrow agreements provide security by delegating an asset to an escrow agent for safekeeping until each party meets his or her contractual obligations.


   Special Considerations   

There may come a time during a business transaction when it is in the best interest of one party to move forward only if it knows with absolute certainty that the other party can fulfill its obligations. This is where the use of an escrow agreement comes into play.



For example, a company purchasing goods internationally wants to be certain its counterpart can deliver the goods. Conversely, the seller wants to ensure it gets paid if it sends the goods to the buyer. Both parties can put an escrow agreement in place to ensure delivery and payment. They can agree the buyer will deposit the funds in escrow with an agent and give irrevocable instructions to disburse the funds to the seller once the goods arrive. The escrow agent—likely an attorney—is bound by the terms of the agreement.


   Types of Escrow Agreements  

Escrow agreements are frequently used in real estate transactions. Title agents in the United States, notaries in civil law countries, and attorneys in other parts of the world routinely act as escrow agents by holding the seller's deed to a property.



Payment is typically made to the escrow agent. The buyer can perform due diligence on his potential acquisition—like doing a home inspection or securing financing—while assuring the seller of his capacity to close on the purchase. If the purchase goes through, the escrow agent will apply the money to the purchase price. If the conditions set forth by the agreement are not met or the deal falls through, the escrow agent can refund the money to the buyer.



Stocks are often the subject of an escrow agreement in the context of an initial public offering (IPO) or when they are granted to employees under stock option plans. These stocks are usually in escrow because there is a minimum time limit that needs to pass before they can be freely traded by their owners.
What Are Escrowed Shares?  

Escrowed shares are shares held in an escrow account, secured by a third party, pending the completion of a corporate action or an elapse of time leading up to an event. Shares are escrowed in three common cases:



Merger and acquisition transactionsBankruptcy or reorganization of a company Granting of restricted shares to an employee of a firm





Key Takeaways

Escrowed shares are stocks that are held in an escrow account.Escrow means that the shares are held by a third party until certain conditions have been met to reduce counterparty risk in a transaction.Companies will also issue stock in escrow, imposing limitations on when the shares can be sold, as part of an employee's compensation plan.Mergers and acquisitions often require shares of the target company to be held in escrow until the deal is finalized.Under a compensation plan, companies often hold their stock in escrow to retain executive employees.


   Understanding Escrowed Shares  

Escrow is a process whereby money or a financial asset is held by a third party on behalf of two other parties. The assets or funds that are held in escrow remain there and are not released until all of the obligations outlined in the agreement are fulfilled. Escrow reduces the risk in a transaction by having a third party hold assets, which prevents one party from having to pursue the other party for the funds or assets.






The release of escrowed shares can depress investors' shares and significantly affect share price.



In stock transactions, the equity shares are held in escrow–essentially a holding account–until a transaction or other specific requirements have been satisfied. Many times, a stock issued in escrow will be owned by the shareholder. However, the shareholder may be prevented from selling the stock immediately or may have limited access to selling the shares.


   When Shares Are Escrowed  
  Employee Compensation  

Oftentimes, companies issue shares of stock as a bonus or as part of the company's compensation program for executive employees. In these scenarios, the employees are typically required to wait a specified period of time before selling their shares. These shares are called restricted shares as the employee must wait until the vesting period has elapsed to own the shares. Between the grant date and vesting date, the shares are held in escrow. Upon the vesting date, the shares are released to the employee.



The reason companies hold their stock in escrow is that it provides an extra incentive for the employees to remain with the company for the long term. Shares of stock can be held in escrow for anywhere between one to three years before an employee or executive can cash them out.


  Mergers and Acquisitions  

For example, funds for an acquisition can be held in escrow until government regulatory authorities approve the transaction. Other times, the purchase price might need to be adjusted at some point during the process, and as a result, funds are placed in escrow to cover for the variance.



A targeted company may also request that a holdback–in the form of acquirer shares–be held in escrow to protect against non-performance by the acquirer in a business combination. However, the holdback can be in the form of escrow shares, cash, or a combination of both. The practice of placing shares in escrow for a specified period is common for non-public companies as well as public ones.


  Bankruptcy or Reorganization  

A company's shares may be suspended from trading during a bankruptcy filing or a company reorganization, pending the resolution of the corporate action. In this case, a shareholder's holding will be converted to escrow shares and then converted back to their original form if any equity remains in the company after the completion of the bankruptcy or reorganization process.



A merger or acquisition can result in the buyer (acquirer) requesting a portion of the deal in consideration—typically 10% to 15%–to be held in escrow. Typically, shares of the seller or target company would be held. The escrowed shares protect the buyer from potential breaches in seller representation and warranties, covenants, contingencies, and working capital adjustments, among other material adverse items that may affect the valuation of deal or the closing itself.


   Benefits of Escrowed Shares  

Escrowed shares are designed to protect both parties to a transaction. The escrow agent ensures that shares are protected while the agreement is being executed and that all parties fulfill their contractual obligations. Holding shares in escrow can also prevent losses from market fluctuations.



In mergers and acquisitions (M&A), if the seller breaches the agreement, the buyer may recover the escrowed shares to mitigate losses. If the buyer breaches the agreement, the seller may retain the escrowed shares.



Also, if the buyer needs more money to fulfill the agreement, the escrowed shares are available to facilitate the transaction. This access prevents the buyer from disturbing operations and adversely affecting shareholders.


   Real-World Examples  

In 2009, ADVENTRIX Pharmaceuticals—seeking to gain FDA approval for its chemotherapy agent—sold 5% of its Series B convertible preferred stock to an institutional investor. Twenty-five percent of the gross proceeds, or approximately $340,000, was put into an escrow account to be released over time under certain circumstances.



In the same year, DAX Partners, LP entered into a share purchase agreement with Selectica, Inc. as part of its acquisition of the company. Dax Partners agreed to buy $3.22 million in shares, of which $1 million worth was held in escrow. The escrow funds were released to the seller upon the full execution of the agreement.
What Is Esoteric Debt?  

Esoteric debt refers to debt instruments as well as other investments (called esoteric assets) that are structured in a way that few people fully understand. Esoteric debt is complex and can be a product of securitization, or simply arise through a complex financing arrangement. As such, the pricing of these securities can be contested or seem to be known to relatively few market participants. Moreover, the structure of these instruments may lead to deceptively attractive risk/return profiles over other investments when the instruments function properly, but can also lead to illiquidity and pricing problems when markets are disrupted.





Key Takeaways

Esoteric debt refers to debts or other financial instruments that have complex structure that is properly understood by only a few people with specialized knowledge.Because of their inscrutability, the true nature of their fair value and their risk/return profile can be unknown or misleading to market participants.Mispricings and inadequate risk management of these positions has therefore led to financial crises and large losses when esoteric investments fail to perform as advertised.Esoteric debt often arises through the process of securitization or in the form of derivatives contracts.


   Understanding Esoteric Debt  

Esoteric debt can refer to a range of debt investments. Some are based off collateral that isn't a traditional base from which to offer bonds or other debt securities, including things like patents, fees, licensing agreements, and so on. Others offer complex payment terms to the issuing company. Pay-in-kind toggle notes, for example, are debt securities that allow a company to toggle between two options—one is to make the interest payment, the other is to take on extra debt owing to the security holder. These investments come with higher risks and, therefore, offer higher yields than regular bonds or even junk bonds. They also come with the extra issues of liquidity, as the market for complex instruments is thin at the best of times and can completely vanish during periods of uncertainty. 



A common type of esoteric debt are pass-through securities: pools of individual fixed-income securities that are in turn backed by a package of assets. A servicing intermediary collects the monthly payments from issuers and, after deducting a fee, remits or passes them through to the holders of the pass-through security. Mortgage-backed securities (MBS) are a common example of pass-through securities. They derive their value from unpaid mortgages, in which the owner of the security receives payments based on a partial claim to the payments being made by the various debtors. Multiple mortgages are packaged together, forming a pool, which thus spreads the risk across multiple loans. However, some mortgage owners are likely to refinance their home or sell, meaning that their loans will be paid off early. Others may default on their loan. These unknowns lead to esoteric pricing models that can vary among and between counterparties in this market.



Auction rate securities are another example of an esoteric debt vehicle that has been effectively shut down since the 2008 financial crisis.


   Esoteric Debt and the Financial Crisis  

The Financial Crisis of 2008–2009 introduced the global economy to some of the risks inherent in having too much esoteric debt and too many esoteric investments in general. During this time, credit was flowing so freely that many companies and third-party issuers were creating innovative and imaginative debt vehicles tailored to whatever a particular investor wanted. The primary driver, of course, was to make a lot of money in fees and meet the financing needs of some desperate companies rather than as a favor to investors. 



When the credit market seized up as companies struggled to accurately value their holdings of mortgage-backed securities and credit default swaps, the oddball esoteric debt was considered too complex to even bother with. So, while there was a slow and painful process that eventually led to the troubled MBS being priced and then moved, the market for esoteric debt froze entirely. Without accurate pricing information, there were few buyers to help investors move esoteric debt off their balance sheets. This took down the auction rate securities market, which was once perceived as being slightly more risky than the money market. The SEC stepped in on that particular file to force settlements over improper disclosure of risk, but not all forms of esoteric debt received the same treatment.  



Interestingly enough, esoteric debt began reappearing shortly after the Financial Crisis transitioned to the Great Recession. Starved for yield, investors were once again willing to take on complexity and liquidity risk for a better return. While these complicated instruments may be more attractive than plain vanilla debt in good times, they can present immense problems when the credit markets tighten.
What Is an Estate?  

An estate is everything comprising the net worth of an individual, including all land and real estate, possessions, financial securities, cash, and other assets that the individual owns or has a controlling interest in.





Key Takeaways

An estate is the economic valuation of all the investments, assets, and interests of an individual.The estate includes a person's belongings, physical and intangible assets, land and real estate, investments, collectibles, and furnishings.Estate planning refers to the management of how assets will be transferred to beneficiaries when an individual passes away.Estate taxes may be levied on the value of one's estate at death.


   Understanding Estates  

The word estate is colloquially used to refer to all of the land and improvements on a vast property, often some farm or homestead, or the historic home of a prominent family. However, in the financial and legal sense of the term, an estate refers to everything of value that an individual owns—real estate, art collections, antique items, investments, insurance, and any other assets and entitlements—and is also used as an overarching way to refer to a person's net worth. Legally, a person's estate refers to an individual's total assets, minus any liabilities.



The value of a personal estate is of particular relevance in two cases: if the individual declares bankruptcy, and if the individual dies. When an individual debtor declares bankruptcy, their estate is assessed to determine which of their debts they can be reasonably expected to pay. Bankruptcy proceedings involve the same rigorous legal assessment of an estate that also occurs upon an individual's death.



Estates are most relevant upon the death of an individual. Estate planning is the act of managing the division and inheritance of your personal estate, and arguably represents the most important financial planning of an individual's life. Generally, an individual draws up a will which explains the testator's intentions for the distribution of their estate upon their death. A person who receives assets through inheritance is called a beneficiary. 


   How Estates Are Managed  

In almost all cases, estates are divided among members of the deceased's family. This passage of wealth from one generation of a family to the next has a tendency to entrench income in certain social classes or families. Inheritance accounts for a massive proportion of total wealth in the United States and around the world and is in part responsible for persistent income inequality (though there are, of course, many other factors).



Partially as a response to the stagnation of wealth movement as a result of inheritance, most governments require those in line for an inheritance to pay an inheritance tax (estate tax) on the estate. This tax can be very large, sometimes requiring the beneficiary to sell some of the inherited assets to pay the tax bill.






In the U.S., if the majority of an estate is left to a spouse or a charity, the estate tax is generally lifted.



It is generally advisable for both the individual drafting the will and the beneficiaries of an estate to employ the services of estate attorneys. Inheritance taxes are notorious for their complexity and exorbitance, and the use of an attorney helps ensure that your inheritance taxes are paid correctly. On the drafting end, several measures can be taken to minimize the amount of tax one's beneficiaries will have to pay—for example, setting up trusts.


   Writing a Will  

A will is a legal document created to provide instructions on how an individual’s property and custody of minor children, if any, should be handled after death. The individual expresses their wishes through the document and names a trustee or executor that they trust to fulfill the stated intentions. The will also indicates whether a trust should be created after death.



Depending on the estate owner’s intentions, a trust can go into effect during their lifetime (living trust) or after the death of the individual (testamentary trust).



The authenticity of a will is determined through a legal process known as probate. Probate is the first step taken in administering the estate of a deceased person and distributing assets to the beneficiaries. When an individual dies, the custodian of the will must take the will to the probate court or to the executor named in the will within 30 days (in most states) of the death of the testator. However, it may vary by state, for example, Florida requires a will be filed within 10 days of being notified of the death.﻿﻿



The probate process is a court-supervised procedure in which the authenticity of the will left behind is proven to be valid and accepted as the true last testament of the deceased. The court officially appoints the executor named in the will, which, in turn, gives the executor the legal power to act on behalf of the deceased.
What Is Estate Planning?  

The term estate planning refers to the preparation of tasks that serve to manage an individual's financial situation in the event of their incapacitation or death. The planning includes the bequest of assets to heirs and the settlement of estate taxes and debts, along with other considerations like the guardianship of minors and pets. Most estate plans are set up with the help of an attorney experienced in estate law. Some of the steps included in estate planning typically include listing assets and debts, reviewing accounts, and the writing of wills.





Key Takeaways

Estate planning involves determining how an individual’s assets will be preserved, managed, and distributed after death or in the event they become incapacitated.Estate planning tasks include making a will, setting up trusts and/or making charitable donations to limit estate taxes, naming an executor and beneficiaries, and setting up funeral arrangements.A will is a legal document that provides instructions on how an individual’s property and custody of minor children (if any) should be handled after death.Various strategies can be used to limit taxes on an estate, from creating trusts to making charitable donations.Estate planning can and should be used by anyone—not just the ultra-wealthy.


   The Estate Planning Process  

Estate planning involves determining how an individual’s assets will be preserved, managed, and distributed after death. It also takes into account the management of an individual’s properties and financial obligations in the event that they become incapacitated. Contrary to what most people believe, this isn't a tool meant just for the ultra-wealthy. In fact, anyone can and should consider estate planning.



Assets that could make up an individual’s estate include houses, cars, stocks, artwork, life insurance, pensions, and debt. Individuals have various reasons for planning an estate, such as preserving family wealth, providing for a surviving spouse and children, funding children's or grandchildren’s education, or leaving their legacy behind for a charitable cause.



The most basic step in estate planning involves writing a will. Other major estate planning tasks include the following:



Limiting estate taxes by setting up trust accounts in the names of beneficiaries
Establishing a guardian for living dependents
Naming an executor of the estate to oversee the terms of the will
Creating or updating beneficiaries on plans such as life insurance, IRAs, and 401(k)s
Setting up funeral arrangements
Establishing annual gifting to qualified charitable and non-profit organizations to reduce the taxable estate
Setting up a durable power of attorney (POA) to direct other assets and investments



The following table serves as a checklist when it comes to planning your estate:









Task
Considerations


1. Make a list of all your assets. 
Be sure to include any physical assets like real estate and precious metals along with any bank accounts, insurance policies, and annuities.


2. Make a list of all your debts.
This list should include everything you owe, including any loans.


3. Make copies of your lists. 
If you have multiple beneficiaries, it helps to make multiple copies for each one to have at their disposal.


4. Review your retirement accounts.
This is important, especially for accounts that have beneficiaries attached to them. Remember, any accounts with a beneficiary pass directly to them so it doesn't matter what your will states.


5. Review your insurance and annuities. 
Make sure your beneficiary information is up-to-date and all of your other information is accurate.


6. Set up joint accounts or transfer of death designations. 
Joint accounts, especially checking and savings accounts, do not have to go through the probate process as long as there is a right of survivorship. This means the account moves directly from the deceased to the surviving owner. Similarly, a transfer of death designation allows you to name an individual who can take over the account after you die without probate.


7. Choose your estate administrator.
This individual is responsible for taking care of your financial matters after you die. Choose someone you trust. Your spouse may not be the right person as they may not be in the right emotional space to take over your finances.


8. Write your will.
Wills don't just unravel any financial uncertainty, they can also lay out plans for your minor children and pets, and you can also instruct your family/estate to make charitable donations with the money you leave behind.


9. Review your documents.
Make sure you look over everything every couple of years and make changes whenever and wherever you see fit.


10. Send a copy of your will to your administrator.
This ensures there is no second-guessing that a will exists or that it gets lost. Send one to the person who will assume responsibility for your affairs after you die and keep another copy somewhere safe.


11. See a financial professional. 
This individual may be an estate planner or a financial planner. This person can help you review your accounts and help you make decisions to optimize your earnings.


12. Consolidate your accounts. 
Some people have accounts in different places. But as time goes on, it's always a good idea to move as much as you can into one place. Doing so helps clear up any confusion in the future for you and for your heirs.


13. Complete other financial documents. 
You may need other legal and financial documents as you get older. Consider a power of attorney (POA) for health and finances, living wills, and letters of instruction that provide direction for your funeral or what to do with other assets like a digital wallet.


14. Consider other savings vehicles. 
There are some tax-saving investment vehicles you can take advantage of to help you and others, such as 529 college savings plans for your grandchildren.





   Writing a Will  

A will is a legal document that provides instructions on how an individual’s property and custody of minor children (if any) should be handled after death. The individual expresses their wishes and names a trustee or executor that they trust to fulfill their stated intentions.



The will also indicates whether a trust should be created after death. Depending on the estate owner’s intentions, a trust can go into effect during their lifetime through a living trust or with a testamentary trust after their death.



The authenticity of a will is determined through a legal process known as probate. Probate is the first step taken in administering the estate of a deceased person and distributing assets to the beneficiaries. When an individual dies, the custodian of the will must take the will to the probate court or to the executor named in the will within 30 days of the death of the testator.



The probate process is a court-supervised procedure in which the authenticity of the will left behind is proved to be valid and accepted as the true last testament of the deceased. The court officially appoints the executor named in the will, which, in turn, gives the executor the legal power to act on behalf of the deceased.





Estate Planning vs. Will

Estate planning is an action plan that individuals use to determine what happens to their assets and obligations while they're alive and after they die. A will, on the other hand, is a legal document that outlines how assets are distributed, who takes care of minor children and pets, and any other wishes after an individual dies.


   Appointing the Right Executor  

The legal personal representative or executor approved by the court is responsible for locating and overseeing all the assets of the deceased. The executor has to estimate the value of the estate by using either the date of death value or the alternative valuation date, as provided in the Internal Revenue Code (IRC).



A list of assets that need to be assessed during probate includes:



Retirement accounts
Bank accounts
Stocks and bonds
Real estate property
Jewelry
Any other items of value



Most assets that are subject to probate administration come under the supervision of the probate court in the place where the decedent lived at death. The exception is real estate, which must be probated in the county in which it is located.



The executor also has to pay off any taxes and debt owed by the deceased from the estate. Creditors usually have a limited amount of time from the date they were notified of the testator’s death to make claims against the estate for money owed to them. Claims that are rejected by the executor can be taken to court where a probate judge will have the final say as to whether or not the claim is valid.



The executor is also responsible for filing the final personal income tax returns on behalf of the deceased. After the inventory of the estate has been taken, the value of assets calculated, and taxes and debt paid off, the executor will then seek authorization from the court to distribute whatever is left of the estate to the beneficiaries.






Any estate taxes that are pending will come due within nine months of the date of death.


   Planning for Estate Taxes  

Federal and state taxes applied to an estate can considerably reduce its value before assets are distributed to beneficiaries. Death can result in large liabilities for the family, necessitating generational transfer strategies that can reduce, eliminate, or postpone tax payments. There are significant steps in the estate planning process that individuals and married couples can take to reduce the impact of these taxes.


  A-B Trusts  

Married couples, for example, can set up an A-B trust that divides into two after the death of the first spouse. Trust A is the survivor's trust while trust B becomes the decedent's trust. Each individual places their assets in the trust and names someone other than their spouse as the beneficiary.


  Education Funding Strategies  

A grandfather may encourage his grandchildren to seek college or advanced degrees and thus transfer assets to an entity, such as a 529 plan, for the purpose of current or future education funding.



That may be a much more tax-efficient move than having those assets transferred after death to fund college when the beneficiaries are of college age. The latter may trigger multiple tax events that can severely limit the amount of funding available to the kids.


  Cutting the Tax Effects of Charitable Contributions  

Another strategy an estate planner can take to minimize the estate’s tax liability after death is by giving to charitable organizations while alive. The gifts reduce the financial size of the estate since they are excluded from the taxable estate, thus lowering the estate tax bill.



As a result, the individual has a lower effective cost of giving, which provides additional incentive to make those gifts. And of course, an individual may wish to make charitable contributions to a variety of causes. Estate planners can work with the donor in order to reduce taxable income as a result of those contributions or formulate strategies that maximize the effect of those donations.


  Estate Freezing  

This is another strategy that can be used to limit death taxes. It involves an individual locking in the current value, and thus tax liability, of their property, while attributing the value of future growth of that capital to another person. Any increase that occurs in the value of the assets in the future is transferred to the benefit of another person, such as a spouse, child, or grandchild.



This method involves freezing the value of an asset at its value on the date of transfer. Accordingly, the amount of potential capital gain at death is also frozen, allowing the estate planner to estimate their potential tax liability upon death and better plan for the payment of income taxes.


   Using Life Insurance in Estate Planning  

Life insurance serves as a source to pay death taxes and expenses, fund business buy-sell agreements, and fund retirement plans. If sufficient insurance proceeds are available and the policies are properly structured, any income tax on the deemed dispositions of assets following the death of an individual can be paid without resorting to the sale of assets. Proceeds from life insurance that are received by the beneficiaries upon the death of the insured are generally income tax-free.



Estate planning is an ongoing process and should be started as soon as an individual has any measurable asset base. As life progresses and goals shift, the estate plan should shift in line with new goals. Lack of adequate estate planning can cause undue financial burdens to loved ones (estate taxes can run as high as 40%), so at the very least, a will should be set up—even if the taxable estate is not large.




What Is Estate Planning?
Estate planning is a broad term that is used to describe the process that individuals go through to plan the administration of their assets and liabilities before and after they die. This process also includes writing a will, reviewing accounts and assets, creating joint accounts, preparing other legal documents, and appointing an executor among other things.




How Expensive Is Estate Planning?
Estate planning costs vary based on the steps you take and how you undergo the process. For instance, using an estate planner or lawyer may require you to pay an hourly fee for their services. Keep in mind that you may be able to secure a flat fee for services rendered. Other fees associated with estate include will preparation, which can be as low as $100 if you hire a professional.




What Documents Do I Need as Part of my Estate Planning?
There are certain documents you'll need as part of the estate planning process. Some of the most common ones include wills, powers of attorney (POAs), guardianship designations, and living wills. Other paperwork you'll need and will find useful include bank and account statements, full lists of your holdings (assets and liabilities), and beneficiary designations.




Is Estate Planning Only for the Wealthy?
There is a myth that estate planning is only for high-net-worth individuals. But that's not true. In fact, estate planning is a tool that everyone can use. Estate planning makes it easier for individuals to determine their wishes before and after they die. Contrary to what most people believe, it extends beyond what to do with assets and liabilities. In fact, estate planning can also answer questions about the guardianship of minor children and pets, what to do when it comes time for your funeral, and what charities you want to support after you die.


   The Bottom Line  

Estate planning is often thought of as a tool for the wealthy. But that isn't the case. It can be a useful way for you to deal with your assets and liabilities before and after you die. Estate planning is also a great way for you to lay out plans for the care of your minor children and pets, and to outline your wishes for your funeral and favorite charities. But don't confuse writing a will with estate planning—the former is just one of the steps you'll need to take in the estate planning process. While you're at it, make sure you appoint a responsible executor and review your accounts on a regular basis to ensure you're getting the most bang for your buck.
What Is an Estate Tax?  

The estate tax is a federal tax levied on the transfer of the estate of a person who dies. An estate tax applies when the value exceeds an exclusion limit set by law. Only the amount that exceeds that minimum threshold is subject to tax.



Assessed by the federal government and several state governments, these levies are calculated based on the estate's fair market value (FMV) rather than what the deceased originally paid for its assets. The tax is levied by the state in which the deceased person was living at the time of their death. 





Key Takeaways

The estate tax is a financial levy on an estate based on the current value of its assets. Federal estate taxes are levied on assets of more than $12.06 million for 2022 and $12.92 million for 2023.Assets transferred to spouses are exempt from estate tax.Recipients of an estate's assets may be subject to inheritance tax.


   How Federal Estate Taxes Work  

The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) requires estates with combined gross assets and prior taxable gifts exceeding $12.06 million for 2022 and $12.92 million for 2023 to file a federal estate tax return and pay estate tax as required. For an estate worth $13 million with a 2023 exclusion limit of $12.92 million, estate taxes would be levied on $80,000 of the estate.



The unlimited marital deduction eliminates the estate tax on assets transferred to a surviving spouse. However, when the surviving spouse who inherited an estate dies, the beneficiaries may owe estate taxes if the estate exceeds the exclusion limit.


   How State Estate Taxes Work  

An estate that escapes federal tax may still be subject to taxation by the state in which the decedent was living at the time of their death, however, estates valued at less than $1,000,000 are not taxed in any jurisdiction.


  Jurisdictions With Estate Taxes  

As of 2022, these jurisdictions have estate taxes with the following threshold minimums. Connecticut has enacted legislation for its exemption to match the federal exemption in 2023.



Connecticut ($12,920,000 for 2023 to match the federal exemption)District of Columbia ($4,254,800)Hawaii ($5,490,000)Illinois ($4,000,000)Maine ($6,010,000)Maryland ($5,000,000)Massachusetts ($1,000,000)Minnesota ($3,000,000)New York ($6,110,000)Oregon ($1,000,000)Rhode Island ($1,648,611)Vermont ($5,000,000)Washington State ($2,193,000)


   Estate Tax and Gift Tax  

Since estate taxes are levied on an individual's assets and estate after death, they can be avoided if you gift assets before you die. However, the federal gift tax applies to assets that are given away within certain limits while the taxpayer is living. According to the IRS, the gift tax applies whether the donor meant the transfer as a gift or not.


  Gift Tax Exclusion  

The IRS offers generous gift exclusions. For 2022, the annual exclusion is $16,000, meaning tax filers can gift up to $16,000 to each person they wish without paying tax on any of those gifts. For the 2023 tax year, the annual exclusion increases to $17,000.



These provisions make gifting an effective way to avoid tax on assets transferred to people, such as non-family members, who might be subject to the estate tax if the assets were transferred as part of an estate.


  Gift Exclusion Limit  

If your gifts exceed the gift-exclusion limit, they aren't subject to tax immediately and may never be taxed unless your estate is substantial. The amount above the gift limit is noted and added to the taxable value of your estate when calculating estate tax after you die. 



If making a gift of $37,000 in 2023 with an exclusion of $17,000, the remaining $20,000 will need to be reported on a 709 gift tax return. That $20,000 will reduce your lifetime exclusion to $12.9 million, and also your estate tax exclusion to $12.9 million.






The estate tax is sometimes referred to pejoratively as a "death tax" since it is levied on the assets of a deceased individual.


   Estate Tax and Inheritance Tax  

An estate tax is applied to an estate before the assets are given to beneficiaries. In contrast, an inheritance tax applies to assets after they have been inherited and are paid by the inheritor.


  How an Inheritance Tax Works  

There is no federal inheritance tax, however, select states including Iowa, Kentucky, Maryland, Nebraska, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania levy inheritance taxes. Maryland has both an estate and an inheritance tax.



The inheritance tax is assessed by the state in which the beneficiary is living. Whether your inheritance will be taxed, and at what rate, depends on its value, your relationship to the decedent, and the prevailing rules and rates where you live.



As with estate tax, an inheritance tax, if due, is applied only to the sum that exceeds the exemption. Above those thresholds, the tax is usually assessed on a sliding basis. Rates typically begin in the single digits and rise to between 15% and 18%, as of 2022. The exemption you receive and the rate you're charged may vary by your relationship with the deceased.


  Inheritance Tax Exceptions  

Life insurance payable to a named beneficiary is not typically subject to an inheritance tax, although life insurance payable to the deceased person or their estate is usually subject to an estate tax.



As a rule, the closer your relationship to the decedent, the lower the rate you'll pay. Surviving spouses are exempt from inheritance tax in all six states. Domestic partners, too, are exempt in New Jersey. Descendants pay no inheritance tax except in Nebraska and Pennsylvania.


  Jurisdictions With Inheritance Tax  

Here are the jurisdictions that have inheritance taxes and their threshold minimums for 2022. Iowa will abolish its inheritance taxation by 2025.



Iowa ($25,000)Kentucky ($500–$1,000)Maryland ($50,000–$100,000)Nebraska ($42,500–$150,000) for 2023New Jersey ($0 to $25,000)Pennsylvania ($0 to $3,500)



Because the rates for estate tax can be quite high, careful estate planning is advisable for individuals who have estates worth millions of dollars that they want to leave to heirs or other beneficiaries.
What Is Estimated Ultimate Recovery?  

Estimated ultimate recovery (EUR) is a production term commonly used in the oil and gas industry. Estimated ultimate recovery is an approximation of the quantity of oil or gas that is potentially recoverable or has already been recovered from a reserve or well.



EUR is similar in concept to recoverable reserves.





Key Takeaways

Estimated ultimate recovery (EUR) refers to potential production expected from an oil well or deposit.EUR is made up of three levels of confidence is the amount of oil yet to be recovered: proven reserves; probable reserves; and possible reserves.EUR is used by oil companies, as well as analysts and investors, to compute the NPV for oil exploration and drilling projects and the expected corporate profits associated with that.


   Understanding Estimated Ultimate Recovery  

Estimated ultimate recovery can be calculated using many differing methods and units depending on the project or study being conducted. In the oil and gas industry, it is of the utmost importance that drilling projects meet an acceptable EUR threshold for a project to be considered viable and profitable.



A more precise definition of EUR is "discovered oil reserves" and there are three categories, each based on the degree of likelihood that the oil can be recovered using current technology.



Proven Reserves — There is a greater than 90% chance that the oil will be recovered.
Probable Reserves — The chance of actually getting the oil out is greater than 50%.
Possible Reserves — The likelihood of recovering the oil is significant, but less than 50%.



Keep in mind that part of an oil field's probable and possible reserves are converted into proven reserves over time. These reserves can be re-categorized for a number of reasons ranging from improvements in oil recovery methods and techniques to changing oil prices. For example, as oil prices rise, the quantity of proven reserves also rises because the breakeven price of recovery can be met. Reserves that were too expensive to produce at lower oil prices become viable as oil prices rise. This makes it possible to reclassify these more costly reserves as proven. The opposite happens as oil prices fall. If oil reserves become too expensive to recover at current market prices, the probability of them being produced also falls. This results in reserves being reclassified from proven back to probable or even possible.


   EUR's Use to Value Oil Reserves  

Without an estimated ultimate recovery, oil companies would not be able to make rational investment decisions. Like all projects, management needs to be able to estimate accurately the net present value (NPV) of an oil drilling project. This valuation exercise requires several inputs, like the cost of bringing the first barrel to production, the cost of capital, the long-term price of oil and the ultimate amount of oil that will be produced, or EUR. Without an EUR, it would not be possible to reach an accurate valuation of the potential oil reserves.
What Is Estoppel?  

The term estoppel refers to a legal principle that prevents someone from arguing something or asserting a right that contradicts what they previously said or agreed to by law. Put simply, estoppel prevents one person from contradicting an action or statement from the past. It is part of common law and is meant to prevent people from being unjustly wronged by the inconsistencies of another person's words or actions. Some of the most common forms of estoppel include collateral estoppel and promissory estoppel.





Key Takeaways

Estoppel is a legal principle that is found in common law systems in the U.S., U.K., Canada, and other countries.It protects one party by holding another to their word or requiring them to adhere to established legal facts.Forms of the doctrine of estoppel vary by country.Types of estoppel include collateral estoppel, equitable estoppel, and promissory estoppel.Estoppel certificates are commonly used in real estate and must be signed by tenants when the landlord is trying to conduct a transaction with the property.


   How Estoppel Works  

Common law is a form of law that is derived from judicial decisions and precedent. This means that the laws aren't established or based on legislation or statutes. Most of the legal system in the United States was based on English common law. That was until the country's legal system became developed enough to set precedent to shape its own form of common law.



Almost all countries with a judicial system based on common law, including the United Kingdom, Canada, and the United States, have incorporated multiple forms of the doctrine of estoppel in their laws. While the names of the principles differ from country to country, the concept is essentially the same: consistency, in both words and actions, matters.



As noted above, estoppel legally prevents people from making contradictory claims or actions as opposed to something they may have said or done in the past. In simpler terms, estoppel ensures that a person stays true to their word and doesn't unfairly damage someone else. So if Person A must adhere to their word if they make a promise to Person B and later rescind it. Estoppel can take many different forms, the most common of which are listed below.






The action of preventing someone from going back on their word is referred to as estop. The person being who goes back on their word is considered estopped.


   Types of Estoppel  

There are different types of estoppel. The following are some of the most common ones found in the legal arena.



Collateral Estoppel: A collateral estoppel can prevent a person from going back to court as a plaintiff with the same grievance. This prevents legal harassment and abuse of legal resources.
Estoppel by Deed: This type of estoppel prevents a person from denying the truth of any fact stated in a deed they have executed.
Equitable Estoppel: This form of estoppel prevents someone from taking a legal position that is contrary or inconsistent with their previous stance if doing so harms the other party.
Promissory Estoppel: This is commonly found in contract law. Promissory estoppel protects a person who has acted based on another person's reasonable promise, whether in a formal contract or not, and then suffers significant economic loss because the other party did not fulfill that promise.



Other lesser-known forms of estoppel are estoppel by record, estoppel by deed, laches, estoppel by silence, and reliance-based estoppel.


   Estoppel Certificate Components  

An estoppel certificate is common in the mortgage and commercial real estate industries. It is a document that is often required by lenders and third parties if and when property owners either try to sell their properties (that are tenanted) or refinance a loan.



This document, which is also called an estoppel letter, is generally prepared by the landlord and is signed by the lessee or tenant. In essence, it verifies and asserts claims made to the third party (either a lender or a buyer) by the landlord. Some of the most common details included in the certificate or letter are:



Lease terms, including the start and end dates of the lease
The date of the last rent payment
Confirmation that the lease is up to date or highlights what any defaults were made by either party
A statement verifying that no modifications were made to the lease or details of any changes made and when


   Example of Estoppel  

Promissory estoppel was the heart of a case pitting two neighbors against one another in Iowa. A farmer leased property from his neighbor, who he said promised to sell him his farm at some point in the future for $3,000 an acre.



The farmer then made substantial improvements to the property during the term of the lease, with the expectation that he would become its eventual owner. But the owner sold the property to a third party, prompting his neighbor to file a lawsuit, saying he had the right to purchase the farm.



At the trial, the jury awarded the farmer $52,000 in damages to cover the improvements made to the property. Eventually, the case found its way to the Iowa Court of Appeals, which ruled that the option for the farmer to purchase the farm did not need to be included in the written lease agreement to be valid. The court stated that there was a clear and definite promise along with the neighbor's understanding that the farmer was relying on that promise. As such, the property owner was ordered to pay the farmer damages.




How Do You Define Estoppel?
Estoppel is part of common law. It is a legal principle that prevents someone from going back on their word to someone else and unfairly causing damage to someone else. If legal action is taken, the court can stop (or estop) an individual from rescinding a promise made to another party.




What Is an Estoppel Certificate?
Estoppel is common in the mortgage industry and commercial real estate. Also called an estoppel letter or certificate, it entails the use of a document that is signed by a tenant. This document confirms the rental agreement set forth by the landlord. It can be presented to a third party if the landlord or property owner tries to do anything with the property, including selling it or trying to refinance a loan.




What Are the Different Types of Estoppel?
Estoppel comes in many different forms. Some are more common while others are lesser known. They include equitable estoppel, promissory estoppel, collateral estoppel, and estoppel by deed. Others include estoppel by record, estoppel by deed, laches, estoppel by silence, and reliance-based estoppel.


   The Bottom Line  

Common law is a legal system that is based on judicial precedents rather than statutes. One of the principles of common law is estoppel. Although it may seem complicated, estoppel ensures that one party doesn't unfairly damage another by going back on their word. That means that someone can't legally take back something that they've promised to another party. This is especially true if one person's actions do harm to another.
What Is Ether (ETH)?  

Ether is the transactional token that facilitates operations on the Ethereum network. All of the programs and services linked with the Ethereum network require computing power, equipment, internet connections, and maintenance. Ether is the payment users give to network participants for executing their requested operations on the network.



Metaphorically speaking, it is more accurate to refer to ether as the "gas" that powers the network. Gas is the term the community uses to refer to the exchange of ether for the work done to verify transactions and secure the blockchain.



Learn more about ether and how it acts as the fuel that powers the Ethereum blockchain and network.





Key Takeaways

Ether is the transactional token that facilitates operations on the Ethereum network.While ether is the cryptocurrency of the Ethereum network, metaphorically speaking, it is more accurate to refer to it as the "fuel" of the network.Ether is the world’s second-largest virtual currency by market capitalization; it is second only to Bitcoin (BTC) according to market value.


   Understanding Ether (ETH)  

The Ethereum blockchain is a distributed ledger designed as a platform that makes it easier for people to create applications that require information to be stored securely. Additionally, it was created to remove third parties from global financial systems and transfer monetary control to the people instead of governments and businesses.



A distributed, worldwide virtual computer hosts the platform and the blockchain. It uses nodes (the remote hosts), a consensus layer, an execution layer, and volunteers who provide the equipment necessary for hosting the virtual machine.



The operational costs of maintaining a host and participating in the network and blockchain are minimal, but the volunteer validators must stake valuable ether of their own to host nodes. Validators receive a chance to validate transactions and earn a reward for their work, issued in ether (ETH).






Ether also holds market value and is exchangeable for fiat currency on cryptocurrency exchanges. Ether is thus a native cryptocurrency, investment asset, and a means of exchange.


   How Is Ether Different From Bitcoin?  
  Purpose  

Most importantly, the overall aims of the networks are different. Bitcoin was created as a secure peer-to-peer decentralized payment system, an alternative to traditional currencies.



The Ethereum platform was created to facilitate contracts and applications, and ether is the medium through which these transactions are made possible. Ether was never intended to be an alternative currency or to replace other mediums of exchange, but it has become one. Its original purpose was to facilitate and monetize the operations of the Ethereum platform.



Unlike Bitcoin, the total number of ether tokens does not have an absolute cap—it changes and grows constantly according to demand. As a result, the Ethereum blockchain is significantly larger than the Bitcoin blockchain, and it is expected to continue to outpace Bitcoin in the future.






Ether is given to network participants randomly chosen as validators through proof-of-stake consensus; bitcoin is given as a reward for being the one to open a new block on the blockchain through proof-of-work consensus.


  Blockchain  

Another key difference between the two is that, while the Bitcoin blockchain is simply a ledger of accounts, contributors to the Ethereum blockchain can build more code into the transactions, creating “smart contracts" and other applications. So transactions on the Ethereum network may contain executable code, while the data connected to Bitcoin network transactions are generally only used for recordkeeping.



The amount of time it takes to build a new block also varies between the two virtual currencies. For example, a new block in the Ethereum blockchain can be confirmed in seconds, whereas it takes an average of 10 minutes for the Bitcoin.



In technical terms, these two technologies don't compete; from a functional perspective, they do. This is because cryptocurrencies and blockchains have become more competitive in their use cases, transaction speeds, capabilities, and market capitalization. The two older blockchains must continually evolve to maintain popularity or risk being left behind by newer ideas and techniques.




Is Gas and Ether the Same Thing?
Ether is a cryptocurrency. Gas is a term used by the Ethereum developers and community to refer to the power—measured in ether—needed to pay for validation work and securing the blockchain. So in a sense, they are the same thing in that transactions have gas fees that are paid in ether (ETH).




Why Is Ether Gas Price So High?
Ether gas prices are high because of network traffic. Because someone can pay for their transaction to be prioritized in the queue, prices rise with the demand for transaction validation. Conversely, when network activity is low, gas fees drop.




What Does Ether Actually Do?
Ether has two purposes on the Ethereum network. First, it is used to pay transaction fees, and second, it is staked—held as collateral—for the privilege of being a network validator.


   The Bottom Line  

At its base level, ether functions as an on-chain payment method for the Ethereum blockchain and technologies developed using it. Externally, ether is generally accepted as a unit of account, a medium of exchange, and a store of value—meeting the definition of money according to the Internal Revenue Service.
What Is Ethereum Classic (ETC)?  

Ethereum Classic (ETC) is an open-source, decentralized, blockchain-based distributed cryptocurrency platform that runs smart contracts. Ethereum Classic was formed in 2016 as a result of a hack of The DAO, a smart contract operating on the Ethereum blockchain. The original blockchain was split in two, with the majority of users choosing to reverse the hack and return the stolen funds.



The split revealed philosophical divisions within the Ethereum community. Based on the principle that “Code is Law,” a small number of developers and miners believed that The DAO's investors should suffer the consequences of investing in a flawed project. However, the majority of the Ethereum community decided to roll back the blockchain, effectively creating a bailout for The DAO's investors.





Key Takeaways

Ethereum Classic (ETC) is an open-source, decentralized, blockchain-based distributed cryptocurrency platform that runs smart contracts.Ethereum Classic was originally known as Ethereum. It was conceived by Vitalik Buterin and the Ethereum Foundation and launched in 2015.Ethereum Classic was created after The DAO hack in 2016.The dispute caused a split in the Ethereum community, with the majority choosing to reverse the hack. Ethereum Classic is the name of the original, smaller blockchain.


   Understanding Ethereum Classic (ETC)  

Ethereum is a blockchain platform similar to bitcoin, with one key difference: in addition to recording transactions of value, it can also be used as a distributed computer to run self-executing smart contracts.



Ethereum Classic facilitates smart contracts by offering the benefit of decentralized governance. In other words, the contracts can be enforced without a third party involved, such as a lawyer. Smart contracts are similar to if-then statements, meaning if the actions required within the contract have been fulfilled, then the responding contract parameters would be completed. If the contract parameters have not been fulfilled, then there might be a penalty, a fee, or the contract might be voided, depending on the terms established at the onset of the contract.



For example, in a real estate transaction, if the contract stated that an upfront deposit was to be paid on a certain date, and the funds were not received, then the contract could be voided. The smart contracts are contained within a distributed ledger or blockchain network. A distributed ledger is a ledger of transactions and contracts, which are kept and maintained in a decentralized manner across various locations.



The agreement between a buyer and seller is written in lines of code within the smart contract, which is self-executing, depending on the terms within the contract. As a result, there is no need for external monitoring or censoring by a central authority since the code controls the execution of the contract.


   History of Ethereum Classic  

Initially, the Ethereum blockchain was established as a single network where transactions were facilitated by using the cryptocurrency ether or ETH. The new network quickly became popular for initial coin offerings, as different teams used the platform to launch their own tokens.



One of the most successful ICOs was The DAO, a decentralized venture fund where investors would vote on assets to invest in. The DAO quickly accumulated more than 11 million ETH, from over 18,000 investors, before unknown hackers discovered a smart contract bug allowing them to withdraw about a third of The DAO's accumulated ether.



Due to the scale of the hack, many investors proposed reversing the Ethereum blockchain to rescue the affected investors, while others argued that doing so would set the precedent for future bailouts. After a hastily-arranged poll, 97% of the community voted to restore the lost funds through a hard fork.



As a result, the Ethereum blockchain split into two separate networks. The newer network inherited the name Ethereum and uses ETH or ether as its cryptocurrency. The older one, known as Ethereum Classic, uses ETC.


   Concerns of Ethereum Classic  

Although both Ethereum and Ethereum Classic offer smart contracts and are after the same market, Ethereum has gained in popularity as the more legitimate of the two networks. Also, Ethereum's ETH is second only to Bitcoin as the most valuable cryptocurrency network in the world.



One of the chief concerns of Ethereum Classic is the potential limitations when it comes to scalability. Typically, the network can handle 15 transactions per second, but that number is far less than payment networks such as Visa, which handles more than one thousand transactions per second. Although Ethereum Classic has gone through many software upgrades, the scalability of its payment systems remains to be one of its biggest challenges going forward.



Also, security is likely to remain an issue with smart contracts, particularly since Ethereum Classic has already experienced a hack and theft of millions of dollars. These concerns could potentially prevent smart contracts via Ethereum Classic from being used in major financial and real estate transactions.



Regulations of the cryptocurrency market continue to develop, which may or may not change how Ethereum Classic—and other networks—operate. For example, the Security and Exchange Commission (SEC) does not consider Ethereum or Bitcoin securities due to their decentralized networks.



Without being considered a security, some cryptos may have challenges getting approved for inclusion in various financial products that contain a basket of securities, stocks, and bonds such as exchange traded funds and mutual funds. Going forward, uncertainty remains surrounding the regulatory landscape for Ethereum Classic as well as other, less popular blockchain networks.


   Future of Ethereum Classic  

The future of Ethereum Classic looks less bright than Ethereum since Ethereum is considered the more legitimate of the two networks, especially with the security concerns of Ethereum Classic.



Investors have lost confidence in ETC over the years due to hacks into the system, and until ETC can redevelop its code and software to prevent future hacks, Ethereum Classic may have challenges ahead. However, it remains to be seen how the smart contracts will be developed within the Ethereum Classic project and whether they can be adopted for widespread use.


   How Is Ethereum Classic Different from Ethereum?  

Although Ethereum Classic's ETC has value as a speculative digital asset that investors can trade, Ethereum's ETH is considered the more legitimate and widely traded. In early 2021, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) approved the trading of ether futures. Only Bitcoin and Ether have been approved for such transactions. The futures are derivative contracts on an underlying security with a fixed price and maturity date. Ether futures allow investors to trade ether for speculation but also to hedge an outstanding position in ETH or perhaps other cryptos or crypto-based products such as HEX.



We can determine how the investment community views ETC versus ETH by analyzing how much capital or investment dollars are being committed to the two currencies. When comparing the two market capitalizations of the two cryptos, ETH is the clear winner. The market cap of a cryptocurrency is calculated by multiplying the currency's price—based on a fiat currency such as U.S. dollars—by the outstanding coins or tokens in circulation.



ETC has 141.2 million coins in circulation with a market capitalization of $2.5 billion while ETH has approximately 120 million in circulation and a market cap of more than $225 billion. ETC trades at $18.00, while ETH trades for more than $1,874 per coin as of May 31, 2023.



Although both networks offer smart contracts, the potential for the aforementioned security concerns surrounding ETC will likely push investors to invest in ETH and adopt Ethereum's smart contracts versus those of Ethereum's Classic.


   Goals of Ethereum Classic  

Since the split, there have been many upgrades and improvements to the Ethereum Classic project. The goal of the project continues to be working toward becoming a global payment network using smart contracts that can function without centralized governance.



As with other cryptocurrencies, Ethereum Classic will likely continue to strive to be a digital store of value, meaning it can be saved and exchanged while retaining its value. The digital store of value for crypto includes its purchasing power that can be quickly turned into cash or used to buy another asset, similar to money.



The comments, opinions, and analyses expressed on Investopedia are for informational purposes online. Read our warranty and liability disclaimer for more info.



Correction–April 2, 2022: This article has been edited to reflect that The DAO, not Ethereum, was hacked in 2016.
What Is Ethereum?  

At its core, Ethereum is a decentralized global software platform powered by blockchain technology. It is most commonly known for its native cryptocurrency, ether (ETH).



Ethereum can be used by anyone to create any secured digital technology. It has a token designed to pay for work done supporting the blockchain, but participants can also use it to pay for tangible goods and services if accepted.



Ethereum is designed to be scalable, programmable, secure, and decentralized. It is the blockchain of choice for developers and enterprises creating technology based upon it to change how many industries operate and how we go about our daily lives.



It natively supports smart contracts, an essential tool behind decentralized applications. Many decentralized finance (DeFi) and other applications use smart contracts in conjunction with blockchain technology.



Learn more about Ethereum, its token ETH, and how they are an integral part of non-fungible tokens, decentralized finance, decentralized autonomous organizations, and the metaverse.





Key Takeaways


Ethereum is a blockchain-based platform best known for its cryptocurrency, ether (ETH).
The blockchain technology that powers Ethereum enables secure digital ledgers to be publicly created and maintained.
Bitcoin and Ethereum have many similarities but different long-term visions and limitations.
Ethereum changed from proof of work to proof of stake in Septemeber 2022.
Ethereum is the foundation for many emerging technological advances based on blockchain.













Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   How Does Ethereum Work?  

Vitalik Buterin, credited with conceiving Ethereum, published a white paper to introduce it in 2014. The Ethereum platform was launched in 2015 by Buterin and Joe Lubin, founder of the blockchain software company ConsenSys.



The founders of Ethereum were among the first to consider the full potential of blockchain technology beyond just enabling the secure virtual payment method.



Since the launch of Ethereum, ether as a cryptocurrency has risen to become the second-largest cryptocurrency by market value. It is outranked only by Bitcoin.


  Blockchain Technology  

Ethereum and other Ethereum-based products, like other cryptocurrencies, involve blockchain technology. Imagine a very long chain of blocks. All of the information contained in each block is added to every newly created block with new data. Throughout the network, an identical copy of the blockchain is distributed.



This blockchain is validated by a network of automated programs that reach a consensus on the validity of transaction information. No changes can be made to the blockchain unless the network reaches a consensus. This makes it very secure.



Consensus is reached using an algorithm commonly called a consensus mechanism. Ethereum uses the proof-of-stake algorithm, where a network of participants called validators creates new blocks and works together to verify the information they contain. The blocks contain information about the state of the blockchain, a list of attestations (a validator's signature and vote on the validity of the block), transactions, and much more.






In mid-September 2022, Ethereum officially switched over to a proof-of-stake algorithm, which is cheaper and more environmentally friendly than a proof-of-work model.


  Proof-of-Stake Mechanism  

Proof-of-stake differs from proof-of-work in that it doesn't require the energy-intensive computing referred to as mining to validate blocks. It uses a finalization protocol called Casper-FFG and the algorithm LMD Ghost, combined into a consensus mechanism called Gasper, which monitors consensus and defines how validators receive rewards for work or are punished for dishonesty.



Solo validators must stake 32 ETH to activate their validation ability. Individuals can stake smaller amounts of ETH, but they are required to join a validation pool and share any rewards. A validator creates a new block and attests that the information is valid in a process called attestation, where the block is broadcast to other validators called a committee who verify it and vote for its validity.



Validators who act dishonestly are punished under proof-of-stake. Validators who attempt to attack the network are identified by Gasper, which identifies the blocks to accept and reject based on the votes of the validators.



Dishonest validators are punished by having their staked ETH burned and being removed from the network. Burning refers to sending crypto to a wallet that has no keys, which takes them out of circulation.


  Wallets  

Ethereum owners use wallets to store their ether. A wallet is a digital interface that lets you access your ether stored on the blockchain. Your wallet has an address, which is similar to an email address in that it is where users send ether, much like they would an email.



Ether is not actually stored in your wallet. Your wallet holds private keys you use as you would a password when you initiate a transaction. You receive a private key for each ether you own. This key is essential for accessing your ether. That's why you hear so much about securing keys using different storage methods.


  Historic Split  

One notable event in Ethereum’s history is the hard fork, or split, of Ethereum and Ethereum Classic. In 2016, a group of network participants gained majority control of the Ethereum blockchain to steal more than $50 million worth of ether, which had been raised for a project called The DAO.



The raid's success was attributed to the involvement of a third-party developer for the new project. Most of the Ethereum community opted to reverse the theft by invalidating the existing Ethereum blockchain and approving a blockchain with a revised history.



However, a fraction of the community chose to maintain the original version of the Ethereum blockchain. That unaltered version of Ethereum permanently split to become the cryptocurrency Ethereum Classic (ETC).


   Ethereum vs. Bitcoin  

Ethereum is often compared to Bitcoin. While the two cryptocurrencies have many similarities, there are some some important distinctions.



Ethereum is described by founders and developers as “the world’s programmable blockchain,” positioning itself as an electronic, programmable network with many applications. The Bitcoin blockchain, by contrast, was created only to support the bitcoin cryptocurrency.






The Ethereum platform was founded with broad ambitions to leverage blockchain technology for many diverse applications. Bitcoin was designed strictly as a payment method.



The maximum number of bitcoins that can enter circulation is 21 million. The amount of ETH that can be created is unlimited, although the time it takes to process a block of ETH limits how much ether can be minted each year. The number of Ethereum coins in circulation is more than 122 million.



Another significant difference between Ethereum and Bitcoin is how the respective networks treat transaction processing fees. These fees, known as gas on the Ethereum network, are paid by the participants in Ethereum transactions. The fees associated with Bitcoin transactions are absorbed by the broader Bitcoin network.



Ethereum, as of September 2022, uses a proof-of-stake consensus mechanism. Bitcoin uses the energy-intensive proof-of-work consensus, which requires miners to compete for rewards.


   The Future of Ethereum  

Ethereum’s transition to the proof-of-stake protocol, which enables users to validate transactions and mint new ETH based on their ether holdings, is part of a significant upgrade to the Ethereum platform. Previously called Eth2, this upgrade is now referred to only as Ethereum. However, Ethereum now has two layers. The first layer is the execution layer, where transactions and validations occur. The second layer is the consensus layer, where attestations and the consensus chain is maintained.



The upgrade added capacity to the Ethereum network to support its growth, which will eventually help to address chronic network congestion problems that have driven up gas fees.



To address scalability, Ethereum is continuing development of "sharding." Sharding will divide the Ethereum database amongst its network. This idea is similar to cloud computing, where many computers handle the workload to reduce computational time. These smaller database sections will be called shards, and shards will be worked on by those who have staked ETH. Shards will allow more validators to work at the same time, reducing the amount of time needed to reach consensus through a process called sharding consensus.



Sharding is expected to be implemented sometime in 2023.





Web3

Web3 is still a concept, but it is generally theorized that it will be powered by Ethereum because many of the applications being developed use it.


  Use in Gaming  

Ethereum is also being implemented into gaming and virtual reality. Decentraland is a virtual world that uses the Ethereum blockchain to secure items contained within that world. Land, avatars, wearables, buildings, and environments are all tokenized through the blockchain to create ownership.



Axie Infinity is another game that uses blockchain technology and has its own cryptocurrency called Smooth Love Potion (SLP), used for rewards and transactions within the game.


  Non-Fungible Tokens  

Non-fungible tokens (NFTs) gained popularity in 2021. NFTs are tokenized digital items created using Ethereum. Generally speaking, tokenization gives one digital asset a specific digital token that identifies it and stores it on the blockchain.



This establishes ownership because the encrypted data stores the owner's wallet address. The NFT can be traded or sold and is viewed as a transaction on the blockchain. The transaction is verified by the network and ownership is transferred.



NFTs are being developed for all sorts of assets. For example, sports fans can buy a sports token—also called fan tokens—of their favorite athletes, which can be treated like trading cards. Some of these NFTs are pictures that resemble a trading card, and some of them are videos of a memorable or historic moment in the athlete's career.






The applications you may use in the metaverse, such as your wallet, a dApp, or the virtual world and buildings you visit, are likely to have been built on Ethereum.


  The Development of DAOs  

Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs), which are a collaborative method for making decisions across a distributed network, are being developed.



For example, imagine that you created a venture capital fund and raised money through fund-raising, but you want decision-making to be decentralized and distributions to be automatic and transparent.



A DAO could use smart contracts and applications to gather the votes from the fund members and buy into ventures based on the majority of the group's votes, then automatically distribute any returns. The transactions could be viewed by all parties, and there would be no third-party involvement in handling any funds.



The part that cryptocurrency will play in the future is still vague. However, Ethereum appears to have a significant, upcoming role in personal and corporate finance and many aspects of our modern lives.




How Can I Buy Ethereum?
Investors can use one of many cryptocurrency exchange platforms to buy and sell ether. Ethereum is supported by dedicated crypto exchanges, including Coinbase, Kraken, Gemini, Binance, and brokerages like Robinhood.




How Does Ethereum Make Money?
Ethereum is not a centralized organization that makes money. Validators who participate in the Ethereum network earn ETH rewards for their contributions.




Is Ethereum a Good Investment?
As with any investment, the answer to that depends on your financial objectives, goals, and risk tolerance. The cryptocurrency ETH can be volatile, putting capital at risk. However, it is certainly worth researching as an investment because the various existing and emerging innovative technologies that use Ethereum may assume larger roles in our society in the future.




Is Ethereum a Cryptocurrency?
The Ethereum platform has a native cryptocurrency, known as ether, or ETH. Ethereum itself is a blockchain technology platform that supports a wide range of decentralized applications (dApps), including cryptocurrencies. The ETH coin is commonly called Ethereum, although the distinction remains that Ethereum is a blockchain-powered platform, and ether is its cryptocurrency.




Can Ethereum Be Converted to Cash?
Yes. Investors who hold the cryptocurrency ETH can use online exchanges such as Coinbase, Kraken, and Gemini for this process. Just set up an account at the exchange, link a bank account, and send ETH to the exchange account from an Ethereum wallet. Place an order on the exchange to sell ETH. Then, once sold, transfer the U.S. dollar proceeds to the linked bank account.



Investing in cryptocurrencies and initial coin offerings (ICOs) is highly risky and speculative, and this article is not a recommendation by Investopedia or the writer to invest in cryptocurrencies or ICOs. Since each individual’s situation is unique, a qualified professional should always be consulted before making any financial decisions. Investopedia makes no representations or warranties as to the accuracy or timeliness of the information contained herein.
What Is Ethical Investing?  

Ethical investing refers to the practice of using one’s ethical principles as the primary filter for the selection of securities investing. Ethical investing depends on the investor’s views. Ethical investing is sometimes used interchangeably with socially conscious investing; however, socially conscious funds typically have one overarching set of guidelines that are used to select the portfolio, whereas ethical investing brings about a more personalized result.





Key Takeaways

Ethical investing is the practice of selecting investments based on ethical or moral principles.Selecting investments based on ethics offers no guarantee of performance.Ethical investors typically avoid investments from sin stocks, which are companies involved with stigmatized activities, such as gambling, alcohol, smoking, or firearms.Analyzing investments according to ethics should also include reviewing whether the company’s actions align with its commitment to ethics and its historical, current, and projected performance.


   Understanding Ethical Investing  

Ethical investing gives the individual the power to allocate capital toward companies whose practices and values align with their personal beliefs. Some beliefs are rooted in environmental, religious, or political precepts. Some investors may choose to eliminate specific industries or over-allocate to other sectors that meet the individual’s ethical guidelines.



For example, some ethical investors avoid sin stocks, which are companies that are involved or primarily deal with traditionally unethical or immoral activities, such as gambling, alcohol, or firearms. Choosing an investment based on ethical preferences is not indicative of the investment’s performance.



To begin, investors should carefully examine and document which investments to avoid and which are of interest. Research is essential for accurately determining whether an investment or group of investments coincides with one’s ethics, especially when investing in an index or mutual fund. 


   History of Ethical Investing  

Often, religion influences ethical investing. When religion is the motivation, industries with operations and practices that oppose the religion’s tenets are avoided. The earliest recorded instance of ethical investing in America was by the 18th century Quakers, who restricted members from spending their time or money in the slave trade.



During the same era, John Wesley, a founder of Methodism, preached the importance of refraining from investing in industries that harm one’s neighbor, such as chemical plants. Another example of a religious-based ethical investing regime is seen in Islamic banking, which shuns investments in alcohol, gambling, pork, and other forbidden items.






The Amana Mutual Funds Trust offers investment products adhering to Islamic banking principles, such as prohibiting gambling (Maisir), paying or charging interest (riba), and charging more money for late payments (murâbaḥah).



In the 20th century, ethical investing gained traction based on people’s social views more than their religious views. Ethical investments tend to mirror the political climate and social trends of the time. In the United States in the 1960s and ’70s, ethical investors focused on those companies and organizations that promoted equality and rights for workers and shunned those that supported or profited from the Vietnam War.



Starting in the 1990s, ethical investments began to focus heavily on environmental issues. Ethical investors moved away from coal and fossil fuel companies and toward those that supported clean and sustainable energy. Today, ethical investing continues to primarily focus on impacts on the environment and society.


   How to Invest Ethically  

In addition to analyzing investments using ethical standards, the historical, current, and projected performance of the investment should be scrutinized. To examine whether the investment is sound and has the potential to reap significant returns, the review of a company’s history and finances is warranted. It is also important to confirm the company’s commitment to ethical practices.



A company’s mission statement may mirror the values and beliefs of an investor, yet their practices may be contrary to them. Consider Enron, which published and distributed a 64-page code of ethics document to employees, highlighting their commitment to integrity and ethics. Indeed, it was proven that they not only did not adhere to their policies but also violated a host of laws.
What Is the Euro?  

The euro is the official currency of the European Union (EU), adopted by 19 of its 27 member nations. It is the world's second most popular reserve currency after the U.S. dollar, and the second most traded.





Key Takeaways

The euro is the official currency of the European Union (EU), adopted by 19 of the EU's 27 member nations.It is the world's second most widely held and traded currency after the U.S. dollar.The euro remains overwhelmingly popular in the countries using it for its role in easing European trade and travel and promoting political integration of the EU.Adoption of a common currency without the stabilizing features of a fiscal union was a major cause of the European sovereign debt crisis, forcing the EU to deepen its economic and political integration.


   Understanding the Euro  

Launched in 1999 as part of the EU's integration as the European Economic and Monetary Union (EMU), the euro was strictly an electronic currency until the introduction of paper notes and coins denominated in euros in 2002. The euro is sometimes abbreviated as "EUR."



The euro is the sole legal tender in the EU member states that have adopted it, including Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, and Spain. These countries form the eurozone, a region where the euro serves as the common currency. Four small non-EU nations (Andorra, Vatican City, San Marino, and Monaco) also use the euro as their official currency and several countries have currencies pegged to the euro.



The European Central Bank (ECB) has an EU mandate to maintain price stability by preserving the value of the euro. The ECB is part of the European System of Central Banks (ESCB) along with the national central banks of all the EU member states, including those that have not adopted the euro.



Adopting the euro eliminated foreign exchange risk for European businesses and financial institutions with cross-border operations in the increasingly integrated EU economy. The fiscal and monetary prerequisites for adopting the euro have also encouraged deeper political integration of member states.



On the other hand, the eurozone brought together economies with disparate characteristics and national budgets without the authority for the sort of cross-border fiscal transfers that take place between the U.S. federal government and U.S. states.



That has forced the EU to introduce measures like ECB guarantees for the debt issued by member states in response to market turmoil caused by the European sovereign debt crisis. National governments and central banks remain constrained in responding to economic conditions in their country by their reliance on the ECB's monetary policy and budget rules set by the EU.



For example, the central bank of a country experiencing an economic slowdown can no longer cut interest rates, devaluing a national currency against that of its major European trading partners to stimulate exports.



While the euro can't be devalued to facilitate economic adjustments within the EU, that's also made the common currency a more reliable store of value. The euro remains overwhelmingly popular among the residents of the countries that have adopted it.
What Is the Euro Interbank Offer Rate (Euribor)?  

Euribor, or the Euro Interbank Offer Rate, is a reference rate that is constructed from the average interest rate at which eurozone banks offer unsecured short-term lending on the inter-bank market. The maturities on loans used to calculate Euribor often range from one week to one year.



This is the benchmark rate with which banks lend or borrow excess reserves from one another over short periods of time, from one week to 12 months. These short-term loans are often structured as repurchase agreements (repos) and are intended to maintain bank liquidity and to make sure that excess cash is able to generate an interest return rather than sit idle.





Key Takeaways

Euribor is an overnight interbank rate comprised of the average interest rates from a panel of large European banks that are used for lending to one another in euros.Euribor has various maturities in which each maturity has its own interest rate.Euribor is calculated by a benchmark administrator called Global Rate Set Systems Ltd. and offered by the European Money Markets Institute (EMMI).


   Understanding the Euro Interbank Offer Rate (Euribor)  

The Euro Interbank Offer Rate (Euribor) in fact refers to a set of five money market rates corresponding to different maturities: the one-week, one-month, three-month, six-month, and twelve-month rates. These rates, which are updated daily, represent the average interest rate that eurozone banks charge each other for uncollateralized loans.



Euribor rates are an important benchmark for a range of euro-denominated financial products, including mortgages, savings accounts, car loans, and various derivatives securities. Euribor's role in the eurozone is analogous to LIBOR in Britain and the United States.






   Who Contributes to the Euribor Rate?  

There are 19 panel banks that contribute to Euribor. These are the financial institutions that handle the largest volume of eurozone money market transactions. As of May 2023, these panel banks include:



Raiffeisen Bank International AG (Austria)Belfius (Belgium)Barclays (Britain)BNP Paribas (France)Crédit Agricole s.a. (France)HSBC France (France)Natixis / BPCE (France)Société Générale (France)Deutsche Bank (Germany)DZ Bank (Germany)Intesa Sanpaolo (Italy)UniCredit (Italy)Banque et Caisse d'Épargne de l'État (Luxembourg)ING Bank (Netherlands)Caixa Geral De Depósitos (Portugal)Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria (Spain)Banco Santander (Spain)CECABANK (Spain)CaixaBank (Spain)


   The Difference Between Euribor and Eonia  

Eonia, or the Euro Overnight Index Average, is also a daily reference rate that expresses the weighted average of unsecured overnight interbank lending in the European Union and the European Free Trade Association (EFTA). It is calculated by the European Central Bank (ECB) based on the loans made by 28 panel banks.



Eonia is similar to Euribor as a rate used in European interbank lending. Both benchmarks are offered by the European Money Markets Institute (EMMI). The main difference between Eonia and Euribor is the maturities of the loans they are based on. Eonia is an overnight rate, while Euribor is actually eight different rates based on loans with maturities varying from one week to 12 months.



The panel banks that contribute to the rates are also different: only 19 banks contribute to Euribor, instead of 28. Finally, Euribor is calculated by Global Rate Set Systems Ltd., not the ECB.
What Is Euro Medium Term Note - EMTN?  

A euro medium-term note is a medium-term, flexible debt instrument that is traded and issued outside of the United States and Canada.





Key Takeaways

A euro medium-term note (EMTN) is a medium-term, flexible debt security that is issued and traded outside of the United States and Canada.EMTNs have become a significant funding source for U.S. and foreign companies, multinational institutions, federal agencies, and sovereign nations.EMTNs offer diversity as companies can issue them in a wide range of currencies and with various maturities.


   Understanding Euro Medium Term Note - EMTN  

EMTNs instruments require fixed payments and are directly issued to the market with maturities that are less than five years. EMTNs allow an issuer to enter the foreign markets more easily to obtain capital. Firms also offer EMTNs continuously, whereas a bond issue, for example, occurs all at once.



EMTN issuers must maintain a standardized document known as a program. The program can be transferred across all issues and has a high proportion of sales through predetermined syndication of buyers. Medium-term notes (MTNs)—notes that bear the same definition as EMTNs, but trade within the United States and Canada—must maintain a different program.



Over the past 10 to 15 years, medium-term notes have emerged as a significant funding source for U.S. and foreign companies, supranational institutions, federal agencies, and sovereign nations. The United States has been issuing MTNs since the beginning of the 1970s after introducing the debt instruments as an alternative to short-term financing in the commercial paper market and long-term borrowing in the bond market. They named these instruments "medium-term" because they serve the middle ground.﻿﻿﻿



MTNs did not gain much momentum until the 1980s when the MTN market shifted from an obscure corner of the market—heavily exploited by auto finance companies—to a fundamental source of debt financing for hundreds of major corporations. Outside the United States, the EMTN market has grown phenomenally and continues to attract new and booming businesses and industries.



EMTNs offer diversity as companies can issue them in a wide range of currencies and with various maturities, typically, up to 30 years although some may have a much longer maturity. Firms can issue EMTNs in collateralized, floating rate (FRN), amortizing, and credit-supported forms. Single issues from an EMTN program are comparable to a Eurobond or a Euro note.



International Security Identification Numbers (ISINs) and common codes are 12-digit security identification numbers.﻿﻿﻿ For EMTNs, a specific type of ISIN code is required. The agent of the EMTN program would normally obtain the ISIN numbers and common codes for the relevant EMTN notes on behalf of the issuer. 


   Euro Medium Term Note - EMTN Benefits  

The diversity and flexibility EMTNs offer are two of their many benefits. Another benefit is savings. Fixed costs for underwriting make it impractical for corporate bonds to make small offerings; therefore, bonds typically amount to more than $100 million. Conversely, drawdowns from EMTN programs—over one month—typically amount to $30 million. These drawdowns often have varying maturities and specialized features tailored to meet the borrower's needs.


   Euro Medium Term Note - EMTN Example  

One example of an EMTN program is that of Telenor; the program was established in 1996.﻿﻿﻿ This EMTN program is updated annually and constitutes a standardized master agreement for the issuance of bonds, including private placements and public benchmark bonds.
What Is the Euro Overnight Index Average (EONIA)?  

The Euro Overnight Index Average (EONIA) is the average overnight reference rate for which European banks lend to one another in euros. The EONIA is the interest rate for one-day loans between European banks and is considered an interbank rate. However, European regulatory reforms resulted in the EONIA rate being replaced by the ESTER (Euro Short-Term Rate) effective January 2022.





Key Takeaways

The Euro Overnight Index Average (EONIA) is the average overnight reference rate for which European banks lend to one another in euros.The EONIA is the interest rate for one-day loans between European banks.The Euro Overnight Index Average is calculated by the European Central Bank (ECB) based on the loans made by 28 panel banks.Due to European regulatory reforms, EONIA was replaced in 2022 with a more comprehensive benchmark called ESTER.


   How the Euro Overnight Index Average Works  

EONIA is a daily reference rate that expresses the weighted average of unsecured overnight interbank lending in the European Union and the European Free Trade Association (EFTA). It is calculated by the European Central Bank (ECB) based on the loans made by 28 panel banks. 



Banks must meet certain reserve requirements that are typically set by the central bank. A reserve is the amount or percentage of total deposits that a bank must keep on hand and not lend out. A reserve requirement helps protect banks so that they have enough cash or liquidity in case of loan losses. However, banks can experience short-term cash flow shortages at the end of a business day, such as when there are unexpected cash withdrawals. As a result, the banks that are short on cash can borrow from other banks that have cash flow surpluses. The rate that banks borrow from each other is called the overnight rate.



In Europe, EONIA represents the average overnight rate of 28 of the most established banks called panel banks.


   EONIA vs. EURIBOR  

EONIA is similar to EURIBOR, which is short for Euro Interbank Offered Rate. EURIBOR is also an interbank rate and is comprised of the average interest rates from large European banks that are used for lending to one another. However, EURIBOR has various maturities in which each maturity has its own interest rate.



Both benchmarks are offered by the European Money Markets Institute (EMMI), which is a non-profit organization founded in 1999. However, EURIBOR is calculated by a benchmark administrator called Global Rate Set Systems Ltd., and not by the ECB.



The key difference between EONIA and EURIBOR is the maturities of the loans upon which they are based. EONIA is an overnight rate, while EURIBOR has five interest rates based on loans with maturities that range from one week to 12 months. Also, EURIBOR has 18 banks that contribute to the rates while EONIA has 28 panel banks.



EURIBOR is important since it is the benchmark rate used by banks when determining the interest rate for various financial products, including mortgage loans and savings accounts.


   ESTER  

In 2018, the ECB formed a working group to help establish a new benchmark rate for Europe. Historically, bank scandals have occurred using quote-based interest rates as benchmarks. As a result, banking reforms led to ESTER or "€STER," which is short for Euro Short Term Rate, replacing EONIA.



ESTER is also an overnight interest rate but represents an average of the wholesale rates in Europe. These wholesale rates are typically used with banks and institutional investors such as pension funds. One of the key reasons for the switch to ESTER is that there will be more banks contributing to the average ESTER rate than currently with EONIA.
What Is a Eurobond?  

A Eurobond is a debt instrument that's denominated in a currency other than the home currency of the country or market in which it is issued. Eurobonds are frequently grouped together by the currency in which they are denominated, such as eurodollar or Euro-yen bonds. Since Eurobonds are issued in an external currency, they're often called external bonds. Eurobonds are important because they help organizations raise capital while having the flexibility to issue them in another currency.



Issuance of Eurobonds is usually handled by an international syndicate of financial institutions on behalf of the borrower, one of which may underwrite the bond, thus guaranteeing the purchase of the entire issue.





Key Takeaways

A Eurobond is a debt instrument that's denominated in a currency other than the home currency of the country or market in which it is issued.Eurobonds are important because they help organizations raise capital while having the flexibility to issue them in another currency.Eurobond refers only to the fact the bond is issued outside of the borders of the currency's home country; it doesn't mean the bond was issued in Europe. 












Investopedia / Ryan Oakley


   Understanding Eurobonds  

The popularity of Eurobonds as a financing tool reflects their high degree of flexibility as they offer issuers the ability to choose the country of issuance based on the regulatory landscape, interest rates, and depth of the market. They are also attractive to investors because they usually have small par values or face values providing a low-cost investment. Eurobonds also have high liquidity, meaning they can be bought and sold easily.



The term Eurobond refers only to the fact the bond is issued outside of the borders of the currency's home country; it does not mean the bond was issued in Europe or denominated in the euro currency. For example, a company can issue a Eurobond denominated in U.S. dollars in Japan.


   Background  

The first Eurobond was issued in 1963 by Autostrade, the company that ran Italy's national railroads. It was a $15 million eurodollar bond designed by bankers in London, issued at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol and paid in Luxembourg to reduce taxes. It provided European investors with a safe, dollar-denominated investment.



Issuers run the gamut from multinational corporations to sovereign governments and supranational organizations. The size of a single bond issuance can be well over a billion dollars, and maturities are between five and 30 years, although the largest portion has a maturity of fewer than 10 years. Eurobonds are especially attractive to issuers based in countries that do not have a large capital market while offering diversification to investors.


   Delivery  

The earliest Eurobonds were physically delivered to investors. They are issued electronically through a range of services, including the Depository Trust Company (DTC) in the United States and the Certificateless Registry for Electronic Share Transfer (CREST) in the United Kingdom. Eurobonds are usually issued in bearer form, which makes it easier for investors to avoid regulations and taxes. Bearer form means the bond isn't registered and as a result, there's no record of ownership. Instead, physical possession of the bond is the only evidence of ownership. 


   Market Size  

The global bond market totals over $100 trillion in outstanding debt. The fact many Eurobonds are unregistered, and trade-in bearer form makes definitive numbers for the sector impossible to obtain, but it is likely they account for about 30% of the total. A growing portion of Eurobond issuance is from emerging market nations, with both governments and companies seeking deeper and more developed markets in which to borrow.
What Is Euroclear?  

Euroclear is one of two principal securities clearing houses in the Eurozone. Euroclear specializes in verifying information supplied by brokers involved in a securities transaction and the settlement of securities transacted on European exchanges.



The other principal European clearing house is Clearstream, formerly the Centrale de Livraison de Valeurs Mobilières (CEDEL).





Key Takeaways

Euroclear is a major clearinghouse that settles and clears securities trades executed on European exchanges.Euroclear also functions as a central securities depository, where it is a custodian for major financial institutions involved in European markets.In addition to stock trades, Euroclear also handles orders in fixed income securities and derivatives.


   How Euroclear Works  

Euroclear is one the oldest settlement systems and was originally subsidized by Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, which was a part of J.P. Morgan & Co. It was founded in 1968 to settle trades on the then-developing Eurobond market. Its computerized settlement and deposit system helped ensure the safe delivery and payment of Eurobonds. In 2000, Morgan Guaranty Trust transferred these activities to Euroclear Bank.



Euroclear is publicly owned and governed. Between 2001 and 2007, the firm acquired Sivocam, the central securities depository (CSD) of France, CIK and Necigef, the CSDs of Belgium and the Netherlands, and CrestCo, the CSD for Irish equities and all U.K. securities.



A clearinghouse is a financial institution that acts as an intermediary between buyers and sellers of financial instruments. They take the opposite position of each side of a trade, acting as the buyer to the seller and the seller to the buyer.



For example, if Wendy and Nathan enter into a transaction in which Wendy agrees to sell 100 shares of AMZN to Nathan for $1,180 per share, Nathan will have to pay $1,180 x 100 shares = $118,000. The clearinghouse credits Nathan’s account with 100 AMZN shares and deposits $118,000 to Wendy’s account. Clearinghouses, thus, ensure that the financial markets operate smoothly and efficiently. One of the world’s largest clearinghouses is Euroclear.


   Understanding Euroclear  

Euroclear acts as a central securities depository (CSD) for its clients, many of whom trade on European exchanges. Most of its clients consist of banks, broker-dealers, and other institutions professionally engaged in managing new issues of securities, market-making, trading, or holding a wide variety of securities.



Euroclear settles domestic and international securities transactions, covering bonds, equities, derivatives, and investment funds. Over 190,000 national and international securities are accepted in the Euroclear system, covering a broad range of internationally traded fixed and floating rate debt instruments, convertibles, warrants, and equities.


   CSD, Delivery, and Payment  

In addition to its role as an International Central Securities Depository (ICSD), Euroclear also acts as the Central Securities Depository (CSD) for Belgian, Dutch, Finnish, French, Irish, Swedish, and UK securities.



A CSD is a financial institution that holds securities, such as bonds and shares, and provides for the safekeeping of these assets. A CSD also allows for the settlement of securities transactions. A transaction is settled once the buyer’s account has been credited with the purchased shares and debited the agreed cash amount, and the seller’s account has been debited the shares and credited the sales amount. The credit and debit movements occur simultaneously through a process known as delivery versus payment (DVP).



Transactions between Euroclear participants are settled in the manner described above on a DVP basis on the books of Euroclear. Securities and cash transfers between buyer and seller accounts are final and irrevocable upon settlement. Costs and risks involved in the settlement between Euroclear participants and local market participants are heavily influenced by local market practices.



Trades settling through domestic market links settle on a DVP basis only if DVP is provided in the local market. In the same way, settlement in the Euroclear System becomes final and irrevocable in line with the rules of the domestic market. As a rule, Euroclear Bank credits securities to participants only if it has actually received the securities for the account of such participants.



All securities accepted by Euroclear are eligible for securities lending and borrowing except those that are limited by liquidity, fiscal, or legal restrictions. Standard borrowings are allocated whenever a borrower has insufficient securities in its account to make a delivery, provided sufficient securities are available from lending.



Borrowings are reimbursed on the first overnight settlement process where securities are available in the borrower’s account. In the program, all securities made available by lenders are aggregated in a lending pool. Securities are then distributed to borrowers and loans are allocated among lenders according to standard procedures.
What Is Eurocurrency?  

Eurocurrency is currency held on deposit by governments or corporations operating outside of their home market. For example, a deposit of U.S. dollars (USD) held in a British bank would be considered eurocurrency, as would a deposit of British Pounds (GBP) made in the United States.





Key Takeaways

The term eurocurrency refers to currency deposits held at banks outside of their country of origin.The most famous example of eurocurrency is the eurodollar, which involves U.S. dollar (USD) deposits held outside the United States.Eurocurrency has become an extremely important facet of the global financial system, due to factors such as globalization and financial regulations.


   Understanding Eurocurrency  

The term “eurocurrency” applies to any currency deposit held outside of the home market in which that currency is issued. Importantly, despite its name, it does not necessarily need to involve European currencies. For instance, South Korean won (KPW) deposited at a bank in South Africa would be considered eurocurrency, even if no European currency is involved.



Eurocurrency is an important part of the global financial system. Since globalization has led to a sharp rise in cross-border transactions in recent decades, many banks find themselves needing to access deposits of local currency in different regions throughout the world. This has led to a large and active eurocurrency market, in which international banks regularly exchange and lend foreign currencies with one-another out of their eurocurrency deposits.



In addition to the rise of international transactions, another explanation for the use of eurocurrency throughout the world concerns regulation. For many banks, borrowing from other banks through the eurocurrency market can be a faster and more efficient way to access short-term financing as compared to finding alternative sources of funding within their home market. 


   Real World Example of Eurocurrency  

The most prominent example of a eurocurrency market are the USD-denominated time deposits held at banks outside the United States. Colloquially referred to as “eurodollars”, these deposits have become an integral part of the global financial system as a source of short-term USD funding for financial firms throughout the world. 



Since the USD is the world’s reserve currency, virtually all multinational corporations, banks, and governments require large quantities of USD in order to satisfy their routine financial obligations. Often, these firms rely on the eurodollar market to satisfy these short-term funding needs. Although it is difficult to obtain reliable estimates of the size of the eurodollar market, recent estimates have placed it at nearly $14 trillion.
What Is the Eurocurrency Market?  

The eurocurrency market is the money market for currency outside of the country where it is legal tender. The eurocurrency market is utilized by banks, multinational corporations, mutual funds, and hedge funds. They wish to circumvent regulatory requirements, tax laws, and interest rate caps often present in domestic banking, particularly in the United States.



The term eurocurrency is a generalization of eurodollar and should not be confused with the EU currency, the euro. The eurocurrency market functions in many financial centers around the world, not just Europe.





Key Takeaways

The eurocurrency market is the money market for currency outside of the country where it is legal tender.The term eurocurrency is a generalization of eurodollar and should not be confused with the EU currency, the euro.There is also a eurobond market for countries, companies, and financial institutions to borrow in currencies outside of their domestic market.Eurocurrency markets can offer better rates for both borrowers and lenders, but they also have higher risks.


   Understanding the Eurocurrency Market  

The eurocurrency market originated in the aftermath of World War II when the Marshall Plan to rebuild Europe sent a flood of dollars overseas. The market developed first in London, as banks needed a market for dollar deposits outside the United States. Dollars held outside the United States are called eurodollars, even if they are held in markets outside Europe, such as Singapore or the Cayman Islands.






There is not necessarily any connection between eurocurrency markets and Europe today, although these markets did begin in Europe.



The eurocurrency market has expanded to include other currencies, such as the Japanese yen and the British pound, whenever they trade outside of their home markets. However, the eurodollar market remains the largest.



Interest rates paid on deposits in the eurocurrency market are typically higher than in the domestic market. That is because the depositor is not protected by the same national banking laws and does not have governmental deposit insurance. Rates on eurocurrency loans are typically lower than those in the domestic market for essentially the same reasons. Eurocurrency bank accounts are also not subject to the same reserve requirements as domestic accounts.


   Types of Eurocurrency Markets  
  Eurodollar  

Eurodollars were the first eurocurrency, and they still have the most influence. It is worth noting that U.S. banks can have overseas operations dealing in eurodollars. These subsidiaries are often registered in the Caribbean. However, the majority of actual trading takes place in the United States.



The eurodollar trades mostly overnight, although deposits and loans out to 12 months are possible. Transactions are usually for a minimum of $25 million and can top $1 billion in a single deposit.


  Euroyen  

The offshore euroyen market was established in the 1980s and expanded with Japan's economic influence. As interest rates declined in Japan during the 1990s, the higher rates paid by euroyen accounts became more attractive.


  Eurobond  

There is an active bond market for countries, companies, and financial institutions to borrow in currencies outside of their domestic markets. The first such eurobond was issued by the Italian company Autostrade in 1963. It borrowed $15 million for 15 years in a deal arranged in London and listed on the Luxembourg stock exchange. Issuing eurobonds remained popular in Italy, and the Italian government sold US$7 billion in eurobonds in October 2019. It is essential to avoid confusing eurobonds with euro bonds, which are simply bonds denominated in euros issued by countries or firms in the eurozone.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Eurocurrency Markets  

The main benefit of eurocurrency markets is that they are more competitive. They can simultaneously offer lower interest rates for borrowers and higher interest rates for lenders. That is mostly because eurocurrency markets are less regulated. On the downside, eurocurrency markets face higher risks, particularly during a run on the banks.
What Is the Eurodollar?  

The term eurodollar refers to U.S. dollar-denominated deposits at foreign banks or at the overseas branches of American banks. Because they are held outside the United States, eurodollars are not subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve Board, including reserve requirements. Dollar-denominated deposits not subject to U.S. banking regulations were originally held almost exclusively in Europe (hence, the name eurodollar). Now, they are also widely held in branches located in the Bahamas and the Cayman Islands.





Key Takeaways

Eurodollars refer to dollar-denominated accounts at foreign banks or overseas branches of American banks.The eurodollar market is one of the world's biggest capital markets and consists of sophisticated financial instruments.


   Understanding the Eurodollar  

The fact that the eurodollar market is relatively free of regulation means such deposits can pay higher interest. Their offshore location makes them subject to political and economic risk in the country of their domicile; however, most branches where the deposits are housed are in very stable locations.



The eurodollar market is one of the world's primary international capital markets. They require a steady supply of depositors putting their money into foreign banks. These eurodollar banks may have problems with their liquidity if the supply of deposits drops. 



Deposits from overnight out to a week are priced based on the fed funds rate. Prices for longer maturities are based on the corresponding London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). Eurodollar deposits are quite large; they are made by professional counterparties for a minimum of $100,000 and generally for more than $5 million. It is not uncommon for a bank to accept a single deposit of $500 million or more in the overnight market. A 2014 study by the Federal Reserve Bank showed an average daily volume in the market of $140 billion.



Most transactions in the eurodollar market are overnight, which means they mature on the next business day. With weekends and holidays, an overnight transaction can take as long as four days. The transactions usually start on the same day they are executed, with money paid between banks via the Fedwire and CHIPS systems. Eurodollar transactions with maturities greater than six months are usually done as certificates of deposit (CDs), for which there is also a limited secondary market.


   History of the Eurodollar  

The eurodollar market dates back to the period after World War II. Much of Europe was devastated by the war, and the United States provided funds via the Marshall Plan to rebuild the continent. This led to wide circulation of dollars overseas, and the development of a separate, less regulated market for the deposit of those funds. Unlike domestic U.S. deposits, the funds are not subject to the Federal Reserve Bank's reserve requirements. They are also not covered by FDIC insurance. This results in higher interest rates for eurodollars.



Many American banks have offshore branches, usually in the Caribbean, through which they accept eurodollar deposits. European banks are also active in the market. The transactions for Caribbean branches of U.S. banks are generally executed by traders physically situated in U.S. dealing rooms, and the money is on loan to fund domestic and international operations.
What Is the Euromarket?  

The term euromarket has two distinct meanings:



In finance, it is the market for eurocurrencies: these are all currencies that are held as deposits by companies or individuals outside of their country of issue.
In commerce, it refers to the single market of the European Union (EU) in which goods and services are freely traded between member countries, and which have a common trade policy with non-EU countries.





Key Takeaways

The euromarket may refer to the single market and free-trade among European Union (EU) countries.The euromarket extends beyond the Eurozone countries that use the euro currency to all countries signed on to that free trade agreement.The euromarket may also refer to the eurocurrencies market, where an institution uses money from another country, but not in the originating country's home market.


   Understanding the Euromarket  

A euromarket can be used to describe the financial market for eurocurrencies. A eurocurrency is any currency held or traded outside its country of issue. For example, a eurodollar is a dollar deposit held or traded outside the U.S. A key incentive for the development, and continued existence of such a market is that it is free from the regulatory environment (and sometimes political or other country-specific risks) of the "home" country.



The "euro-" prefix in the term arose because originally such currencies were held in Europe, but that is no longer solely the case, and a eurocurrency can now be held anywhere in the world that local banking regulations permit. The eurocurrency market is a major source of finance for international trade because of ease of convertibility and the absence of domestic restrictions on trading.


   Euromarket as the Single Market of the EU  

The term can also be used to refer to the single market of the European Union. The single market was created by the abolition of restrictions on the movement of goods and services (as well as people) between member countries of the EU. The European Commission describes the single market as "one territory without any internal borders or other regulatory obstacles to the free movement of goods and services."



The free flow of goods and services across borders makes it easier for companies to operate across countries. It is intended to improve efficiency, stimulate trade, and help growth, while also helping achieve the political objective of deeper integration between EU member countries. Note that most, but not all, members of the EU have adopted the euro as their currency, so the eurozone (which refers to the countries that have adopted the euro in a common monetary union) is not synonymous with the euromarket.



Let's look at a hypothetical example where Bank A is based in France, and Bank B is based in the United States. Bank A is planning to make some rather large loans to a client of theirs and has determined that they would be able to make more money if they borrowed money from Bank B—in US dollars—and loaned it out to their client.



Bank B makes interest from the loan they offer to Bank A, whereas Bank A profits from the difference in the loan terms between their client and the loan terms offered from Bank B. Although in theory Bank A might do this at zero cost in order to satisfy their client, it is much more often the case that they use eurocurrency as a way to take advantage of an interest-rate discrepancy.
What Is Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA)?  

Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) is a geographical grouping and an acronym widely used by global corporations to define regional business activity. It is a shorthand method to refer to the three continents and their regional areas.





Key Takeaways

Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) refer to a geographical grouping and acronym which includes the continents and regional areas. EMEA is used by global corporations to distinguish business activity from other regions like the Americas and Asia.EMEA includes subregions like SEMEA, Southern Europe Middle East and Africa, or EMENA, Europe, Middle East, and North Africa.


   Understanding Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA)  

Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) is a label that global firms use when dividing their operations by geography. EMEA is a common division used in international business, but it is not precisely defined. It may or may not include Russia or Kazakhstan, for example and European overseas territories on other continents are generally excluded.



A multinational may distinguish financial results by region, reporting sales and profits in the Americas, the EMEA region, Asia Pacific, and Japan. Leadership roles are also based on these divisions. Microsoft Corp. (MSFT), for example, has a Vice-President for EMEA.






   Corporate Use of EMEA  

EMEA is useful for operational purposes and business organization because most of the included region falls within four time zones, facilitating communication and travel. 



However, little unites the EMEA region, which includes political, economic, linguistic, and cultural diversity. Political systems range from stable democracies to autocracies and local languages included Arabic, French, Russian, and English.


   Regions of EMEA  

EMEA is often subdivided or rearranged depending on a corporation's need to distinguish a region or area. If India is included in the grouping, a company may use EMEIA or EMIA.



Companies may sometimes separate their business operations in Eastern and Western Europe, referring instead to Eastern Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EEMEA) and the European Union (EU) or European Free Trade Association (EFTA).



Nations and regions are grouped based on what is most convenient for the corporation and may also include:



Southeastern Europe, Middle East, and Africa (SEEMEA)
Southern Europe, Middle East, and Africa (SEMEA)
The Middle East and North Africa (MENA)
Central and Eastern Europe (CEE)
Central Europe, Middle East, and Africa (CEMEA)
Europe, the Middle East, and North Africa (EUMENA or EMENA)
Europe, the Middle East, Africa, and the Caribbean (EMEAC)
Europe, the Middle East, Africa, and the Commonwealth of Independent States (EMEACIS)
The Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), which refers to the group of nations around the Caspian and Black Seas
Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East, and Africa (CEMA)
North Atlantic and Central Europe (NACE)




What Is APAC?
Most countries located throughout eastern and southern Asia, those that touch the Pacific Ocean, and Oceania are usually considered APAC, or Asia Pacific, countries. There is no official definition of the Asia Pacific region and its boundaries and the list of APAC countries varies depending on the context and distinctions required by corporations.




How Is EMEA Used in Business News Reporting?
Stock market and exchange news traditionally categorize activity by region and use EMEA to distinguish financial news for that region, such as EMEA Stocks or EMEA market indexes.




What Challenges Face Corporations When Targeting All Regions in EMEA?
Some business activities, like Marketing or Advertising, can be challenging when companies target and divided business to encompass the entire EMEA region as opposed to conducting business in North America. Creating a marketing plan for EMEA means considering local laws, cultures, and holidays among different regions. Corporations also have to account for economic and political factors, local government regulation, and product fit.


   The Bottom Line  

Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) is a geographical acronym used by many multinational corporations. It is a globally accepted term and standardizes news and business activity relating to the regional areas of EMEA. Corporations often distinguish sales divisions or leadership roles as EMEA positions.
What Is the European Banking Authority (EBA)?  

The European Banking Authority (EBA) is a regulatory body that strives to maintain financial stability throughout the European Union’s (EU) banking industry. It was established in 2010 by the European Parliament, replacing the Committee of European Banking Supervisors (CEBS).





Key Takeaways

The European Banking Authority (EBA) aims to maintain financial stability in the European Union’s banking industry by conducting regular solvency checks.The EBA ensures market transparency, exerts quality control over new bank instruments, and protects investors.EBA transparency exercises involve cultivating data on a bank’s capital, profits and losses, credit risk, and other metrics.


   The Basics of the European Banking Authority (EBA)  

The EBA is tasked with developing regulatory technical standards and rules for financial firms in the EU internal market. It oversees lending institutions, investment firms, and credit institutions. The rules it imposes are designed to achieve the following objectives:



Maintain the integrity of the financial sector.Safeguard public values by ensuring market transparency.Stabilize the financial system.Monitor the quality of new instruments issued by institutions.Protect consumers, investors, and depositors.Regulate the supervision of financial institutions.



The European Central Bank (ECB) ensures that banks follow the rules set forth by the EBA, which runs annual transparency exercises and stress tests on more than 100 EU banks. This involves cultivating fiscal data on a bank’s capital, risk-weighted assets (RWA), recorded profits and losses, market risk, and credit risk. The stress tests that the EBA imposes on financial institutions seek to determine whether each institution would remain solvent in the wake of financial crises.


   Real-World Example the European Banking Authority (EBA)  

The 2016 stress test carried out on 51 banks from 15 EU and European Economic Area (EEA) countries revealed that only Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena (MPS) in Italy lacked the adequate capital reserves needed to weather a three-year economic shock.



After these results, MPS jettisoned many of its non-performing loans from its balance sheet, in a strategic effort to boost its capital levels to the required threshold.






The EBA's powers are far-reaching in that it may overrule national regulators that fall derelict in regulating their banks themselves.


   Background on the EBA  

The ECB supervises banks to ensure that they follow the rules set by the EBA, which emerged as part of the European Supervisory Authority (ESA), which also consists of the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA). The EIOPA is responsible for protecting insurance policyholders, pension members, and beneficiaries.


   The Effectiveness of Bank Operations  

The 2008 financial crisis and the European sovereign debt crisis have illuminated general shortcomings in EU banking operations. After the collapse of the U.S. mortgage bubble and Greece's revelation that its deficits were vastly larger than previously thought, Eurozone states like Portugal, Ireland, Spain, and Greece itself faced soaring debt-servicing costs. These nations consequently sought bailouts from international institutions.



Fiscal austerity measures designed to help countries exit bailout programs have slowed European economic growth. At the same time, the introduction of negative interest rates by the ECB and other central banks has squeezed banks' margins.



These factors, combined with increased regulation and poor management, have caused worries about European banking sustainability. For example, in January 2018, Italian banks were struggling under the weight of €360 billion ($410 billion) worth of non-performing loans, representing about 25% of the country's GDP. As it stands currently, Italy's debt-to-GDP ratio still remains worrisome and the outlook remains uncertain.
What is European Central Bank (ECB)?  

The European Central Bank (ECB) is the central bank responsible for monetary policy of the European Union (EU) member countries that have adopted the euro currency. This currency union is known as the eurozone and currently includes 19 countries. The ECB's primary objective is price stability in the euro area.





Key Takeaways


The European Central Bank (ECB) is the central bank of the European Union and the Eurozone currency union.
The ECB coordinates Eurozone monetary policy, including setting target interest rates and controlling the supply of the euro common currency.
The ECB's primary mandate is price stability; it targets 2% inflation over the medium term as a buffer against the risk of destabilizing deflation.
ECB decisions on monetary policy and banking supervision are made by the ECB Governing Council comprising six executive board members and a monthly rotation of national central bank governors.



   Understanding European Central Bank (ECB)  

The European Central Bank (ECB) is headquartered in Frankfurt am Main, Germany. It has been responsible for monetary policy in the Euro area since 1999, when the euro currency was first adopted by some EU members.


  ECB Structure  

The ECB Governing Council makes decisions on eurozone monetary policy, including its objectives, key interest rates and the supply of reserves in the Eurosystem comprising the ECB and national central banks of the eurozone countries. It also sets the general framework for the ECB's role in banking supervision.



The Council consists of six executive board members and a rotation of 15 national central bank governors. Instead of an annual rotation of voting rights, as for regional Federal Reserve bank presidents, the ECB rotates voting rights monthly.



Central bank governors from the top five countries by the size of their economies and banking systems—as of May 2022, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, and the Netherlands—share four voting rights, while the central banks of the other countries vote only slightly less frequently at 11 months out of every 14.


  ECB Mandate  

The ECB's mandate is for price stability and it targets an annual inflation rate of 2% over the medium term.



Like the Federal Reserve's inflation targeting, it is symmetrical, so that inflation too low relative to its target is viewed as negatively as inflation above it.



The 2% target provides a buffer against the risk of a destabilizing deflation during a recession.


   European Central Bank (ECB) Functions  

The primary responsibility of the ECB, linked to its mandate of price stability, is formulating monetary policy. Monetary policy decision meetings are held every six weeks, and the ECB is transparent about the reasoning behind the resulting policy announcements. It holds a press conference after each monetary policy meeting, and later publishes the meeting minutes.



The Eurosystem comprises the ECB and the central banks of Eurozone countries. The Eurosystem manages the euro currency and supports the ECB's monetary policy. The parallel European System of Central Banks includes all central banks of EU states, including those that have not adopted he euro.



The ECB is also the EU body responsible for banking supervision. In conjunction with national central bank supervisors, it operates what is called the Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM) to ensure the soundness of the European banking system. The SSM enforces the consistency of banking supervision practices for member countries—lax supervision in some member countries contributed to the European financial crisis. The SSM was launched in 2014. All euro area countries are in the SSM and non-euro EU countries can choose to join.
What Is the European Community (EC)?  

The European Community (EC) was an economic association formed by six European member countries in 1957, consisting of three communities that eventually were replaced by the European Union (EU) in 1993. The European Community dealt with policies and governing, in a communal fashion, across all member states.



The primary goal of the European Community was to foster a common trade policy that would eliminate trade barriers, thereby improving economic conditions for the entire region. Additionally, government officials from member states (who were well aware of the tensions still simmering in the aftermath of World War II) wanted to promote a high level of integration and cooperation in order to reduce the likelihood of future wars.





Key Takeaways

The European Community (EC) was created in 1957 as a way to foster trade cooperation and reduce tensions in the aftermath of World War II.The European Community consisted of three economic associations: the European Economic Community (EEC), the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC), and the European Atomic Energy Community.The six founding member countries of the European Community were Belgium, Germany, France, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands.In 1993, the European Community was replaced by the European Union when the Maastricht Treaty went into effect.


   Understanding the European Community (EC)  

The European Community (EC) was developed after World War II in the hopes that a more unified Europe would find it harder to go to war with one another. When the European Community was created in 1957 there were six countries on the roster: Belgium, Germany, France, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands.



The original European Community was comprised of three organizations and governed by a series of treaties. These treaty organizations worked together to ensure fair and even policies were enacted and enforced across participating countries.


   The European Economic Community (EEC)  

The first of the three organizations in the European Community was the European Economic Community (EEC), also known as the Common Market. The EEC was established in 1957 by the Treaty of Rome as a way to unify the economies of Europe and reduce tensions that could lead to war. Of particular concern was to promote a lasting reconciliation between France and Germany.



In order to eliminate trade barriers and implement unified trade policies, member countries needed to cooperate politically and arbitrate differences peacefully. The benefit for all countries would be the ability to engage in profitable trade across borders. In 1962, the EEC implemented an agricultural policy that shielded EEC farmers from competition arising from agricultural imports.


   The European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC)  

The second organization in the European Community was the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC). It was put in place to attempt to regulate manufacturing practices across the member states. By integrating the steel and coal industries in western Europe, the ECSC was able to remove almost all trade barriers among member states in coal, steel, coke, scrap iron, and pig iron.



The ECSC set treaty rules regarding pricing and quotas, imposing fines on companies that broke the rules. By the 1960s, trade in the commodities overseen by the ECSC had risen throughout the region. The focus of the ECSC shifted in the 1970s toward reducing excess production in the steel industry in order to maintain competitiveness as Japan flooded the markets with cheap steel.


   The European Atomic Energy Community  

Lastly, the European Atomic Energy Community (also known as "Euratom") was created in 1958 to establish a common market among member nations for trade in nuclear materials and equipment. Among Euratom's goals was to coordinate research and promote peaceful uses for atomic energy.



The organization did not include military uses of nuclear materials as part of its oversight. Instead, it focused on trade issues and establishing health and safety regulations for atomic energy.


   The European Union  

In 1993, the European Community was rolled into the European Union (EU) when the Maastricht Treaty went into effect. As of 2021, there are 27 countries in the EU: Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czechia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, and Sweden. 



On June 23, 2016, the citizens of the United Kingdom voted to leave the European Union, a move dubbed Brexit in the press. The United Kingdom officially ended its membership in the European Union on Jan. 31, 2020.
What Is the European Currency Unit (ECU)?  

The European Currency Unit (ECU) was the official monetary unit of the European Monetary System (EMS) before it was replaced by the euro. The value of the ECU was used to determine the exchange rates and reserves among the members of the EMS, but it was always an accounting unit rather than a real currency.





Key Takeaways

The European Currency Unit (ECU) was the monetary unit used by the European Monetary System (EMS) before being replaced by the euro. The ECU was introduced in 1979 and replaced by the euro in 1999. It was a composite of 12 European Union member countries. The exchange rate mechanism (ERM) was introduced alongside the ECU, designed to reduce exchange rate variability and achieve monetary stability in Europe. 


   Understanding the European Currency Unit (ECU)  

The European Currency Unit (ECU) was introduced on March 13, 1979, along with the exchange rate mechanism (ERM), which was designed to reduce exchange rate variability and achieve monetary stability in Europe prior to the introduction of the euro, at parity, on Jan. 1, 1999. The ECU replaced the European Unit of Account in 1979.



The ERM was meant to limit fluctuations between ECU currencies. The ECU was used in various international financial transactions, allowing ECU-denominated securities to offer foreign diversification.



The ECU was a composite of "artificial" currency based on a basket of European Union (EU) member currencies, weighted according to each country’s share of EU output. The ECU started off with nine currencies and by late 1989 through the end of 1999, the basket held 12 currencies. The currencies were the Belgian franc, German mark, Danish krone, Spanish peseta, French franc, British Pound, Greek drachma, Irish pound, Italian lira, Luxembourg franc, Dutch guilder, and Portuguese escudo.


   Special Considerations  

The EMS was marked by currency instability and political infighting over appropriate national exchange rates, as the other currencies were forced to follow the Bundesbank's lead on monetary policy. The exchange rates of strong currencies, like the Deutsche Mark, and those of weaker ones, like the Danish krone, were periodically adjusted. But after 1986, changes in national interest rates were used to keep the currencies within a narrow range.



However, because Germany and Britain's economic cycles were largely out of synch—in part due to German reunification—Britain struggled to remain competitive within the ERM. It crashed out in 1992 after Sterling came under attack by speculators, including George Soros, on Black Wednesday. The UK and Denmark would never join the eurozone, and Greece joined late.



The name of the euro was first introduced in 1995 in Spain. As an accounting currency, the euro was introduced in 1999. It replaced the ECU at a 1:1 ratio. Euro coins and banknotes were put into circulation in 2002, making it the daily operating currency for the region. Now, the euro is the official currency of 19 of the 27 EU members, including four European microstates that are not part of the EU.



The euro is the second-largest and second-most traded currency in the world, behind the U.S. dollar. As of August 2022, there were over 29 trillion euro banknotes and over 144 billion euro coins in circulation.
What Is the European Economic and Monetary Union (EMU)?  

The European Economic and Monetary Union (EMU) combines several of the European Union (EU) member states into a cohesive economic system. It is the successor to the European Monetary System (EMS). Note that there is a difference between the 19-member European Economic and Monetary Union (EMU), and the larger European Union (EU) which has 27 member states as of 2022.



Also referred to as the Eurozone, the European Economic and Monetary Union (EMU) is quite a broad umbrella, under which a group of policies has been enacted aimed at economic convergence and free trade among European Union member states. The EMU's development occurred through a three-phase process, with the third phase initiating the adoption of the common euro currency in place of former national currencies. This has been completed by all initial EU members except for the United Kingdom and Denmark, who have opted out of adopting the euro. The U.K. subsequently left the EMU in 2020 following the Brexit referendum.





Key Takeaways

The European Economic and Monetary Union (EMU) involves the coordination of economic and fiscal policies, a common monetary policy, and a common currency, the euro among 19 Eurozone nations.The decision to form the EMU was adopted by Treaty of the European Council in the Dutch city of Maastricht in 1992 .2002 saw the introduction of the common euro currency finally replacing the national currencies of most EU member states.


   History of the European Monetary Union (EMU)  

The first efforts to create a European Economic and Monetary Union began after World War I. On Sept. 9, 1929, Gustav Stresemann, at an assembly of the League of Nations, asked, "Where is the European currency, the European stamp that we need?" Stresemann's lofty rhetoric quickly became folly, however, when little more than a month later the Wall Street crash of 1929 marked the symbolic onset of the Great Depression, which not only derailed talk of a common currency, it also split Europe politically and paved the way for the Second World War.



The modern history of the EMU was reignited with a speech given by Robert Schuman, the French Foreign Minister at the time, on May 9, 1950, that later came to be called The Schuman Declaration. Schuman argued that the only way to ensure peace in Europe, which had been torn apart twice in thirty years by devastating wars, was to bind Europe as a single economic entity: "The pooling of coal and steel production ... will change the destinies of those regions which have long been devoted to the manufacture of munitions of war, of which they have been the most constant victims." His speech led to the Treaty of Paris in 1951 that created the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) between treaty signers Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands.



The ECSC was consolidated under the Treaties of Rome into the European Economic Community (EEC). The Treaty of Paris was not a permanent treaty and was set to expire in 2002. To ensure a more permanent union, European politicians proposed plans in the 1960s and 1970s, including the Werner Plan, but worldwide, destabilizing economic events, like the end of the Bretton Woods currency agreement and the oil and inflation shocks of the 1970s, delayed concrete steps to European integration.



In 1988, Jacques Delors, the President of the European Commission, was asked to convene an ad hoc committee of member states' central bank governors to propose a concrete plan to further economic integration. Delors's report led to the creation of the Maastricht Treaty in 1992. The Maastricht Treaty was responsible for the establishment of the European Union.



One of the Maastricht Treaty's priorities was economic policy and the convergence of EU member state economies. So, the treaty established a timeline for the creation and implementation of the EMU. The EMU was to include a common economic and monetary union, a central banking system, and a common currency.



In 1998, the European Central Bank (ECB) was created, and at the end of the year conversion rates between member states' currencies were fixed, a prelude to the creation of the euro currency, which began circulation in 2002.






Convergence criteria for countries interested in joining the EMU include reasonable price stability, sustainable and responsible public finance, reasonable and responsible interest rates, and stable exchange rates. 


   European Monetary Union and the European Sovereign Debt Crisis   

Adoption of the euro forbids monetary flexibility, so that no committed country may print its own money to pay off government debt or deficit, or compete with other European currencies. On the other hand, Europe's monetary union is not a fiscal union, which means that different countries have different tax structures and spending priorities. Consequently, all member states were able to borrow in euros at low-interest rates during the period before the global financial crisis, but bond yields did not reflect the different creditworthiness of member countries.



There have been several episodes with various member nations that have caused stress for the stability and future of the common currency, namely among the so-called PIIGS countries: Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece, and Spain.


  Greece as an Example of the Challenges in the EMU  

Greece, perhaps, represents the most high-profile example of the challenges in the EMU. Greece revealed in 2009 that it had been understating the severity of its deficit since adopting the euro in 2001, and the country suffered one of the worst economic crises in recent history. Greece accepted two bailouts from the EU in five years, and short of leaving the EMU, future bailouts will be necessary for Greece to continue to pay its creditors.



Greece's initial deficit was caused by its failure to collect adequate tax revenue, coupled with a rising unemployment rate and loose government spending. In July 2015, Greek officials announced capital controls and a bank holiday and restricted the number of euros that could be removed per day.



The EU had given Greece an ultimatum: accept strict austerity measures, which many Greeks now believe caused the crisis in the first place, or leave the EMU. On July 5, 2015, Greece voted to reject EU austerity measures, prompting speculation that Greece might exit the EMU. The country then risked either economic collapse or forceful exit from the EMU and a return to its former currency, the drachma. The downsides of Greece returning to the drachma included the possibility of capital flight and a distrust of the new currency outside of Greece. The cost of imports, on which Greece is very dependent, would have increased dramatically as the buying power of the drachma declines relative to the euro. The new Greek central bank could be tempted to print money to maintain basic services, which could lead to severe inflation or, in the worst-case scenario, hyperinflation. Black markets and other signs of a failed economy would appear. The risk of contagion, on the other hand, was thought to have been limited because the Greek economy accounted for only two percent of the overall Eurozone economy.



In the end, Greece did remain in the EMU and received a number of bailouts and emergence loans from the EU and other lenders. In 2018, Greece successfully exited its third and final bailout program. and returned to relative financial stability and economic growth.




Do All European Countries Use the Euro?
No, some European countries have maintained their own currency and have not adopted the euro. These include the U.K., Switzerland, Sweden, Norway, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Hungary, Poland, and Romania. Some non-EU jurisdictions such as Vatican City, Andorra, Monaco, and San Marino also have monetary agreements with the EU allowing them to issue their own euro currency under certain restrictions.




What Is the Difference Between the European Union (EU) and the Eurozone?
The European Union (EU) is a political and economic grouping of 27 countries committed to shared democratic values. Eight of these countries do not use the euro, leaving 19 nations in the so-called eurozone, who share the common currency.




When Did the European Monetary Union Begin?
The EMU formally began on February 7, 1992, with the signing of the Maastricht Treaty in the Netherlands. The euro itself was launched on January 1, 1999 as a unit of account and coins and banknotes began circulating on January 1, 2002.
What Is the European Monetary System (EMS)?  

The European Monetary System (EMS) was an adjustable exchange rate arrangement set up in 1979 to foster closer monetary policy cooperation between members of the European Community (EC). The European Monetary System (EMS) was later succeeded by the European Economic and Monetary Union (EMU), which established a common currency, the euro.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

The European Monetary System (EMS) was an adjustable exchange rate arrangement set up in 1979 to foster closer monetary policy cooperation between members of the European Community (EC).The European Monetary System (EMS) was established to stabilize inflation and stop large exchange rate fluctuations between these neighboring nations, with the intended goal of making it easy for them to trade goods with each other.The European Monetary System (EMS) was succeeded by the European Economic and Monetary Union (EMU), which established a common currency, the euro.


   Understanding the European Monetary System (EMS)  

The EMS was created in response to the collapse of the Bretton Woods Agreement. Formed in the aftermath of World War II (WWII), the Bretton Woods Agreement established an adjustable fixed foreign exchange rate to stabilize economies and consolidate global financial power among the Western Allied nations. When it was abandoned in the early 1970s, currencies began to float—fluctuate in market value relative to one another—which prompted members of the EC to seek out a new exchange rate agreement to complement their customs union. 



The EMS's primary objective was to stabilize inflation and stop large exchange rate fluctuations between European countries. This was part of a wider, overall goal of fostering economic and political unity in Europe, which ultimately paved the way for a common currency, the euro.



Currency fluctuations were controlled through an exchange rate mechanism (ERM). The ERM was responsible for pegging national exchange rates, allowing only slight deviations from the European currency unit (ECU)—a composite artificial currency based on a basket of 12 EU member currencies, weighted according to each country’s share of EU output. The ECU served as a reference currency for exchange rate policy and determined exchange rates among the participating countries’ currencies via officially sanctioned accounting methods.


   History of the European Monetary System (EMS)  

The early years of the EMS were marked by uneven currency values and adjustments that raised the value of stronger currencies and lowered those of weaker ones. After 1986, changes in national interest rates were specifically used to keep all the currencies stable.



A new crisis for the EMS emerged in the early 1990s. Differing economic and political conditions of member countries, notably the reunification of Germany, led to Britain permanently withdrawing from the EMS in 1992. Britain's withdrawal foreshadowed its later insistence on independence from continental Europe; Britain refused to join the eurozone, along with Sweden and Denmark.



During this time, efforts to form a common currency and cement greater economic alliances were ramped up. In 1993, most EC members signed the Maastricht Treaty, establishing the European Union (EU). One year later, the EU created the European Monetary Institute, which became the European Central Bank (ECB) in 1998. The primary responsibility of the ECB was to institute a single monetary policy and interest rate.



At the end of 1998, the majority of EU nations simultaneouslyy cut their interest rates to promote economic growth and prepare for the implementation of the euro. In January 1999, a unified currency, the euro, was created; the euro is used by most EU member countries. The European Economic and Monetary Union (EMU) was also established, succeeding the EMS as the new name for the common monetary and economic policy organization of the EU.


   Criticism of the European Monetary System (EMS)  

Under the EMS, exchange rates could only be changed if both member countries and the European Commission were in agreement. This was an unprecedented move that attracted a lot of criticism.



In the aftermath of the global economic crisis of 2008-2009, significant tension between the principles of the EMS and the policies of national governments became evident.



Certain member states—Greece, in particular, but also Ireland, Spain, Portugal, and Cyprus—pursued policies that created high national deficits. This phenomenon was later referred to as the European sovereign debt crisis. These countries could not resort to the devaluation of their currencies and were not allowed to spend to offset unemployment rates.



From the beginning, the European Monetary System (EMS) policy intentionally prohibited bailouts to ailing economies in the eurozone. Despite vocal resistance from EU members with stronger economies, the EMU finally established bailout measures to provide relief to struggling members.
What Is a European Option?  

A European option is a version of an options contract that limits execution to its expiration date. In other words, if the underlying security such as a stock has moved in price, an investor would not be able to exercise the option early and take delivery of or sell the shares. Instead, the call or put action will only take place on the date of option maturity.



Another version of the options contract is the American option, which can be exercised any time up to and including the date of expiration. The names of these two versions should not be confused with the geographic location as the name only signifies the right of execution.





Key Takeaways

A European option is a version of an options contract that limits rights exercise to only the day of expiration.Although American options can be exercised early, it comes at a price since their premiums are often higher than European options.Investors can sell a European option contract back to the market before expiry and receive the net difference between the premiums earned and paid initially.Investors usually don't have a choice of buying either the American or the European option and most indexes use European options.The Black-Scholes option model is often used to value European options.


   Understanding a European Option  

European options define the timeframe when holders of an options contract may exercise their contract rights. The rights for the option holder include buying the underlying asset or selling the underlying asset at the specified contract price—the strike price. With European options, the holder may only exercise their rights on the day of expiration. As with other versions of options contracts, European options come at an upfront cost—the premium.



It is important to note that investors usually don't have a choice of buying either the American or the European option. Specific stocks or funds might only be offered in one version or the other, and not in both. Most indexes use European options because it reduces the amount of accounting needed by the brokerage.






Many brokers use the Black-Scholes model (BSM) to value European options.



European index options halt trading at business close Thursday before the third Friday of the expiration month. This lapse in trading allows the brokers the ability to price the individual assets of the underlying index.



Due to this process, the settlement price of the option can often come as a surprise. Stocks or other securities may make drastic moves between the Thursday close and market opening Friday. Also, it may take hours after the market opens Friday for the definite settlement price to publish.



European options normally trade over the counter (OTC), while American options usually trade on standardized exchanges.


   Types of European Options  
  Call  

A European call option gives the owner the right to acquire the underlying security at expiry. For an investor to profit from a call option, the stock's price, at expiry, has to be trading high enough above the strike price to cover the cost of the option premium.


  Put  

A European put option allows the holder to sell the underlying security at expiry. For an investor to profit from a put option, the stock's price, at expiry, has to be trading far enough below the strike price to cover the cost of the option premium.


   Closing a European Option Early  

Typically, exercising an option means initializing the rights of the option so that a trade is executed at the strike price. However, many investors don't like to wait for a European option to expire. Instead, investors can sell the option contract back to the market before its expiration.



Option prices change based on the movement and volatility of the underlying asset and the time until expiration. As a stock price rises and falls, the value—signified by the premium—of the option increases and decreases. Investors can unwind their option position early if the current option premium is higher than the premium they initially paid. In this case, the investor would receive the net difference between the two premiums.



Closing the option position before expiration means the trader realizes any gains or losses on the contract itself. An existing call option could be sold early if the stock has risen significantly, while a put option could be sold if the stock's price has fallen.



Closing the European option early depends on the prevailing market conditions, the value of the premium—its intrinsic value—and the option's time value—the amount of time remaining before a contract's expiration. If an option is close to its expiration, it's unlikely an investor will get much return for selling the option early because there's little time left for the option to make money. In this case, the option's worth rests on its intrinsic value, an assumed price based on if the contract is in, out, or at the money (ATM).


   European Option vs. American Option  

European options can only be exercised on the expiration date, whereas American options can be exercised at any time between the purchase and expiration dates. In other words, American options allow investors to realize a profit as soon as the stock price moves in their favor and enough to more than offset the premium paid.



Investors will use American options with dividend-paying stocks. In this way, they can exercise the option before an ex-dividend date. The flexibility of American options allows investors to own a company's shares in time to get paid a dividend.



However, the flexibility of using an American option comes at a price—a premium to the premium. The increased cost of the option means investors need the underlying asset to move far enough from the strike price to make the trade return a profit.



Also, if an American option is held to maturity, the investor would have been better off buying a lower-priced, European version option and paying the lower premium.





European Option Pros

Lower premium cost
Allows trading index options
Can be resold before the expiration date



European Option Cons

Settlement prices are delayed
Cannot be settled for underlying asset early





   Example of a European Option  

An investor purchases a July call option on Citigroup Inc. with a $50 strike price. The premium is $5 per contract—100 shares—for a total cost of $500 ($5 x 100 = $500). At expiration, Citigroup is trading at $75. In this case, the owner of the call option has the right to purchase the stock at $50—exercise their option—making $25 per share profit. When factoring in the initial premium of $5, the net profit is $20 per share or $2,000 (25 - $5 = $20 x 100 = $2000).



Let's consider a second scenario whereby Citigroup's stock price fell to $30 by the time of the call option's expiration. Since the stock is trading below the strike of $50, the option isn't exercised and expires worthless. The investor loses the premium of $500 paid at the onset.



The investor can wait until expiry to determine whether the trade is profitable, or they can try to sell the call option back to the market. Whether the premium received for selling the call option is enough to cover the initial $5 paid is dependent on many conditions, including economic conditions, the company's earnings, the time left until expiration, and the volatility of the stock's price at the time of the sale.



There's no guarantee the premium received from selling the call option before expiry will be enough to offset the $5 premium paid initially.
What Was Europe's Sovereign Debt Crisis?  

The European sovereign debt crisis was a period when several European countries experienced the collapse of financial institutions, high government debt, and rapidly rising bond yield spreads in government securities.





Key Takeaways

The European sovereign debt crisis began in 2008 with the collapse of Iceland's banking system.Some of the contributing causes included the financial crisis of 2007 to 2008, and the Great Recession of 2008 through 2012.The crisis peaked between 2010 and 2012.


   History of the Crisis  

The debt crisis began in 2008 with the collapse of Iceland's banking system, then spread primarily to Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece, and Spain in 2009, leading to the popularization of a somewhat offensive moniker (PIIGS). It has led to a loss of confidence in European businesses and economies.



The crisis was eventually controlled by the financial guarantees of European countries, who feared the collapse of the euro and financial contagion, and by the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Rating agencies downgraded several Eurozone countries' debts.



Greece's debt was, at one point, moved to junk status. Countries receiving bailout funds were required to meet austerity measures designed to slow down the growth of public-sector debt as part of the loan agreements.


   Debt Crisis Contributing Causes  

Some of the contributing causes included the financial crisis of 2007 to 2008, the Great Recession of 2008 to 2012, the real estate market crisis, and property bubbles in several countries. The peripheral states’ fiscal policies regarding government expenses and revenues also contributed.



By the end of 2009, the peripheral Eurozone member states of Greece, Spain, Ireland, Portugal, and Cyprus were unable to repay or refinance their government debt or bail out their beleaguered banks without the assistance of third-party financial institutions. These included the European Central Bank (ECB), the IMF, and, eventually, the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF).



Also in 2009, Greece revealed that its previous government had grossly underreported its budget deficit, signifying a violation of EU policy and spurring fears of a euro collapse via political and financial contagion.



Seventeen Eurozone countries voted to create the EFSF in 2010, specifically to address and assist with the crisis. The European sovereign debt crisis peaked between 2010 and 2012.



With increasing fear of excessive sovereign debt, lenders demanded higher interest rates from Eurozone states in 2010, with high debt and deficit levels making it harder for these countries to finance their budget deficits when they were faced with overall low economic growth. Some affected countries raised taxes and slashed expenditures to combat the crisis, which contributed to social upset within their borders and a crisis of confidence in leadership, particularly in Greece.



Several of these countries, including Greece, Portugal, and Ireland had their sovereign debt downgraded to junk status by international credit rating agencies during this crisis, worsening investor fears.



A 2012 report for the United States Congress stated the following:



The Eurozone debt crisis began in late 2009 when a new Greek government revealed that previous governments had been misreporting government budget data. Higher than expected deficit levels eroded investor confidence causing bond spreads to rise to unsustainable levels. Fears quickly spread that the fiscal positions and debt levels of a number of Eurozone countries were unsustainable.


   Greek Example of European Crisis  

In early 2010, the developments were reflected in rising spreads on sovereign bond yields between the affected peripheral member states of Greece, Ireland, Portugal, Spain, and most notably, Germany.



The Greek yield diverged with Greece needing Eurozone assistance by May 2010. Greece received several bailouts from the EU and IMF over the following years in exchange for the adoption of EU-mandated austerity measures to cut public spending and a significant increase in taxes. The country's economic recession continued. These measures, along with the economic situation, caused social unrest. With divided political and fiscal leadership, Greece faced sovereign default in June 2015.



The Greek citizens voted against a bailout and further EU austerity measures the following month. This decision raised the possibility that Greece might leave the European Monetary Union (EMU) entirely.



The withdrawal of a nation from the EMU would have been unprecedented, and if Greece had returned to using the Drachma, the speculated effects on its economy ranged from total economic collapse to a surprise recovery.



In the end, Greece remained part of the EMU and began to slowly show signs of recovery in subsequent years. Unemployment dropped from its high of over 27% to 16% in five years, while annual GDP when from negative numbers to a projected rate of over two percent in that same time.


   "Brexit" and the European Crisis  

In June 2016, the United Kingdom voted to leave the European Union in a referendum. This vote fueled Eurosceptics across the continent, and speculation soared that other countries would leave the EU. After a drawn-out negotiation process, Brexit took place at 11pm Greenwich Mean Time, Jan. 31, 2020, and did not precipitate any groundswell of sentiment in other countries to depart the EMU.



It's a common perception that this movement grew during the debt crisis, and campaigns have described the EU as a "sinking ship." The UK referendum sent shock waves through the economy. Investors fled to safety, pushing several government yields to a negative value, and the British pound was at its lowest against the dollar since 1985. The S&P 500 and Dow Jones plunged, then recovered in the following weeks until they hit all-time highs as investors ran out of investment options because of the negative yields.


   Italy and the European Debt Crisis  

A combination of market volatility triggered by Brexit, questionable performance of politicians, and a poorly managed financial system worsened the situation for Italian banks in mid-2016. A staggering 17% of Italian loans, approximately $400 billion worth, were junk, and the banks needed a significant bailout.



A full collapse of the Italian banks is arguably a bigger risk to the European economy than a Greek, Spanish, or Portuguese collapse because Italy's economy is much larger. Italy has repeatedly asked for help from the EU, but the EU recently introduced "bail-in" rules that prohibit countries from bailing out financial institutions with taxpayer money without investors taking the first loss. Germany has been clear that the EU will not bend these rules for Italy.


   Further Effects  

Ireland followed Greece in requiring a bailout in November 2010, with Portugal following in May 2011. Italy and Spain were also vulnerable. Spain and Cyprus required official assistance in June 2012.



The situation in Ireland, Portugal, and Spain had improved by 2014, due to various fiscal reforms, domestic austerity measures, and other unique economic factors. However, the road to full economic recovery is anticipated to be a long one with an emerging banking crisis in Italy, instabilities that Brexit may trigger, and the economic impact of the COVID-19 outbreak as possible difficulties to overcome.
What Is the European Union (EU)?  

The European Union (EU) is a political and economic alliance of 27 countries. The EU promotes democratic values in its member nations and is one of the world's most powerful trade blocs. Nineteen of the countries share the euro as their official currency.



The EU grew out of a desire to strengthen economic and political cooperation throughout the continent of Europe in the wake of World War II.



The EU's gross domestic product (GDP) totaled $14.45 trillion euros in 2021. That's about $15.49 trillion dollars. The GDP of the U.S. for the same period was about $23 trillion.





Key Takeaways

The European Union (EU) is a political and economic grouping of 27 countries committed to shared democratic values.The euro is the shared official currency of 19 EU members known collectively as the eurozone.In recent years, the EU has expanded to include many of the countries that had been Soviet Socialist States before the collapse of the Soviet Union.In the 2016 referendum known as Brexit, the U.K. voted to leave the EU. It officially left in 2020.


   History of the European Union (EU)  

The EU traces its roots to the European Coal and Steel Community, which was founded in 1950 and had just six members: Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands. It became the European Economic Community in 1957 under the Treaty of Rome and subsequently was renamed the European Community (EC).



This served to deepen the integration of the member nations' foreign, security, and internal affairs policies. The EU established a common market the same year to promote the free movement of goods, services, people, and capital across its internal borders.



The EC initially focused on a common agricultural policy and the elimination of customs barriers. Denmark, Ireland, and the U.K. joined in 1973 in the first wave of expansion. Direct elections to the European Parliament began in 1979.


  Creation of a Common Market  

In 1986, the Single European Act embarked on a six-year plan to create a common European market by harmonizing national regulations.



The Maastricht Treaty took effect in 1993, replacing the EC with the European Union (EU). The euro debuted as a common single currency for participating EU members on Jan. 1, 1999. Denmark and the U.K. negotiated "opt-out" provisions that permitted countries to retain their own currencies if they chose.



Several newer members of the EU have also either not yet met the criteria for adopting the euro or chosen to opt out.















The European Union Map.
 Investopedia


   The European Debt Crisis  

In the wake of the 2007-2008 global financial crisis, the EU and the European Central Bank struggled to deal with high sovereign debt and sluggish growth in Italy, Spain, Portugal, Ireland, and Greece.



Greece and Ireland received financial bailouts from the EU in 2010 conditioned on the implementation of fiscal austerity measures. Portugal followed in 2011. A second Greek bailout was needed in 2012.



The crisis abated after the European Union and the European Central Bank adopted a series of measures to support the sovereign and banking-sector debt of the affected countries.


  Long-Term Measures  

These included the establishment in October 2012 of the European Stability Mechanism (ESM), established to assist EU members experiencing severe financial problems, including an inability to access the bond markets. The ESM supplanted the temporary European Financial Stability Facility backstop in place since 2010.



The European Central Bank conducted a series of "targeted longer-term refinancing operations" in 2014, 2016, and 2019 to provide financing on favorable terms for EU financial institutions.



In 2015, the European Union loosened the provisions of the 2011 Stability and Growth Act requiring member states to target public debt of below 60% of gross domestic product and annual government budget deficits below 3% of GDP over the medium term.



The same year, a new EU agency, the Single Resolution Board, assumed responsibility for resolving bank failures in the euro area.


   EU's North-South Issues  

While the relief measures addressed the crisis, they haven't tackled one of its principal causes—the wide disparity in wealth and economic growth between the European Union's heavily industrialized north and its poorer southern periphery, which remains less urbanized and more dependent on agriculture.



Because the industrialized north and the more rural south share a common currency, struggling southern economies can't take advantage of currency depreciation to improve their international competitiveness. Without currency depreciation, southern exporters ultimately struggle to compete with their northern rivals, which benefit from faster productivity growth.


  How It Works in the U.S.  

In the U.S., federal transfer payments help to address similar economic disparities between regions and states.



States with higher average incomes tend to contribute a disproportionately large share of federal revenue, while those with lower incomes tend to account for a higher share of federal outlays.



In the European Union, the COVID-19 pandemic prompted joint spending measures some have called "an incomplete and fragile fiscal union in the making."


   The Brexit Bomb  

After rejecting earlier calls for a popular referendum on the U.K.'s European Union membership, Conservative Prime Minister David Cameron promised a vote in 2013 and scheduled it in 2016. It was a time of growing popularity for the U.K. Independence Party, which opposed European Union membership.



After trailing in late polls, the Leave option won with nearly 52% of the vote on June 23, 2016. Cameron resigned the next day. The U.K. officially left the EU on Jan. 31, 2020.



In July 2020, a report by the Intelligence and Security Committee of the U.K. Parliament noted widespread media reports of Russian efforts on behalf of the Leave option and faulted the government for failing to investigate Russian involvement in British politics.




What Is the Purpose of the European Union?
The European Union was created to bind the nations of Europe closer together for the economic, social, and security welfare of all. It is one of several efforts after World War II to bind together the nations of Europe into a single entity.




How Is the European Union Changing in the 21st Century?
The original members of the European Union were the nations of Western Europe. In the 21st century, the EU has expand membership to the Eastern European nations that emerged after the collapse of the Soviet Union. Its current member nations include Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, and Slovenia.




Why Was the European Union Created?
The overarching purpose of the European Union, in the years after World War II, was to put an end to the devastating wars that had wracked Europe for centuries. At the same time, it became increasingly clear that a united Europe would have far greater economic and political power than the individual nations in the post-war world.
What Is the Eurozone?  

The eurozone, officially known as the euro area, is a geographic and economic region that consists of all the European Union countries that have fully incorporated the euro as their national currency. As of 2022, the eurozone consists of 19 countries in the European Union (EU): Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, and Spain. Approximately 340 million people live in the eurozone area.





Key Takeaways

The eurozone refers to an economic and geographic region consisting of all the European Union (EU) countries that incorporate the euro as their national currency.In 1992, the Maastricht Treaty created the EU and paved the way for the formation of a common economic and monetary union consisting of a central banking system, a common currency, and a common economic region, the eurozone.The eurozone consists of the following 19 countries in the EU: Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, and Spain.Not all European Union nations participate in the eurozone; some opt to use their own currency and maintain their financial independence.European Union nations that decide to participate in the eurozone must meet requirements regarding price stability, sound public finances, the durability of convergence, and exchange rate stability.


   Understanding the Eurozone  

The eurozone is one of the largest economic regions in the world and its currency, the euro, is considered one of the most liquid when compared to others. This region's currency continues to develop over time and is taking a more prominent position in the reserves of many central banks. It is often used as an example when studying trilemmas, an economic theory that postulates that nations have three options when making decisions regarding their international monetary policies.


   History of the Eurozone  

In 1992, the countries making up the European Community (EC) signed the Maastricht Treaty, thereby creating the EU. The creation of the EU had a few areas of major impact—it promoted greater coordination and cooperation in policy, broadly speaking, but it had specific effects on citizenship, security and defense policy, and economic policy. 



Regarding economic policy, the Maastricht Treaty aimed to create a common economic and monetary union, with a central banking system—the European Central Bank (ECB)—and a common currency (the euro).



In order to do this, the treaty called for the free movement of capital between the member states, which then graduated into increased cooperation between national central banks and the increased alignment of economic policy among member states. The final step was the introduction of the euro itself, along with the implementation of a singular monetary policy coming from the ECB.


   Special Considerations  

For various reasons, not all EU nations are members of the eurozone. Denmark has opted out from joining, although it can do so in the future. Some EU nations have not yet met the conditions needed to join the eurozone. Other countries choose to use their own currency as a way to maintain their financial independence regarding key economic and monetary issues.



Some countries that are not EU nations have adopted the euro as their national currency. The Vatican City, Andorra, Monaco, and San Marino have monetary agreements with the EU allowing them to issue their own euro currency under certain restrictions.


   Requirements for Joining the Eurozone  

In order to join the eurozone and use the euro as their currency, EU nations must meet certain criteria consisting of four macroeconomic indicators that focus on price stability, sound and sustainable public finances, the durability of convergence, and exchange rate stability.



For an EU nation to demonstrate price stability, it must demonstrate sustainable price performance and average inflation no more than 1.5 percent above the rate of the three best-performing member states. To demonstrate sound public finances, the government must run a budget deficit no greater than 3% of GDP and hold public debt no greater than 60% of GDP.



A nation's durability of convergence is assessed through its long-term interest rates, which cannot be more than 2 percent above the rate in the three member states with the most stable prices. Lastly, the nation must demonstrate exchange rate stability by participating in the Exchange Rate Mechanism (ERM) II for at least two years "without severe tensions" and without devaluing against the euro.
What Is the EV/2P Ratio?  

The EV/2P ratio is a ratio used to value oil and gas companies. It consists of the enterprise value (EV) divided by the proven and probable (2P) reserves. The enterprise value reflects the company's total value. Proven and probable (2P) refers to energy reserves, such as oil, that are likely to be recovered.


   The Formula for the EV/2P Ratio Is  

﻿















EV/2P


=




Enterprise Value




2P Reserves


















where:
















2P Reserves


=


Total proven and probable reserves
















Enterprise Value


=


MC


+


Total Debt


−


TC
















MC


=


Market capitalization
















TC


=


Total cash and cash equivalents








\begin{aligned} &\text{EV/2P} = \frac{ \text{Enterprise Value} }{ \text{2P Reserves} } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{2P Reserves} = \text{Total proven and probable reserves} \\ &\text{Enterprise Value} = \text{MC} + \text{Total Debt} - \text{TC} \\ &\text{MC} = \text{Market capitalization} \\ &\text{TC} = \text{Total cash and cash equivalents} \\ \end{aligned}


​EV/2P=2P ReservesEnterprise Value​where:2P Reserves=Total proven and probable reservesEnterprise Value=MC+Total Debt−TCMC=Market capitalizationTC=Total cash and cash equivalents​﻿



2P reserves are the total of proven and probable reserves. Proved reserves are likely to be recovered, whereas probable reserves are less likely to be recovered than proved reserves. The sum of proved and probable reserves is represented by 2P.


   How to Calculate the EV/2P Ratio  

Obtain or calculate the enterprise value of the company. The EV is often calculated for investors but if not, add the market capitalization and total debt together and subtract out cash.
Plug the EV value in the numerator.
Plug the 2P reserves value into the denominator and divide it into EV.


   What Does the EV/2P Ratio Tell You?  

Enterprise value compared to proven and probable reserves is a metric that helps analysts understand how well a company's resources will support its operations and growth. Ideally, the EV/2P ratio should not be used in isolation, as not all reserves are the same. However, it can still be an important metric if little is known about the company's cash flow.



Reserves can be proven, probable, or possible reserves. The proven reserves are typically known as 1P, with many analysts referring to it as P90, or having a 90% probability of being produced. Probable reserves are referred to as P50 or having a 50% certainty of being produced. When used in conjunction with one another, it is referred to as 2P.



When the EV/2P multiple is high, it means the company is trading at a premium for a given amount of oil in the ground. Conversely, a low value would suggest a potentially undervalued company.



The EV/2P ratio is comparable to other more common ratios used in valuation such as enterprise value or P/E ratios. These ratios express a company's value as a multiple of earnings or assets.



It's important to compare a company's EV/2P ratio with those of similar companies and with the historical values of the ratio. Using historical and industry comparisons can help investors determine if a company is undervalued, overvalued, or fairly valued.





Key Takeaways


Enterprise value compared to proven and probable reserves is a metric that helps analysts understand how well a company's resources will support its operations and growth.
The EV/2P ratio is a ratio used to value oil and gas companies. It consists of the enterprise value (EV) divided by the proven and probable (2P) reserves. 
It's important to compare a company's EV/2P ratio with those of similar companies and with the historical values of the ratio.



   Example of the EV/2P Ratio  

Let us assume that an oil company has an enterprise value of $2 billion and proven and probable reserves of 100 million barrels:



﻿















EV/2P


=




$


2


 Billion




$


1


0


0


 Million




=


2


0








\begin{aligned} &\text{EV/2P} = \frac{ \$2 \text{ Billion} }{ \$100 \text{ Million} } = 20 \\ \end{aligned}


​EV/2P=$100 Million$2 Billion​=20​﻿



The EV/2P ratio = 20 or the company has a 20 multiple. In other words, the company is valued at 20 times its enterprise value to 2P reserves.



Whether the 20 multiple is high, low, or fairly valued depends on other oil companies within the same industry.


   The Difference Between the EV/2P Ratio and EV/EBITDA  

 Enterprise value compared to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortization is also referred to as the enterprise multiple. The EV/EBITDA ratio compares the oil and gas business, free of debt, to EBITDA. This is an important metric as oil and gas firms typically have a great deal of debt and the EV includes the cost of paying it off. By stripping out debt, analysts can see how well the company is valued.



The EV/2P ratio on the other hand also uses enterprise value in its formula, but instead of using EBITDA, the ratio includes proven and probable (2P) reserves. The EV/2P ratio is important when judging the potential or possible growth of an oil company since proven and probable (2P) reserves are likely to be recovered.


   Limitations of the EV/2P Ratio  

As mentioned earlier, the EV/2P ratio includes total debt in its calculation because enterprise value also includes total debt. Oil companies typically carry significant amounts of debt on their balance sheets, which is normal for the industry. Debt is used to top finance oil rigs, equipment, and the cost of exploration.



As a result, the extra debt would put the EV of oil companies at a much higher valuation than most other industries that carry less debt. Investors should be aware of the unique capital structures of oil and gas companies when using any valuation metric including the EV/2P ratio.
What Is an Evening Star?  

An evening star is a stock-price chart pattern used by technical analysts to detect when a trend is about to reverse. It is a bearish candlestick pattern consisting of three candles: a large white candlestick, a small-bodied candle, and a red candle.



Evening star patterns are associated with the top of a price uptrend, signifying that the uptrend is nearing its end. The opposite of the evening star is the morning star pattern, which is viewed as a bullish indicator.





Key Takeaways

An evening star is a candlestick pattern used by technical analysts to predict future price reversals to the downside.Although it is rare, the evening star pattern is considered by traders to be a reliable technical indicator.The evening star is the opposite of the morning star pattern. The two are bearish and bullish indicators, respectively.


   How an Evening Star Works  

A candlestick pattern is a way of condensely presenting certain information about a stock. Specifically, it represents the open, high, low, and close price for the stock over a given time period.



Each candlestick consists of a candle and two wicks. The length of the candle is a function of the range between the highest and lowest price during that trading day. A long candle indicates a large change in price, while a short candle indicates a small change in price. In other words, long candlestick bodies are indicative of intense buying or selling pressure, depending on the direction of the trend, while short candlesticks are indicative of little price movement.



The evening star pattern is considered a very strong indicator of future price declines. Its pattern forms over a period of three days:



The first day consists of a large white candle signifying a continued rise in prices.
The second day consists of a smaller candle that shows a more modest increase in price.
The third day shows a large red candle that opens at a price below the previous day and then closes near the middle of the first day.


   Special Considerations  

The evening star pattern is considered a reliable indicator that a downward trend has begun. However, it can be difficult to discern amidst the noise of stock-price data. To help identify it reliably, traders often use price oscillators and trendlines to confirm whether an evening star pattern has in fact occurred.






It's advisable to consult various different technical indicators to predict price movements, as opposed to relying solely on the signals provided by one.



Despite its popularity among traders, the evening star pattern is not the only bearish indicator. Other bearish candlestick patterns include the bearish harami, the dark cloud cover, the shooting star, and the bearish engulfing. Different traders will have their own preferences regarding what patterns to watch for when seeking to detect trend changes.


   Example of an Evening Star Pattern  

The following chart provides an example of the evening star pattern:












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



As you can see, the three days depicted begin with a long white candle that indicates prices have risen from significant buying pressure. The second day also shows a rise in prices, but the extent of the increase is modest compared to the previous day. Lastly, the third day shows a long red candle in which selling pressure has forced the price to around the midpoint of the first day.



These are the tell-tale signs that an evening star pattern has occurred. Technical analysts trading this security would consider selling or shorting the security in anticipation of an upcoming decline.
What Is an Event Study?  

An event study is an empirical analysis that examines the impact of a significant catalyst occurrence or contingent event on the value of a security, such as company stock.



Event studies can reveal important information about how a security is likely to react to a given event. Examples of events that influence the value of a security include a company filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, the positive announcement of a merger, or a company defaulting on its debt obligations.





Key Takeaways

An event study, or event-history analysis, examines the impact of an event on the financial performance of a security, such as company stock.An event study employs statistical methods, using time as the dependent variable and then looking for variables that explain the duration of an event—or the time until an event occurs.If the same type of statistical analysis is used to analyze multiple events of the same type, a model can predict how stock prices typically respond to a specific event.


   How an Event Study Works  

An event study, also known as event-history analysis, employs statistical methods, using time as the dependent variable and then looking for variables that explain the duration of an event—or the time until an event occurs.



Event studies that use time in this way are often employed in the insurance industry to estimate mortality and compute life tables. In business, these types of studies may instead be used to forecast how much time is left before a piece of equipment fails. Alternatively, they could be used to predict how long until a company goes out of business.






An event study, whether on the micro- or macro-level, tries to determine if a specific event has, or will have, an impact on a business's or economy's financial performance.



Other event studies, such as an interrupted time series analysis (ITSA), compare a trend before and after an event to explain how, and to what degree, the event changed a company or a security. This method may also be employed to see if the implementation of a particular policy measure has resulted in some statistically significant change after it has been put in place.



An event study conducted on a specific company examines any changes in its stock price and how it relates to a given event. It can be used as a macroeconomic tool, as well as analyzing the influence of an event on an industry, sector, or the overall market by looking at the impact of the change in supply and demand.


   Event Study Methodology  

Theoretically, a stock price takes into account all available information and expectations about the future. According to this theory, it is possible to analyze the effect of a specific event on a company by looking at the associated impact on the company's stock.



The market model is the most common analysis used for an event study. This methodology looks at the actual returns of a baseline reference market and tracks the correlation of a company's stock with the baseline.



The market model monitors the abnormal returns on the specific day of an event, studying the stock's returns and comparing them to the normal or average returns. The difference is the actual impact on the company. This technique can be used over time, analyzing consecutive days to understand how an event affects a stock over time.



An event study can reveal greater market trends or patterns. If the same type of model is used to analyze multiple events of the same type, it can predict how stock prices typically respond to a specific event.




What Is an Event Study in Economics?
In economics, as well as in finance, an event study refers to whether or not a statistical relationship exists in the financial markets between a specific event and a public company's stock price or value.




What Is a Stock Event?
A stock event is when a company's stock undergoes a change, such as a stock split, reclassification, dividend payment, stock combination, or any other event that impacts shareholders.




What Are the Steps in Conducting an Event Study?
The first step in an event study is defining the event, then picking the companies that the event will theoretically impact. From there, normal returns and abnormal returns should be determined using various models, such as the constant mean return model, the market model, various economic models, and so on. The next step would be to measure and analyze the abnormal returns.
What Is an Evergreen Contract?  

An evergreen contract automatically renews on or after the expiry date. The parties involved in the contract agree that it rolls over automatically until one gives the notice to terminate it.



Evergreen contracts are used for a number of different purposes including rental leases, purchasing contracts, and service agreements.





Key Takeaways

An evergreen contract is one that automatically renews after its initial term expires.The parties agree that the contract rolls over automatically and indefinitely until one gives the other notice to terminate it.Evergreen contracts are found in rental leases, service agreements, and purchasing contracts.


   Understanding Evergreen Contracts  

One of the details the parties sign off on in a contract is the term, or the length of time the contract will remain in force. The contract duration varies widely, and all parties are required to fulfill their obligations for as long as the contract outlines. If neither party terminates it on the expiry date, they are all bound to abide by the contract policy for another similar duration.






Most evergreen contracts come with a 60- to 90-day renewal period before it renews.



Evergreen clauses can be used in different kinds of contracts, including employee stock option schemes, dividend reinvestment plans (DRIPs), rental lease agreements, guaranteed investment certificate (GIC), healthcare plans, insurance coverage policies, magazines subscriptions, and revolving loans.


   How to Cancel an Evergreen Contract  

Evergreen contracts can be canceled in several ways. They can be ended the same way they are drafted—through the mutual agreement form of the parties involved. If the parties want to make changes to the original agreement, they can draft a new contract, which outlines the alterations. This new contract voids the original one. The other option may be for one party to default on the agreement. Although this is an undesirable choice, it still nullifies the contract.


   Considerations with Evergreen Contract Provisions  

While an evergreen clause provides convenience for either party because they don’t have to renegotiate the terms of the contract on the expiry date, one party may feel stuck and unsatisfied. In a case where a dissatisfied party forgets to cancel the agreement when it expires, they may be locked in for another period of time.



For example, an investor with a 2% investment vehicle may have plans to roll over the invested funds into another vehicle with a different company offering 5% on the maturity date. If they fail to give termination instructions within the timeframe stipulated in the policy, the investment may be automatically renewed with the same fund company for the lower 2% rate. Parties should do their due diligence to know how and when to dissolve an evergreen contract.


   Examples of an Evergreen Contract Provision  

Many different contracts contain evergreen clauses. These examples are by no means an exhaustive list of evergreen contracts.



Some employee stock option plans provide an evergreen option where additional shares are automatically included in the plan annually. These plans are used to attract and retain quality employees who are incentivized to grow the company. Evergreen options are renewed every year and remain active unless the board of directors decides to terminate them.



An evergreen rental lease term is structured to renew automatically at the end of the term. It is then rolled over to another term with a similar period or activated on a month-to-month basis. For example, a tenant who signs an evergreen lease with their landlord must live in the property for a year, after which the contract becomes an indefinite month-to-month live-in arrangement. During the monthly auto-renewal period, both parties can break the agreement. 



Many insurance contracts have evergreen clauses. When a policyholder takes out a car or home insurance policy, the insurer typically renews the policy for another year, unless the insured person indicates otherwise. If any terms of the policy are set to change in the new term, the provider would notify the insured.



A borrower with a revolving loan can use the funds, repay it in full, and use the funds all over again. Borrowers have indefinite access to the loan amounts unless they fall out of good standing with the bank. If this occurs, the bank may opt to withdraw the loan at the end of the contract period.
What Is Evergreen Funding?  

Evergreen funding (or evergreen finance) is the gradual infusion of capital into a new or recapitalized enterprise. This type of funding differs from traditional funding, in which all the capital required for a business venture is supplied up front by venture capitalists or other investors as part of a private funding round. When the money is provided up front, the company then invests in short-term, low-risk securities until it is ready to use the money for business operations.





Key Takeaways

Evergreen funding is a term used to describe the incremental addition of money into a business by investors; the company receives capital on an established schedule or as the need for funds arises.The idea is that, like the evergreen tree, such a firm always has the “green” it needs to survive; however, by spacing out the investments, the company will ideally avoid the tendency of some startups to grow too fast and then fall apart.Evergreen funding plans allow a business to renew its debt at different times, pushing back the maturity date so that the amount of time until the debt is due holds steady while the arrangement is active.


   How Evergreen Funding Works  

Evergreen funding takes its name from coniferous evergreen trees, which keep their leaves and stay green throughout the year. Similarly, evergreen funding provides capital throughout the seasons of a company’s development. In a normal debt-financing arrangement, company-issued bonds or debentures have a maturity date and require principal repayment at some future point in time.



An evergreen funding arrangement, however, allows a business to renew its debt periodically, repeatedly pushing back the maturity date so that the time until maturity remains relatively constant while the arrangement is in place. In the case of venture capital dollars, the financing is done by selling ownership stakes in the venture, but the infusions of capital are spread out over set periods.



This approach is used to avoid pushing a company to grow too fast. Evergreen funding of this nature assures entrepreneurs that the money is there, but by limiting the pace of capital infusions, it prevents them from growing too rapidly.



With evergreen funding, capital is provided to the management of the company either on a schedule or upon request by the investment team. Evergreen funding has also been used to describe a revolving credit arrangement in which the borrower periodically renews the debt financing rather than having the debt reach maturity.



In this sense, lines of credit and overdrafts are types of evergreen funding, as the borrower applies for it once and then is not required to reapply to access the credit at a later date.






Evergreen funding is distinct from an evergreen fund, which is an investment fund that has an indefinite life, meaning that investors can come and go throughout the life of the fund. 


   Evergreen Funding for Cautious Growth  

The main arguments for evergreen funding for new ventures are the cautionary tales of startups that grew too fast and quickly outpaced their business model to the point that a profitable business on a small scale became a ruined venture on a larger one.



Ways of business funding are multiplying, but the traditional up-front variety of venture capital remains popular. Reasons include founders and investors being eager to scale up as fast as possible to fill any market voids in their sector before other startups can emerge to compete. Also, venture capitalists want as much of the growth as possible to occur when the company is in the private market, so that the value of a potential initial public offering (IPO) pays the maximum return.




What is evergreen funding?
Evergreen funding provides infusions of capital to a new or existing business at repeated intervals, instead of all of it up front. It keeps extending the maturity date of the debt.




What is the traditional debt-financing arrangement?
With traditional debt financing, venture capital is raised at the beginning of a startup’s existence and has a set maturity date, at which time principal and interest must be repaid.




What are the benefits of evergreen funding?
Evergreen funding prevents a company from growing too fast and collapsing as a result of that growth. The company knows that the money is available but is prevented from spending it unwisely and hastily.
What Is an Evergreen Loan?  

An evergreen loan is a loan that does not require the repayment of principal during the life of the loan, or during a specified period of time. In an evergreen loan, the borrower is required to make only interest payments during the life of the loan. Evergreen loans are usually in the form of a line of credit that is continuously paid down, leaving the borrower with available funds for credit purchases. Evergreen loans may also be known as “standing” or “revolving” loans.





Key Takeaways

An evergreen loan is a type of interest-only loan in which principal payment is deferred.Typically, the repayment of principal is only expected at the end of the loan term, although interest rates may be higher or contain penalties for delayed payment.They are called evergreen since interest can be paid but the repayment of principal can, in effect, be delayed indefinitely such that it works like revolving credit.


   How an Evergreen Loan Works  

Evergreen loans can take many forms and are offered through varying types of banking products. Credit cards and checking account overdraft lines of credit are two of the most common evergreen loan products offered by credit issuers. Evergreen loans are a handy type of credit because they revolve, meaning users do not need to reapply for a new loan every time they need money. They can be used by both consumers and businesses.



Non-revolving credit differs in that it issues a principal amount to a borrower when a loan is approved. It then requires that a borrower pay a scheduled amount over the duration of the loan until the loan is paid off. Once the loan is repaid, the borrower’s account is closed, and the lending relationship ends.






Evergreen loans provide borrowers with monetary flexibility but require the ability to regularly make minimum monthly payments.


   How Businesses and Consumers Use Evergreen Loans  

In the credit market, borrowers can choose from both revolving and non-revolving credit products when seeking to borrow funds. Revolving credit offers the advantage of an open line of credit that borrowers can draw from over their entire life, as long as they remain in good standing with the issuer. Revolving credit may also offer the advantage of lower monthly payments than non-revolving credit. With revolving credit, issuers provide borrowers with a monthly statement and minimum monthly payment that they must make to keep their account current.


   Examples of Evergreen Loans  

Credit cards are one of the most common types of evergreen loans. Credit cards may be issued by a bank and added to a customer’s account in addition to a checking account. They may also be issued by other companies with which the consumer does not have additional account relationships.



Credit card borrowers must complete a credit application, which is based on their credit score and credit profile. Information is obtained from a credit bureau as a hard inquiry and used by underwriters for making a credit decision. If approved, a borrower is granted a maximum borrowing limit and issued a credit payment card for making transactions. The borrower can make purchases with credit at any time up to the available limit. The borrower pays down the card balance each month by making at least the minimum monthly payment, which includes principal and interest. Making a monthly payment increases the available funds the borrower can use.



An overdraft line of credit is another common evergreen loan product utilized by borrowers and is associated with a borrower’s checking account. For approval, borrowers must complete a credit application that considers their credit profile. Typically, retail borrowers approved for overdraft credit accounts receive a maximum borrowing limit of approximately $1,000. The overdraft line of credit can be used to protect the borrower from overdrafts, with funds immediately withdrawn from the line-of-credit account if insufficient funds are available in a customer’s checking account. Borrowers may also take funds from the account through cash advances to their checking account for other purchases as well.



Similar to a credit card account, borrowers will receive monthly statements in regard to their line-of-credit account. The statements provide details on the outstanding balance and the minimum monthly payments. Borrowers must make the minimum monthly payment to keep the account in good standing.
What Is Ex-Ante?  

The term ex-ante refers to future events that are based on forecasts or predictions rather than concrete results. Translated from Latin, it means before the event. Ex-ante can be used to describe the potential returns of a particular security or company. Much of the analysis conducted in the markets is ex-ante, focusing on the impacts of long-term cash flows, earnings, and revenue. While this type of ex-ante analysis focuses on company fundamentals, it often relates back to asset prices.





Key Takeaways

Ex-ante is a form of financial analysis that uses forecasting or predictions for future events. This type of analysis is commonly used for events like earnings reports and mergers. Ex-ante, which is Latin for before the event, takes historical performance into account. An ex-ante analysis is not always correct because it is often impossible to account for variables and markets are also susceptible to shocks that affect all stocks.Ex-ante is the opposite of ex-post, which is a form of analysis that takes place after the event and uses concrete results. 


   Understanding Ex-Ante  

As noted above, ex-ante is a Latin phrase that means before the event. It essentially involves any prediction or forecast ahead of an event. In finance, this refers to anything that occurs before market participants become aware of the pertinent facts.



Any research or analysis that financial professionals conduct is generally considered ex-ante. The information they provide in their reports isn't based on actual results because the event hasn't yet happened. Instead, it's based on their own predictions, often based on a company or security's historical performance. For instance:



Buy-side analysts often use fundamental factors to determine a price target for a stock, then compare the predicted result to actual performance.
Earnings estimates involve ex-ante analysis. They take into account the predicted performance of all of a company’s business units, and in some cases individual products. This also involves modeling uses for cash, such as capital investments, dividends, and stock buybacks.






None of these outcomes in an ex-ante analysis (such as an earnings estimate) can be known for certain, but making a prediction sets an expectation that serves as a basis of comparison versus reported actuals.


   Types of Ex-Ante Analysis  

One type of ex-ante analysis that’s particularly useful to investors is gauging ex-ante earnings-per-share (EPS) analysis in the aggregate. Consensus estimates, in particular, help to set a baseline for corporate earnings. It’s also possible to gauge which analysts among the group covering a particular stock tend to be the most predictive when their expectations are notably above or below those of their peers.



Analysts may also provide ex-ante predictions at times when a merger is widely expected, but before it takes place. Such analysis takes into account potential cost savings related to paring redundant activities, as well as possible revenue synergies brought about by cross-selling.



While all forecasting is ex-ante, some analysis still involves analysis immediately after an event takes place. For example, there’s often considerable uncertainty related to fundamental company performance following a merger. The merger itself is the initial event, but the ex-ante analysis, in this case, makes projections related to the next major upcoming event, such as the first time the combined firm reports earnings.



It’s often impossible to account for all the variables for every form of ex-ante analysis. The market itself also sometimes behaves seemingly erratically. That's why price targets that account for many fundamental variables sometimes miss the mark due to exogenous market shocks that affect nearly all stocks. For this reason, no ex-ante analysis can be relied upon entirely.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   Looking Back at Ex-Ante Ex-Post  

Ex-post is the opposite of ex-ante. It's Latin for after the event. Having said that, it's possible to compare expectations versus actuals once the ex-ante analysis's event passes. Looking back at predictions ex-post helps to refine them going forward. Sometimes, this provides additional insights.



Here's how ex-post works. Analysts and investors can use any historic returns to make predictions about the future performance of investments and companies. As such, any risks that an investor or other individual may experience in the future can be determined using statistical measurements based on the investment's long-term returns.



Investors, advisers, and analysts can use ex-post analyses to calculate the largest scope of losses possible. This, of course, doesn't take into account any future market swings, abnormalities, or other unexpected events that may take place.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Ex-Ante  

There are obvious benefits and drawbacks of using an ex-ante approach when it comes to investing. On the plus side:



Since they are only predictions, ex-ante analyses allow investors and companies to better prepare themselves for every possible outcome of making an investment, whether that's positive or negative.
Ex-ante approaches use past performance as a guideline for forecasting.
Using historical data makes investors, analysts, and companies more prepared to make important investment decisions.



But the drawbacks must also be considered equally, including:



Using this type of analysis is that it is only a prediction and isn't based on actual results. As such, it doesn't actually provide any concrete determinations.
It doesn't take any unexpected events, such as market swings, investor sentiment, or other surprising company/industry news, into account.





Pros

Investors and companies can prepare themselves for every possible outcome
Uses past performance as its basis
Helps investors make better and more informed investment decisions



Cons

Isn't accurate because it's based on forecasts rather than actual results
Doesn't account for unexpected events or news





   Examples of Ex-Ante  

Here are a couple of examples to demonstrate the meaning of ex-ante in the financial world.



First, let's suppose Company ABC is expected to report earnings on a certain date. An analyst at a research firm will use economic and financial data from its past and present operating conditions to make a prediction regarding its EPS. For example, she may analyze the overall economic climate and whether the company's business operation costs might be affected by it. She may also use past business decisions and earnings statements to hypothesize about the company's sales figures.



Here's another example. Let's say two companies are planning to merge. How do investors know this may be a good deal? They can determine this using ex-ante analysis conducted by financial professionals. These experts break down and compare revenue streams and determine how compatible they are with one another. They can also use forecasting to determine if the merger will result in savings if a new company is formed by conducting a cost-benefit analysis.




What Is an Ex-Ante Interest Rate?
The term ex-ante interest rate refers to the real interest rate calculated before the actual rate is revealed. The ex-ante interest rate is what lenders and bond issuers publish for loans and bonds. One of the key factors about the ex-ante interest rate is that it isn't adjusted for inflation.




How Do You Calculate an Ex-Ante Interest Rate?
As the name implies, an ex-ante interest rate is one that is determined before the actual interest rate is announced. So if you pay $10 interest on a $100 loan, you're paying 10% in interest. Keep in mind, though, that the ex-ante rate isn't adjusted for inflation. In this case, there is zero inflation.




What Is the Difference Between an Ex-Ante and Ex-Post Interest Rate?
An ex-ante interest rate is announced before the actual interest rate or ex-post rate is made public. The main difference between the two is that the ex-ante rate doesn't take inflation into account while the ex-post rate does account for this figure.


   The Bottom Line  

There are many different ways for investors and companies to make important decisions about their investments. One of the most common ways to do so is by conducting or reviewing ex-ante analysis. This type of research is done using forecasting by taking historical returns and performance into account. This is common for earnings reports and other major events like mergers. Keep in mind, though, that this isn't an exact science since it is based on forecasts rather than results.
What Is the Ex-Dividend Date?  

The ex-dividend date, or ex-date for short, is one of four stages that companies go through when they pay dividends to their shareholders. The ex-dividend date is important because it determines whether the buyer of a stock will be entitled to receive its upcoming dividend.





Key Takeaways

The ex-dividend date or ex-date marks the cutoff point for shareholders to be credited a pending stock dividend.To receive the upcoming dividend, shareholders must have bought the stock before the ex-dividend date.There are four dates to know when it comes to companies' dividends: the declaration date, the ex-dividend date, the record date, and the payable date.On the ex-dividend date, stock prices typically decline by the amount of the dividend.


   Understanding the Ex-Dividend Date  

A dividend is typically a cash payment that a company pays to its shareholders as a reward for investing in its stock or equity shares. As companies generate a profit, they usually accumulate or save those profits in an account called retained earnings. Some companies reinvest those retained earnings back into the company, while others may take a portion of retained earnings and pay it back to shareholders through dividends.



To understand the ex-dividend date, we need to understand the stages companies go through when they pay dividends to their shareholders. Below are the four key dates during the process of issuing a dividend.


  Declaration Date  

The first of these stages is the declaration date. This is the date on which the company announces that it will be issuing a dividend in the future.


  Record Date  

The second stage is the record date, which is when the company examines its current list of shareholders to determine who will receive dividends. Only those who are registered as shareholders in the company’s books as of the record date will be entitled to receive dividends.


  Ex-Dividend Date  

The third stage is the ex-dividend date, which is the date that determines which of these shareholders will be entitled to receive the dividend. Typically, the ex-dividend date is set one business day before the record date. Shareholders who bought the stock on the ex-dividend date or after will not receive a dividend. However, shareholders who owned their shares at least one full business day before the ex-dividend date will be entitled to receive a dividend.


  Payable Date  

The fourth and final stage is the payable date, also known as the payment date. The payable date is when the dividend is actually paid to eligible shareholders.


   Ex-Dividend Date and the Stock Price  

Many investors want to buy their shares before the ex-dividend date to ensure that they are eligible to receive the upcoming dividend. However, if you find yourself buying shares and realizing that you missed the ex-dividend date, you may not have missed out as much as you thought.



This is because share prices usually drop by the amount of the dividend on the ex-dividend date. This makes sense because the company's assets will soon be declining by the amount of the dividend.



Let's say a company announces a dividend equivalent to 2% of its stock price; its stock may decline by 2% on the ex-dividend date. Therefore, if you bought the shares on or shortly after the ex-dividend date, you may have obtained a "discount" of about 2% relative to the price you would have paid shortly before the ex-dividend date. In this way, you may not have been any worse off than the investors who purchased the stock before the ex-dividend date and received the dividend.






Because stocks usually decline in price on the ex-dividend date, investors who missed buying the stock before the ex-dividend date may be able to get the stock at a discount equal to the dividend on or after the ex-dividend date.


   Example of an Ex-Dividend Date  

To illustrate this process, consider a company that declares an upcoming dividend on Tuesday, July 30th. If the record date is Thursday, Aug. 8, the ex-dividend date would be Wednesday, Aug. 7, meaning anyone who bought the stock on Aug. 7th or later would not receive a dividend.



Conversely, shareholders who bought their shares on Tuesday, Aug. 6th (or earlier), would be entitled to receive a dividend since it's one business day before the ex-dividend date. The payable date can vary depending on the preferences of the company, but will always be the last of the four dates. The table below highlights what the key dividend dates might be in our example.











Illustration of Key Stages of the Dividend Issuance Process




Declaration Date
Ex-Dividend Date
Record Date
Payable Date


Tuesday July 30th
Wednesday Aug. 7th
Thursday Aug. 8th
Sept. 7th



Companies go through these four stages when issuing dividends



Correction—Feb. 16, 2022: A previous version of this article misstated when the ex-dividend date falls relative to the record date.
What Is Ex-Dividend?  

Ex-dividend describes a stock that is trading without the value of the next dividend payment. The ex-dividend date or "ex-date" is the day the stock starts trading without the value of its next dividend payment.



Typically, the ex-dividend date for a stock is one business day before the record date, meaning that an investor who buys the stock on its ex-dividend date or later will not be eligible to receive the declared dividend. Rather, the dividend payment is made to whoever owned the stock the day before the ex-dividend date.





Key Takeaways

Ex-dividend is when a company's dividend allocations have been specified.The ex-dividend date of a stock is the day on which the stock begins trading without the subsequent dividend value.Investors who purchased the stock before the ex-dividend date are entitled to the next dividend payment while those who purchased the stock on the ex-dividend date, or after, are not.The ex-dividend date occurs before the record date because a stock trade is settled "T+1" meaning that the record of that transaction isn't settled for one business day.






   Understanding Ex-Dividend  

A stock trades ex-dividend on and after the ex-dividend date (ex-date). If a trader purchases a stock on its ex-dividend date or after, they will not receive the next dividend payment. Since buyers aren't entitled to the next dividend payment on the ex-date, the stock will be adjusted lower by the amount of dividend by the exchange.



When a company decides to declare a dividend, its board of directors establishes a record date. This is the date when a person must be on the company's record as a shareholder to receive the dividend payment. Once the record date is set, the ex-dividend date is also set according to the rules of the stock exchange on which the stock is traded. This usually means that the ex-date is one business day before the record date. For example, if a company declared a dividend on March 3 with a record date on Monday, April 11, the ex-date would be Friday, April 8, because that is one business day before the record date.



The ex-date occurs before the record date because of the way stock trades are settled. When a trade occurs, the record of that transaction isn't settled for one business day. This is known as the "T+1" settlement. Thus, if an investor owned the stock on Thursday, April 7 but sold the stock on Friday, April 8, they would still be the shareholder of record on Monday, April 11, because the trade hasn't fully settled. However, if the investor had sold the stock on Thursday, April 7, then the trade would have settled on Friday, April 8, which is before the record date of Monday, April 11, and the new buyer would be entitled to the dividend.



Investors need to buy a dividend-paying stock at least one day before the record date since trades take a day to settle. If your investing strategy is focused on income, knowing when the ex-date occurs will help you plan your trade entries. However, because the price of the stock drops by about the same value as the dividend, buying a stock right before the ex-date shouldn't result in any profits. The same happens with investors buying on the ex-date or after getting a "discount" for the dividend they will not receive.


   Example of Ex-Dividend  

For example, company XYZ paid a $0.53 per share dividend on June 2, 2023. The payment went to shareholders who had purchased stock prior to the ex-date of May 5, 2023. The company had previously declared the dividend on Feb. 19, 2023, and the record date was set as May 6, 2023. Only shareholders who had purchased the stock prior to the ex-date were entitled to the cash payment.


   Other Considerations  

On average, a stock can be expected to drop by a little less than the dividend amount. Given that stock prices move on a daily basis, the fluctuation caused by small dividends may be difficult to detect. The effect on stocks from larger dividend payments can be easier to observe.



If a company issues a dividend in stock instead of cash (or the cash dividend is 25% or more of the value of the stock), the ex-dividend date rules are slightly different. With a stock dividend, or large cash dividend, the ex-dividend date is set on the first business day after the dividend is paid.


   Key Dividend-Related Dates  

The ex-dividend date is surrounded by other important dates in the dividend distribution process.



Declaration date: The declaration date, also known as the announcement date, is the date when a company's board of directors announces a dividend distribution. This is an important date, as any change in the expected dividend payment can cause the stock to rise or fall quickly as traders adjust to new expectations. The ex-dividend date and record date will occur after the declaration date.
Record date: The record date is when the company looks to see who the shareholders of record are. The record date is one business day after the ex-date but shouldn't be a major factor for an investor's decision-making process.
Payment date: The payment date is the date when dividend checks are sent or credited to investor accounts. Since the payment date is known in advance, the event shouldn't have any impact on the stock's price.




Who Sets the Ex-Dividend Date?
A record date is set first. Then, the ex-dividend date is set based on the rules of the stock exchange on which the issue is traded.




Why Does the Stock Price Fall on the Ex-Dividend Date?
The price of a stock tends to fall by the amount of the dividend on its ex-dividend date, reflecting that its assets will soon be dropping by the amount of the dividend.




Will You Get the Dividend Payment if You Buy on the Ex-Date?
No. If you buy a stock on the ex-dividend date, you will not be entitled to the dividend. Instead, the seller of the stock will be entitled to the dividend. When a company declares a dividend, it also sets a record date by which a market participant must be a shareholder if they want to receive the dividend. Once the record date is set, the ex-dividend date is set, according to stock exchange rules. Typically, that's one business day before the record date. An investor who purchases the stock on its ex-dividend date or later will not get the dividend.


   The Bottom Line  

The ex-dividend date, or ex-date, is one of four steps a company goes through when paying shareholders a dividend. The declaration date is when a company states that it plans to issue a dividend in the future. The record date is when the company determines the shareholders of record that are entitled to a dividend. The ex-date is usually the day before the record date and it determines which shareholders are entitled to a payment. The payment date is the day when dividend payments are made. An investor must be a shareholder before the ex-date in order to collect dividends. If an investor purchases shares on or after the ex-dividend date, they will not be entitled to a dividend payment. Instead, the seller of the stock will receive the payout.
What Is an Ex Gratia Payment?  

An ex gratia payment is made to an individual by an organization, government, or insurer for damages or claims, but it does not require the admittance of liability by the party making the payment.



An ex gratia payment is considered voluntary because the party making the payment is not obligated to compensate the individual. In Latin, “ex gratia” means “by favor.”





Key Takeaways

An ex gratia payment is made to an individual by an organization, government, or insurer for damages or claims, but it does not require the admittance of liability by the party making the payment.An ex gratia payment is considered voluntary because the party making the payment is not obligated to compensate the individual.Ex gratia payments in the U.S. are typically subject to federal and state income taxes. 


   Understanding Ex Gratia Payments  

Ex gratia payments differ from legally-mandated payments because ex gratia payments are voluntary. Usually, organizations, governments, and insurers will only provide compensation to victims if they are legally required to do so. Because of this, ex gratia payments are not very common.



In the case of an insurance company, if a policyholder suffers an injury that is covered by the terms of their insurance policy, the insurer is legally obligated to pay for the claim. This type of payment is not voluntary. It is the result of a legal obligation, and it typically carries with it an admission of liability.






A company may make ex gratia payments in cases where the recipient has experienced a loss; however, such a transaction is not considered an admission of liability.



In contrast, an ex gratia payment is a gesture of goodwill. The type of payment is made following a specific loss or damage to a property; an ex gratia payment does not carry with it any admission of liability. A company providing a one-time credit to its customers would not be considered to be making an ex gratia payment because the payment is not related to a specific loss. However, a company that provides a credit after a service disruption would be considered to be making an ex gratia payment.



An organization may use ex gratia payments as part of a longer-term strategy to maintain good relations with the individual receiving the payment. For example, a large retailer that is forced to reduce staff may provide a severance payment that is larger than the legal requirement. The retailer may determine that this gesture of goodwill will reduce the negative publicity generated by the layoffs. Similarly, British Airways often gives an ex gratia payment card to past customers who may have been inconvenienced to maintain good customer relations.﻿﻿


   Special Considerations  

Ex gratia payments in the U.S. are typically subject to federal and state income taxes. However, in the United Kingdom, ex gratia payments under £30,000 are not taxable as long as the payment is not for work undertaken or services rendered.﻿﻿



While the first £30,000 of an ex gratia payment made to you will be tax-free, taxpayers in the United Kingdom must inform Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs (HMRC) of the payment at the end of the tax year in order to guarantee that they do not have to pay any income tax or national insurance on it.﻿﻿
What Is Ex-Post?  

Ex-post is another word for actual returns and is Latin for "after the fact." The use of historical returns has customarily been the most well-known approach to forecast the probability of incurring a loss on investment on any given day. Ex-post is the opposite of ex-ante, which means "before the event."





Key Takeaways

Ex-post is a word for actual returns and translates from Latin as "after the fact."Ex-post analysis looks at financial results after they have occurred and utilizes them to predict the likelihood of future returns.The ex-post value is obtained by taking into consideration the beginning and ending value of an asset, the growth and decline of the asset, and any earned income.Ex-post stands in contrast to ex-ante, which uses estimates to gauge future performance. Ex-post is standard practice as it relies on proven results.


   Understanding Ex-Post  

Ex-post information is attained by companies to forecast future earnings. Ex-post information is utilized in studies such as value at risk (VaR), a probability study that approximates the maximum amount of loss an investment portfolio may incur on any day. VaR is defined for a specified investment portfolio, probability, and time horizon.



Ex-post yield differs from ex-ante yield because it represents actual values, essentially what investors earn rather than estimated values. Investors base their decisions on expected returns versus actual returns, which is an important aspect of an investment's risk analysis. Ex-post is the current market price, minus the price the investor paid. It shows the performance of an asset; however, it excludes projections and probabilities.












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   Calculating Ex-Post  

Ex-post is calculated using the beginning and ending asset values for a specific period, any growth or decline in the asset value, plus any earned income produced by the asset during the period. Analysts use ex-post data on investment price fluctuations, earnings, and other metrics to predict expected returns. It is measured against the expected return to confirm the accuracy of risk assessment methods.



Ex-post is best used for periods less than a year and measures the yield earned for an investment year to date. For example, for a March 31 quarterly report, the actual return measures how much an investor’s portfolio has increased in percentage from Jan. 1 to March 31. If the number is 5%, the portfolio gained 5% since Jan. 1.


   Ex-Post Analysis  

Ex-post performance attribution analysis, or benchmark analysis, gauges the performance of an investment portfolio based on the return of the portfolio and its correlation with numerous factors or benchmarks. Ex-post analysis is the traditional approach of performance analysis for long-only funds.



Ex-post performance analysis typically centers on regression analysis. An analyst executes a regression of the portfolio’s yields versus the returns of the market index to determine how much of a portfolio’s profit and loss might be the result of market exposure. The regression provides the portfolio’s beta to the market index and the amount of alpha the fund was gaining or losing in relation to the market index.


   Ex-Post Forecasting  

The formula for calculating ex-post is (ending value - beginning value) / beginning value. The beginning value is the market value when an asset was purchased. The ending value is the current market value of an asset. Ex-post is a forecast prepared at a certain time that uses data available after that time. The forecasts are created when future observations are identified during the forecasting period. It is used to observe known data to assess the forecasting model.
What Is Ex Works (EXW)?  

Ex Works (EXW) is an international trade term that describes when a seller makes a product available at a designated location, and the buyer of the product must cover the transport costs. Ex Works (EXW) is one of the 11 current Incoterms (International Commercial Terms), a set of standardized international trade terms published by the International Chamber of Commerce.





Key Takeaways

Ex Works (EXW) is a shipping arrangement in which a seller makes a product available at a specific location, but the buyer has to pay the transport costs.Once buyers have their goods, they are responsible for other risks, such as loading them onto trucks, transferring them to a ship or plane, and meeting customs regulations.Ex Works is an Incoterms (International Commercial Terms), one of 11 standardized international trade terms published by the International Chamber of Commerce.












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   Understanding Ex Works (EXW)  

Ex Works (EXW) requires a seller to safely package goods, label them appropriately, and deliver them to a previously agreed-upon location, such as the seller's nearest port. The seller must also help the buyer get export licenses or other required paperwork, although the buyer must pay the actual fees for the documents.



Once the buyer has the goods, it is up to the buyer to cover any expenses and account for any risks that pertain to the goods. Risks could include loading the products onto a truck, transferring them to a ship or plane, dealing with customs officials, unloading them at their destination, and storing or reselling them. Even if the seller helps the buyer by loading the product onto a ship, it's still up to the buyer to pay if anything goes wrong during the loading.






With Ex Works, the seller can load the goods on the buyer's designated method of transport but is not required to do so; all the seller is required to do is make the product available at a selected location while the buyer pays for transport.


   Example of Ex Works  

Ex Works costs are calculated by businesses that want to cut costs by removing the so-called seller's value-added for shipping. For example, suppose company A has priced a pair of printers from company B at $4,000, with an Ex Works shipping cost of $200. To save money, company A finds a third-party shipper to deliver the printers for $170. So to save the $30 on shipping, they make an Ex Works deal with company B.



An Ex Works agreement differs from a Free-on-Board (FOB) agreement, in which the seller covers the cost of getting its goods to a shipping terminal and pays all the customs costs to get them on board. Meanwhile, the buyer still has to pay to find, contract, and pay the shipping company, as well as the customs costs incurred when the goods reach their country of destination. In addition, the buyer also pays the insurance costs.



In practice, Ex Works is sometimes not beneficial due to the customs rules of certain jurisdictions. In the European Union, for example, a non-resident individual or corporation cannot finish the export declaration documents, so the buyer could be left stranded. In such cases, the free carrier (FCA) term is preferable. Free Carrier means the seller is responsible for delivering goods to a specific destination.


   Ex Works vs. FOB  

Ex Works is the obligation on the buyer's part to incur the costs of loading goods for transport. Free on Board (FOB) is the term used to refer to the seller's obligation to load goods. Generally, FOB transfers ownership of goods to the buyer once they are loaded on the buyer's transportation method. However, there is a possibility that the seller might remain responsible for them during transport to the final destination—this depends on the contract and the terms the buyer and seller have agreed on.


   Responsibilities Under Ex Works  

Under EXW, the buyer assumes most of the responsibilities once they collect the purchased goods from the seller. Some of the responsibilities transferred include:



Loading charges: Any costs for loading goods at the pickup pointDelivery to the port of origin: Costs for transporting goods to the port for shippingCustoms export fees: Any costs associated with duties, tarrifs, and documentationLoading on carriage: Costs for loading goods on the shipping methodCarriage charges: Any shipping costs for moving goods between portsInsurance: If needed or desiredCustoms import fees: Any costs associated with duties, tarrifs, and documentationTerminal charges: There may be charges at the arrival terminalDestination delivery: The costs for delivering goods from the arrival port to the final destinationUnloading: Cost to unload goods, such as labor and equipment.



Sellers in an EXW agreement, in contrast to buyers, have very few responsibilities. Generally, they are responsible for packing the goods to be loaded and transported and providing a place for the buyer to pick them up.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Ex Works  



Advantages

Allows buyers to consolidate multiple purchases
Ability to anonymize a supplier
Least expensive option
Allows buyers to purchase in the domestic market



Disadvantages

Buyer assumes all risk and costs
Need a trusted representative in the country goods are purchased from
You might pay more than intended if you're unfamiliar with the process and costs





  Advantages Explained  

Allows buyers to consolidate multiple purchases: Consolidating purchases from various suppliers helps buyers with the costs after goods are loaded at pick-up locations. Buyers need fewer containers or transportation methods to get the goods to the port of arrival and delivery.Ability to anonymize a supplier: Goods can be shipped under an incoterm or different exporter name to keep your supplier anonymous if you have competition that might be watching.Least expensive option: The costs to the seller are lower, so you're not paying for their increased costs through markups to cover expenses.Allows buyers to purchase in the domestic market: If you're sourcing in a market where there isn't a strong exporting presence, you can more easily find the goods you need in the domestic market.


  Disadvantages Explained  

Buyer assumes all risk and costs: You're responsible for all costs, damages incurred during transportation, and inheret the risk of loss.Need a trusted representative in the country goods are purchased from: Because you're purchasing in another country, you'll need a representative you trust to ensure goods are present, delivered as promised, loaded, and shipped.You might pay more than intended if you're unfamiliar with the process and costs: If you're unfamiliar with the costs and transportation of EXW, you may end up paying more than you thought you would.


   Incoterms  

Ex Works, Free on Board, and Free Carrier are all part of the International Chamber of Commerce's Incoterms. They are used in international trade contracts to outline matters, including the time and place of delivery and payment, when the risk of loss shifts from the seller to the buyer, and the party responsible for paying the freight and insurance costs. The Incoterms aren't actual contracts and don't supersede the governing law in their jurisdiction. Incoterms can be modified by explicit clauses in a trade contract.



Incoterms were first established in 1936, and the current version—Incoterms 2020—has 11 terms. These are often identical in form to domestic terms, such as the American Uniform Commercial Code, but may have different meanings. Additionally, other countries and jurisdictions that govern import and export may have different methods of calculating duties on shipping based on their Incoterms. As a result, parties to a contract must indicate the governing law of their terms.




What Does Ex Works Mean in Incoterms?
Ex Works is a term used in shipping arrangements where the seller is only required to deliver goods at a predetermined location, and the buyer bears responsibility for shipping costs. Along with these costs, the buyer assumes responsibility for the related risks of the goods, which may include anything from customs regulations to loading and transferring to other ships. Ex Works falls under the Incoterms (International Commercial Terms), a standard framework of 11 terms designed to clarify various trade contracts.




What Is the Difference Between Ex Works and FOB?
In shipping arrangements, the difference between Free on Board and Ex Works is based on transferring the liability of goods between the buyer and seller. In free-on-board contracts, the seller takes responsibility for bringing goods to a terminal in addition to customs costs and loading the goods onto the ship. The buyer, meanwhile, is liable for shipping costs, insurance, and customs costs at the final point of arrival. In other words, once the goods are shipped, the buyer assumes liability and ownership of the goods, known as “FOB origin” or “FOB shipping point.” By contrast, in an Ex Works agreement, the seller is only responsible for delivering goods to an agreed-upon location.




What Does Ex Works Mean for Shipping?
With an Ex Works agreement, the seller saves on shipping, customs, and liability for damaged goods after being delivered, packaged, and labeled at the shipping terminal. While this may be optimal sometimes for sellers, it is not always possible due to customs requirements in certain jurisdictions. Take the European Union, for example, which restricts non-resident corporations from completing export declaration forms. In this case, an Ex Works contract would be detrimental to both the seller and the buyer. In contrast, a free carrier contract that bears shipping responsibility on the seller could offer a more suitable alternative.


   The Bottom Line  

Ex Works is an international trading agreement that spells out the responsibilities of the buyer and seller. Under an EXW agreement, the buyer accepts all responsibilities and costs of picking up and transporting goods to their desired destination.



Under specific circumstances, an EXW agreement is less expensive than the FOB alternative, but the buyer must be prepared for and know the costs of transporting goods to the place they want them. The best instances for using an EXW are when the seller cannot export goods or when the buyer intends to consolidate purchases to reduce costs.
What Is Excess Capacity?  

Excess capacity is a condition that occurs when demand for a product is less than the amount of product that a business could potentially supply to the market. When a firm is producing at a lower scale of output than it has been designed for, it creates excess capacity.



The term excess capacity is generally used in manufacturing. If you see idle workers at a production plant, it could imply that the facility has excess capacity. However, excess capacity can also apply to the service sector. In the restaurant industry, for example, there are establishments that chronically have empty tables, along with a staff that appears unproductive. This inefficiency indicates that the venue can accommodate more guests, but that the demand for that restaurant is not equal to its capacity.





Key Takeaways

Excess capacity exists when the market demand for a product is less than the volume of product that a company could potentially supply.The term excess capacity pertains mainly to manufacturing, but it's also used in the services sector. Excess capacity can indicate healthy growth, but too much excess capacity can hurt an economy.


   What Causes Excess Capacity?  

Some factors that can cause excess capacity are overinvestment, repressed demand, technological improvement, and external shocks—such as a financial crisis—among other components. Excess capacity can also arise from mispredicting the market or by allocating resources inefficiently. To remain healthy and financially balanced, a company's management needs to stay attuned to the realities of supply and demand.


   Why Does Excess Capacity Matter?  

Although excess capacity can indicate healthy growth, too much excess capacity can hurt an economy. If a company cannot sell a product for an amount at or above its production cost, then the company could lose money by selling the product for less than it paid to make the product, or the product could just go to waste by just sitting on the shelf.






If a company needs to close a plant because of having too much capacity, then jobs are lost and resources are wasted.



A company with a lot of excess capacity can lose sizable amounts of money if the business cannot pay for the high fixed costs that are associated with production. On the other hand, excess capacity can benefit consumers, as a company can utilize its excess capacity to offer customers special discounted prices.



Companies also may choose to maintain excess capacity deliberately as part of a competitive strategy to deter or prevent new firms from entering their market.


   Example of Excess Capacity: China  

Since 2009, the Chinese economy has been engulfed in its third round of excessive capacity. Earlier periods of excess capacity ran between 1998 and 2001 and again between 2003 and 2006.﻿﻿ Even though China became the world’s second-largest economy in 2010, it continues to face both internal and external economic challenges. Excess capacity in China's manufacturing industries—including steel, cement, aluminum, flat glass, and especially automobiles—is one of its biggest challenges.






Excess capacity = potential output - actual output


  Rampant Excess Capacity Persists in China  

The Chinese government has taken numerous steps to address this problem, but it continues still. In industrial economies, excess capacity is generally a short-term condition that is self-correcting.



However, the severity and persistence of excess capacity in China’s manufacturing sectors suggest that there are deeper, more fundamental issues within the Chinese economy. These problems also have significant implications for international trade, given the growing influence of China in the global marketplace.


  Excess Capacity in China's Automobile Market  

Typically, auto assembly plants have a lot of fixed costs to cover. Also, most new factories in China depend on economic incentives from local governments, so there is pressure to keep the factories open and people employed—whether they can sell the excess output or not. Moreover, all of those extra cars need to find a home, which could mean price wars and lower profits in China's domestic market, along with a flood of exports to the U.S. and elsewhere. For companies like General Motors (GM), who now derive significant sales and earnings from China, that cannot be good news.


  How Long Could It Last?  

One issue is that there is little incentive to remove excess capacity from the Chinese market. Nobody wants to close a relatively new factory in China and risk the acrimony of a local government. Also, after almost two decades, it seems improbable that the excess-capacity trend in China would abate any time soon.


  Then Came COVID-19  

Coronavirus (COVID-19) slammed the auto industry. Amid the outbreak, in February 2020 China experienced a greater than 80% decline in auto sales. But because more than 80% of the world’s auto supply chain is connected to China, production shortfalls resulting from disruptions to the auto industry in China affected automakers across the globe. Most of the world's automotive and related companies believe that the COVID-19 pandemic would have a direct impact on their 2020 revenues.



Because COVID-19 originated in China, China also likely would begin its recovery from the pandemic earlier than Europe and North America. Yet it is still too soon to know for certain, not only what the long-term economic effects of COVID-19 will be, but also the degree to which this newest setback would affect China's historically troubled relationship with the phenomenon of excess capacity.
What Is Excess Cash Flow?  

Excess cash flow is a term used in loan agreements or bond indentures and refers to the portion of cash flows of a company that are required to be repaid to a lender. Excess cash flow is typically cash received or generated by a company in the form of revenues or investments that triggers a payment to the lender as stipulated in their credit agreement.



Since the company has an outstanding loan with one or more creditors, certain cash flows are subject to various earmarks or restrictions for usage by the company.





Key Takeaways

Excess cash flow is cash received or generated by a company that triggers a repayment to a lender, as stipulated in their bond debenture or credit agreement.Lenders impose restrictions on how excess cash can be spent in an effort to maintain control of the company's debt repayments.However, the lender does not want to create so many restrictions that it hurts the financial viability of the company.If excess cash flow is generated, a lender might require a repayment that is all or some portion of the excess cash flow amount.


   Understanding Excess Cash Flows  

Excess cash flows conditions are written into loan agreements or bond indentures as restrictive covenants to provide additional cover for credit risk for lenders or bond investors. If an event occurs that results in excess cash flows as defined in the credit agreement, the company must make a payment to the lender. The payment could be made a percentage of the excess flow, which is usually dependent on what event generated the excess cash flow.



Lenders thus impose restrictions on how excess cash can be spent in an effort to maintain control of the company's cash flow. But the lender must also be careful that these restrictions and limitations are not so strict that they impede the company's financial standing or ability to grow, which could end up causing self-inflicted harm to the lender.



Lenders define what is considered an excess cash flow usually by a formula that consists of a percentage or amount above and beyond expected net income or profit over some time period. However, that formula will vary from lender to lender, and it is up to the borrower to negotiate these terms with the lender.


   Events Triggering Mandatory Payments  

If a company raises additional capital through some funding measure such as a stock issuance, the company would likely be required to pay the lender the amount generated minus any expenses that occurred to generate the capital. For example, if a company issues new equity in a secondary offering, the money raised would trigger a payment to the lender. Also, if a company-issued debt through a bond offering, the proceeds would likely trigger a payment to the lender.



Asset sales could also trigger a payment. A company might have investments or hold shares such as a minority interest in other companies. If the company sold those investments for a profit, the lender would likely require payment for those funds. Proceeds earned from a spin-off, acquisition, or windfall income from winning a lawsuit may also trigger the clause.


   Exceptions to Excess Cash Flow  

Certain asset sales might be excluded from triggering a payment such as the sale of inventory. A company in its normal course of operation might need to buy and sell inventory to generate its operating income. As a result, it's likely that an asset sale, which comprises of inventory would be exempt from a prepayment obligation.



Other operating expenses or capital expenditures (CAPEX) might be exempt from triggering a payment such as cash used as deposits to land new business or cash held at a bank that's used to help pay for a financial product that hedges market risk for the company.


   Calculating Excess Cash Flows  

There is no set formula for calculating excess cash flows since each credit agreement will tend to have somewhat different requirements that will result in a payment to the lender. An approximation of a calculation of excess cash flow could begin with taking the company's profit or net income, adding back depreciation and amortization, and deducting capital expenditures that are necessary to sustain business operations, and dividends, if any.



In other words, a credit agreement might outline an amount of excess cash flow that triggers a payment, but also how cash is used or spent. A lender might allow cash to be used for business operations, possibly dividends, and certain capital expenditures. The terms defining excess cash flow and any payments are typically negotiated between the borrower and the lender.



If excess cash flow is generated, a lender might require a payment that is 100%, 75%, or 50% of the excess cash flow amount.


   Excess Cash vs. Free Cash Flows  

Free cash flow i(FCF) s the cash a company produces through its operations, less the cost of expenditures on assets. In other words, free cash flow is the cash left over after a company pays for its operating expenses and capital expenditures. FCF shows how efficient a company is at generating cash. Investors use free cash flow to measure whether a company might have enough cash, after funding operations and capital expenditures, to pay investors through dividends and share buybacks.



The excess cash flow amount for a company is different than a company's free cash flow figure. Excess cash flow is defined in the credit agreement, which might stipulate for certain expenditures to be excluded in the calculation of excess cash flow. Exceptions to excess cash flow might be taxes paid, cash used to generate new business, but these cash outlays would be included in the free cash flow calculation.


   Conceptual Example of Excess Cash Flow  

In 2010, Dunkin' Brands, Inc. entered into a credit agreement with Barclays Bank PLC and a number of other lenders party to the agreement for a US$1.25 billion term B loan and $100 million revolver lines of credit.



Below are the legal terms used in the credit agreement defining excess cash flow. Under "Defined Terms" of the agreement, excess cash flow is spelled out in a verbal formula as "an amount equal to the excess of":



(a) the sum, without duplication, of:
Consolidated net income of the borrower for such period
An amount equal to the amount of all non-cash charges (including depreciation and amortization)
The consolidated working capital adjustment for such period



Over:



(b) the sum, without duplication, of:An amount of all non-cash gains, income, and credits included in arriving at such Consolidated Net IncomeThe [dollar] amount of capital expenditures, capitalized software expenditures, and acquisitionsConsolidated Scheduled Funded Debt PaymentsThe [dollar] amount of Investments made in cash ... made during such period to the extent that such Investments were financed with Internally Generated Cash Flow, plus any Returns of such InvestmentThe aggregate consideration to be paid in cash...relating to permitted acquisitions



All the capitalized terms in the above excerpt are "Defined Terms" in the agreement. The excess of "(a)" items over "(b)" items are carefully laid out as the definition of excess cash flow. The highlighted items in the above example are by no means exhaustive; instead, they illustrate the fine details of a definition of excess cash flow.






As with any financial metric, there are limitations to using excess cash flow as a measure of a company's performance. The amount that's considered excess is determined by the lender and doesn't represent the true cash flow of the company since items are excluded from its calculation to help the business improve its performance to ensure repayment of the debt.


   A Numerical Example  

Say that hypothetical Company A has the following financial results at the end of the year:



Net income: $1,000,000Capital expenditures for operations: $500,000Interest paid on debt with cash: $100,000



Assume that both Capex and the interest paid are allowed under the credit agreement meaning the company can use cash for those expenses. However, any cash left over after deducting the expenses from net income would be considered excess and trigger a payment to the lender.



Excess cash flow: $400,000 or ($1,000,000 - $500,000 - $100,000)Percentage of excess cash flow for payment: 50%Payment due to lender: $200,000 or ($400,000 * 50%)
What Is Excess of Loss Reinsurance?  

Excess of loss reinsurance is a type of reinsurance in which the reinsurer indemnifies–or compensates–the ceding company for losses that exceed a specified limit. A reinsurer is a company that provides financial protection to insurance companies; a ceding company is an insurance company that transfers the insurance portfolio to a reinsurer.



Excess of loss reinsurance is a form of non-proportional reinsurance. Non-proportional reinsurance is based on loss retention. With non-proportional reinsurance, the ceding company agrees to accept all losses up a predetermined level.



Depending on the language of the contract, excess of loss reinsurance can apply to either all loss events during the policy period or losses in aggregate. Treaties may also use bands of losses that are reduced with each claim.





Key Takeaways

Excess of loss reinsurance is a type of reinsurance in which the reinsurer indemnifies–or compensates–the ceding company for losses that exceed a specified limit.Excess of loss reinsurance takes a different approach than a treaty or facultative reinsurance policy; the reinsurance company is held responsible for the total amount of losses above a certain limit.Excess of loss reinsurance can also work in a slightly different way; rather than require the reinsurer to be responsible for all losses over a certain amount, the contract may instead indicate that the reinsurer is responsible for a percentage of losses over that threshold.


   Understanding Excess of Loss Reinsurance  

Treaty or facultative reinsurance contracts often specify a limit in losses for which the reinsurer will be responsible. This limit is agreed to in the reinsurance contract; it protects the reinsurance company from dealing with unlimited liability. In this way, treaty and facultative reinsurance contracts are similar to a standard insurance contract, which provides coverage up to a specific amount. While this is beneficial to the reinsurer, it places the onus on the insurance company to reduce losses.



Excess of loss reinsurance takes a different approach than treaty or facultative reinsurance. The reinsurance company is held responsible for the total amount of losses above a certain limit. For example, a reinsurance contract with an excess of loss provision may indicate that the reinsurer is responsible for losses over $500,000. In this case, if aggregate losses amount to $600,000, then the reinsurer will be responsible for $100,000.



Excess of loss reinsurance can also work in a slightly different way. Rather than require the reinsurer to be responsible for all losses over a certain amount, the contract may instead indicate that the reinsurer is responsible for a percentage of losses over that threshold. This means that the ceding company and the reinsurer will share aggregate losses.



For example, a reinsurance contract with an excess of loss provision may indicate that the reinsurer is responsible for 50% of the losses over $500,000. In this case, if aggregate losses amount to $600,000, the reinsurer will be responsible for $50,000 and the ceding company will be responsible for $50,000.



By covering itself against excessive losses, an excess of loss reinsurance policy gives the ceding insurer more security for its equity and solvency. It can also provide more stability when unusual or major events occur.



Reinsurance also allows an insurer to underwrite policies that cover a larger volume of risks without excessively raising the costs of covering their solvency margins–the amount by which the assets of the insurance company, at fair values, are considered to exceed its liabilities and other comparable commitments. In fact, reinsurance makes substantial liquid assets available for insurers in case of exceptional losses.
What Are Excess Reserves?  

Excess reserves are capital reserves held by a bank or financial institution above amounts required by regulators, creditors, or internal controls. For commercial banks, excess reserves are measured against standard reserve requirement ratios set by central banking authorities. These required reserve ratios set the minimum liquid deposits (such as cash) that must be in reserve at a bank; more is considered excess.



Excess reserves may also be known as secondary reserves.





Key Takeaways

Excess reserves are funds a bank deposits and keeps at its nation's central bank beyond regulatory requirements.The Federal Reserve discontinued reserve requirements in 2020, thus eliminating excess reserves.Banks can voluntarily hold reserves at the Fed, which pays them interest in a program called Interest on Reserve Balances (IORB).


   How Excess Reserves Are Used  

Reserves are designed to be a safety buffer for banks, who might not anticipate the need for extra capital in their daily operations. The idea of excess reserves was created alongside an incentive called interest on excess reserves, in which the Federal Reserve paid banks interest on funds that exceeded reserve requirements.



Financial institutions that carry excess reserves are thought to have an extra measure of safety in the event of sudden loan loss or significant cash withdrawals by customers.


   History of Excess Reserves in the U.S.  

Reserves have been a part of banking in the U.S. since the 1800s. State laws, enacted after a real estate bubble and bad banking practices caused a crash in 1837, began requiring reserves. These requirements changed over time to deal with other financial industry and economic circumstances, eventually leading up to the monetary policies of the late twentieth and early twenty-first centuries.



The Financial Services Regulatory Relief Act of 2006 authorized the Federal Reserve to pay banks a rate of interest for the first time. Suddenly, and for the first time in history, banks were incentivized to hold reserves with a central bank. The rule was to go into effect on Oct. 1, 2011. However, the Great Recession advanced the decision, following the passing of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008.



In the years following, excess reserves hit a record $2.7 trillion in August 2014 due to quantitative easing (QE) payouts after the Great Financial Crisis and the recession it caused. Between January 2019 and February 2020, excess reserves ranged between $1.3 trillion and $1.6 trillion.



Proceeds from QE were paid to banks by the Federal Reserve in the form of reserves, not cash. Banks kept this money in reserve to allow it to gain interest. The image below demonstrates the increase in reserve balances after QE and IOER were implemented.



Note the sudden steep climb in excess reserves in the shaded area that indicates a recession (where QE was used). Levels remained elevated after QE was discontinued in 2014 (although it did decline), suggesting that banks continued to take advantage of the interest offered by the Fed on excess reserves.












Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis



The mini-recession caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and QE implemented by the Fed once again increased the excess reserve balance to more than $3.2 trillion, although interest rates on reserves had dropped from a high of 2.4% in April 2019 to 0.1% in March 2020.



In 2020, the Federal Reserve eliminated requirements for U.S. banks to hold reserves by dropping the required reserve ratio to zero. When the Fed removed reserve requirements, it implemented a program in which voluntary reserve balances would be paid interest. This is called interest on reserve balances (IORB), which is used to help create a floor for the rates that banks charge each other overnight.


   Factors That Affected Excess Reserve Balances  

Many factors affected banks' use of excess reserves. One of the main factors is the interest paid on excess reserves. When the Fed implemented IOER, the interest it paid on the excess reserves reduced the forgone interest costs banks incurred for holding funds in reserve.



The Fed was pumping money into the economy via quantitative easing into reserve accounts, which increased the amount banks held. Instead of using the money to issue loans to consumers and businesses, the banks left the money in reserve to act as a cost buffer.



Another factor that determined how much banks kept in excess reserves was their bottom line. A bank needs to manage its reserves to maintain liquidity and cover the transactions it anticipates in the short-term. So, banks kept as much as they were required to in reserve and then determined if they benefitted financially from keeping amounts above that requirement.




What Is the Difference Between Excess and Required Reserves?
Required reserves are the amount of capital a nation's central bank makes depository institutions hold in reserve to meet liquidity requirements. Excess reserves are amounts above and beyond the required reserve set by the central bank.




What Happens If Banks Keep Excess Reserves?
It depends on the circumstances. If the central bank pays interest, many banks will likely hold more excess reserves to offset the costs of having reserve capital. But there is an opportunity cost to consider—the question banks have to answer is if it is financially more beneficial to lend that money and generate interest income or to have it in reserve for liquidity purposes.




Are Excess Reserves a Liability?
If there is interest paid on reserves or excess reserves, it is a liability for the central bank because it owes money.


   The Bottom Line  

Excess reserves is capital held above and beyond any requirement for banks to hold a specific amount of money in reserve. The Federal Reserve discontinued its reserve requirements in 2020, thus eliminating the concept of excess reserves.



Central banks in other countries may still use excess reserves to ensure bank liquidity—in fact, the International Monetary Fund publishes guidance for central banks on using reserves and excess reserves in their operations, demonstrating that it is still a viable tool in some economies.
What Are Excess Returns?  

Excess returns are returns achieved above and beyond the return of a proxy. Excess returns will depend on a designated investment return comparison for analysis. Some of the most basic return comparisons include a riskless rate and benchmarks with similar levels of risk to the investment being analyzed. 





Key Takeaways

Excess returns are returns achieved above and beyond the return of a proxy.Excess returns will depend on a designated investment return comparison for analysis.The riskless rate and benchmarks with similar levels of risk to the investment being analyzed are commonly used in calculating excess return.Alpha is a type of excess return metric that focuses on performance return in excess of a closely comparable benchmark.Excess return is an important consideration when using modern portfolio theory which seeks to invest with an optimized portfolio. 












Investopedia / Matthew Collins


   Understanding Excess Returns  

Excess returns are an important metric that helps an investor to gauge performance in comparison to other investment alternatives. In general, all investors hope for positive excess return because it provides an investor with more money than they could have achieved by investing elsewhere.



Excess return is identified by subtracting the return of one investment from the total return percentage achieved in another investment. When calculating excess return, multiple return measures can be used. Some investors may wish to see excess return as the difference in their investment over a risk-free rate.



Other times, an excess return may be calculated in comparison to a closely comparable benchmark with similar risk and return characteristics. Using closely comparable benchmarks is a return calculation that results in an excess return measure known as alpha.



In general, return comparisons may be either positive or negative. A positive excess return shows that an investment outperformed its comparison, while a negative difference in returns occurs when an investment underperforms. Investors should keep in mind that purely comparing investment returns to a benchmark provides an excess return that does not necessarily take into consideration all of the potential trading costs of a comparable proxy.



For example, using the S&P 500 as a benchmark provides an excess return calculation that does not typically take into consideration the actual costs required to invest in all 500 stocks in the Index or management fees for investing in an S&P 500 managed fund.


   Excess Return vs. Riskless Rates  

Riskless and low risk investments are often used by investors seeking to preserve capital for various goals. U.S. Treasuries are typically considered the most basic form of riskless securities. Investors can buy U.S. Treasuries with maturities of one month, two months, three months, six months, one year, two years, three years, five years, seven years, 10-years, 20-years, and 30-years.



Each maturity will have a different expected return found along the U.S. Treasury yield curve. Other types of low risk investments include certificates of deposits, money market accounts, and municipal bonds.



Investors can determine excess return levels based on comparisons to risk free securities. For example, if the one year Treasury has returned 2.0% and the technology stock Meta (formerly Facebook) has returned 15%, then the excess return achieved for investing in Meta is 13%.


  Alpha  

Oftentimes, an investor will want to look at a more closely comparable investment when determining excess return. That’s where alpha comes in. Alpha is the result of a more narrowly focused calculation that includes only a benchmark with comparable risk and return characteristics to an investment. Alpha is commonly calculated in investment fund management as the excess return a fund manager achieves over a fund’s stated benchmark.



Broad stock return analysis may look at alpha calculations in comparison to the S&P 500 or other broad market indexes like the Russell 3000. When analyzing specific sectors, investors will use benchmark indexes that include stocks in that sector. The Nasdaq 100 for example can be a good alpha comparison for large cap technology.



In general, active fund managers seek to generate some alpha for their clients in excess of a fund’s stated benchmark. Passive fund managers will seek to match the holdings and return of an index.



Consider a large-cap U.S. mutual fund that has the same level of risk as the S&P 500 index. If the fund generates a return of 12% in a year when the S&P 500 has only advanced 7%, the difference of 5% would be considered as the alpha generated by the fund manager.


   Excess Return vs. Risk Concepts  

As discussed, an investor has the opportunity to achieve excess returns beyond a comparable proxy. However the amount of excess return is usually associated with risk. Investment theory has determined that the more risk an investor is willing to take the greater their opportunity for higher returns. As such, there are several market metrics that help an investor to understand if the returns and excess returns they achieve are worthwhile.


  Beta  

Beta is a risk metric quantified as a coefficient in regression analysis that provides the correlation of an individual investment to the market (usually the S&P 500). A beta of one means that an investment will experience the same level of return volatility from systematic market moves as a market index.



A beta above one indicates that an investment will have higher return volatility and therefore higher potential for gains or losses. A beta below one means an investment will have less return volatility and therefore less movement from systematic market effects with less potential for gain but also less potential for loss.



Beta is an important metric used when generating an Efficient Frontier graph for the purposes of developing a Capital Allocation Line which defines an optimal portfolio. Asset returns on an Efficient Frontier are calculated using the following Capital Asset Pricing Model:



















R


a



=



R



r


f




+


β


×


(



R


m



−



R



r


f




)
















where:

















R


a



=


Expected return on a security

















R



r


f




=


Risk-free rate

















R


m



=


Expected return of the market
















β


=


Beta of the security

















R


m



−



R



r


f




=


Equity market premium







\begin{aligned} &R_a = R_{rf} + \beta \times (R_m - R_{rf}) \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &R_a = \text{Expected return on a security} \\ &R_{rf} = \text{Risk-free rate} \\ &R_m = \text{Expected return of the market} \\ &\beta = \text{Beta of the security} \\ &R_m - R_{rf} = \text{Equity market premium} \\ \end{aligned}


​Ra​=Rrf​+β×(Rm​−Rrf​)where:Ra​=Expected return on a securityRrf​=Risk-free rateRm​=Expected return of the marketβ=Beta of the securityRm​−Rrf​=Equity market premium​



Beta can be a helpful indicator for investors when understanding their excess return levels. Treasury securities have a beta of approximately zero. This means that market changes will have no effect on the return of a Treasury and the 2.0% earned from the one year Treasury in the example above is riskless.



Meta on the other hand has a beta of approximately 1.29 so systematic market moves that are positive will lead to a higher return for Meta than the S&P 500 Index overall and vice versa.


  Jensen’s Alpha  

In active management, fund manager alpha can be used as a metric for evaluating the performance of a manager overall. Some funds provide their managers a performance fee which offers extra incentive for fund managers to exceed their benchmarks. In investments there is also a metric known as Jensen’s Alpha. Jensen’s Alpha seeks to provide transparency around how much of a manager’s excess return was related to risks beyond a fund’s benchmark.



Jensen’s Alpha is calculated by:


















Jensen’s Alpha


=



R


i



−


(



R


f



+


β


(



R


m



−



R


f



)


)
















where:

















R


i



=


Realized return of the portfolio or investment

















R


f



=


Risk-free rate of return for the time period
















β


=


Beta of the portfolio of investment
















with respect to the chosen market index

















R


m



=


Realized return of the appropriate market index







\begin{aligned} &\text{Jensen's Alpha} = R_i - (R_f + \beta (R_m - R_f)) \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &R_i = \text{Realized return of the portfolio or investment} \\ &R_f = \text{Risk-free rate of return for the time period} \\ &\beta = \text{Beta of the portfolio of investment} \\ &\text{with respect to the chosen market index} \\ &R_m = \text{Realized return of the appropriate market index} \\ \end{aligned}


​Jensen’s Alpha=Ri​−(Rf​+β(Rm​−Rf​))where:Ri​=Realized return of the portfolio or investmentRf​=Risk-free rate of return for the time periodβ=Beta of the portfolio of investmentwith respect to the chosen market indexRm​=Realized return of the appropriate market index​



A Jensen’s Alpha of zero means that the alpha achieved exactly compensated the investor for the additional risk taken on in the portfolio. A positive Jensen’s Alpha means the fund manager overcompensated its investors for the risk and a negative Jensen’s Alpha would be the opposite.


  Sharpe Ratio  

In fund management, the Sharpe Ratio is another metric that helps an investor understand their excess return in terms of risk.



The Sharpe Ratio is calculated by:


















Sharpe Ratio


=





R


p



−



R


f




Portfolio Standard Deviation

















where:

















R


p



=


Portfolio return

















R


f



=


Riskless rate







\begin{aligned} &\text{Sharpe Ratio} = \frac{ R_p - R_f }{ \text{Portfolio Standard Deviation} } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &R_p = \text{Portfolio return} \\ &R_f = \text{Riskless rate} \\ \end{aligned}


​Sharpe Ratio=Portfolio Standard DeviationRp​−Rf​​where:Rp​=Portfolio returnRf​=Riskless rate​



The higher the Sharpe Ratio of an investment the more an investor is being compensated per unit of risk. Investors can compare Sharpe Ratios of investments with equal returns to understand where excess return is more prudently being achieved. For example, two funds have a one year return of 15% with a Sharpe Ratio of 2 vs. 1. The fund with a Sharpe Ratio of 2 is producing more return per one unit of risk.


   Special Considerations  

Critics of mutual funds and other actively managed portfolios contend that it is next to impossible to generate alpha on a consistent basis over the long term, as a result investors are then theoretically better off investing in stock indexes or optimized portfolios that provide them with a level of expected return and a level of excess return over the risk free rate.



This helps to make the case for investing in a diversified portfolio that is risk optimized to achieve the most efficient level of excess return over the risk free rate based on risk tolerance.



This is where the Efficient Frontier and Capital Market Line can come in. The Efficient Frontier plots a frontier of returns and risk levels for a combination of asset points generated by the Capital Asset Pricing Model. An Efficient Frontier considers data points for every available investment an investor may wish to consider investing in. Once an efficient frontier is graphed, the capital market line is drawn to touch the efficient frontier at its most optimal point.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



With this portfolio optimization model developed by financial academics, an investor can choose a point along the capital allocation line for which to invest based on their risk preference. An investor with zero risk preference would invest 100% in risk free securities.



The highest level of risk would invest 100% in the combination of assets suggested at the intersect point. Investing 100% in the market portfolio would provide a designated level of expected return with excess return serving as the difference from the risk-free rate.



As illustrated from the Capital Asset Pricing Model, Efficient Frontier, and Capital Allocation Line, an investor can choose the level of excess return they wish to achieve above the risk free rate based on the amount of risk they wish to take on.
What Is an Exchange?  

An exchange is a marketplace where securities, commodities, derivatives and other financial instruments are traded. The core function of an exchange is to ensure fair and orderly trading and the efficient dissemination of price information for any securities trading on that exchange. Exchanges give companies, governments, and other groups a platform from which to sell securities to the investing public.





Key Takeaways

Exchanges are marketplaces for the trade of securities, commodities, derivatives, and other financial instruments.Companies may use an exchange to raise capital.A company must have at least $4 million in shareholder's equity to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange.More than 80% of trading on the New York Stock Exchange is done electronically.The New York Stock Exchange has been around since 1792.


   Exchanges Explained  

An exchange may be a physical location where traders meet to conduct business or an electronic platform. They also may be referred to as a share exchange or "bourse," depending on the geographical location. Exchanges are located in most countries worldwide. The more prominent exchanges include the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the Nasdaq, the London Stock Exchange (LSE), and the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE).


   Electronic Exchanges  

In the most recent decade, trading has transitioned to fully electronic exchanges. Sophisticated algorithmic price matching can ensure fair trading without requiring all members to be physically present on a centralized trading floor.



Day-to-day operations are normally performed over multiple exchange networks. Though some orders may be processed in a physical location like the NYSE, the great majority of trades are completed through electronic means without regard to a physical location. This process has resulted in a substantial increase in high-frequency trading programs and the use of complex algorithms by traders on exchanges.


   Listing Requirements  

Each exchange has specific listing requirements for any company or group that wishes to offer securities for trading. Some exchanges are more rigid than others, but the basic requirements for stock exchanges include regular financial reports, audited earning reports, and minimum capital requirements. For example, the NYSE has a key listing requirement that stipulates a company must have a minimum of $4 million in shareholder’s equity (SE).


   Exchanges Provide Access to Capital  

A stock exchange is used to raise capital for companies seeking to grow and expand their operations. The first sale of stock by a private company to the public is referred to as an initial public offering (IPO). Companies listed on the stock exchange typically have an enhanced profile. Having more visibility may attract new customers, talented employees, and suppliers who are eager to conduct business with a prominent industry leader.



Private companies often rely on venture capitalists for investment, and this usually results in the loss of operational control. For example, a seed funding firm may require that a representative from the funding firm hold a prominent position on the board. Alternatively, companies listed on a stock exchange have more control and autonomy because investors who purchase shares have limited rights.


   Real-World Example of an Exchange  

The New York Stock Exchange is perhaps the most well-known of exchanges in the U.S. Located on Wall Street in Manhattan in New York, and it saw its first trade in 1792.﻿﻿ The floor of the NYSE sees stock transactions taking place in a continuous auction format Mondays through Fridays from 9:30 a.m.-4 p.m.﻿﻿



Historically, brokers employed by members of the NYSE would facilitate trades by auctioning off shares. The process started to become automated in the 1990s, and by 2007, nearly all stocks became available via an electronic market. The only exceptions are a few stocks with very high prices.



Until 2005, only owners of seats on the exchange could trade directly on the exchange. Those seats now are leased on one-year terms.
What Are Exchange Controls?  

Exchange controls are government-imposed limitations on the purchase and/or sale of currencies. These controls allow countries to better stabilize their economies by limiting in-flows and out-flows of currency, which can create exchange rate volatility. Not every nation may employ the measures, at least legitimately; the 14th article of the International Monetary Fund's Articles of Agreement allows only countries with so-called transitional economies to employ exchange controls.


   Understanding Exchange Controls  

Many western European countries implemented exchange controls in the years immediately following World War II. The measures were gradually phased out, however, as the post-war economies on the continent steadily strengthened; the United Kingdom, for example, removed the last of its restrictions in October 1979. Countries with weak and/or developing economies generally use foreign exchange controls to limit speculation against their currencies. They often simultaneously introduce capital controls, which limit the amount of foreign investment in the country.






Countries with weak or developing economies may put controls on how much local currency can be exchanged or exported—or ban a foreign currency altogether—to prevent speculation.



Exchange controls can be enforced in a few common ways. A government may ban the use of a particular foreign currency and prohibit locals from possessing it. Alternatively, they can impose fixed exchange rates to discourage speculation, restrict any or all foreign exchange to a government-approved exchanger, or limit the amount of currency that can be imported to or exported from the country.


   Measures to Thwart Controls  

One tactic companies use to work around currency controls, and to hedge currency exposures, is to use what are known as forward contracts. With these arrangements, the hedger arranges to buy or sell a given amount of an un-tradable currency on a given forward date, at an agreed rate against a major currency. At maturity, the gain or loss is settled in the major currency because settling in the other currency is prohibited by controls.



The exchange controls in many developing nations do not permit forward contracts, or allow them only to be used by residents for limited purposes, such as to buy essential imports. Consequently, in countries with exchange controls, non-deliverable forwards are usually executed offshore because local currency regulations cannot be enforced outside of the country. Countries, where active offshore NDF markets have operated, include China, the Philippines, South Korea, and Argentina.


   Exchange Controls in Iceland  

Iceland offers a recent notable example of the use of exchange controls during a financial crisis. A small country of about 334,000 people, Iceland saw its economy collapse in 2008. Its fishing-based economy had gradually been turned into essentially a giant hedge fund by its three largest banks (Landsbanki, Kaupthing, and Glitnir), whose assets measured 14 times that of the country's entire economic output.



The country benefited, at least initially, from a huge inflow of capital taking advantage of the high-interest rates paid by the banks. However, when the crisis hit, investors needing cash pulled their money out of Iceland, causing the local currency, the krona, to plummet. The banks also collapsed, and the economy received a rescue package from the IMF.


  Lifting the Exchange Controls and Imposing New Ones  

Under the exchange controls, investors who held high-yield offshore krona accounts were not able to bring the money back into the country. In March 2017, the Central Bank lifted most of the exchange controls on the krona, allowing the cross-border movement of Icelandic and foreign currency once again. However, the Central Bank also imposed new reserve requirements and updated its foreign exchange rules to control the flow of hot money into the nation’s economy.



In an effort to settle disputes with foreign investors who had been unable to liquidate their Icelandic holdings while the exchange controls were in place, the Central Bank offered to buy their currency holdings at an exchange rate discounted about 20 percent from the normal exchange rate at the time. Icelandic lawmakers also required foreign holders of krona-denominated government bonds to sell them back to Iceland at a discounted rate, or have their profits impounded in low-interest accounts indefinitely upon the bonds’ maturity.
What Is Exchange of Futures for Physical?  

An exchange of futures for physical (EFP) is a private agreement between two parties to trade a futures position for the basket of underlying actuals. An exchange of futures for physicals can be used to open a futures position, close a futures position, or switch a futures position for the underlying asset.





Key Takeaways

An exchange of futures for physical (EFP) allows for one party to swap a futures contract for the actual underlying asset.EFPs are traded over-the-counter (OTC) and are often used by commodities producers to hedge positions or regulate production.EFPs are especially useful when a large transaction takes place so the market price is not artificially altered by a non-speculative trade.


   Understanding Exchange of Futures for Physical (EFP)  

Exchange of futures for physical (EFP) is one of a few types of privately negotiated agreements that can then be registered with the exchange. The volume involved in the transaction is shown in the days’ trading when the transaction is registered, but the price at which the transaction was completed (the privately agreed upon price between the parties) is not revealed.



When two parties have agreed to an exchange of futures for physicals, they then register the transaction with the relevant exchange. Exchange of futures for physical is also referred to as exchange of futures for product and exchange of futures for cash (as in cash commodity). The term exchange of futures for physical is generally used to describe transactions of this nature even when the underlying are financial products rather than cash commodities. Exchange of futures for swap (EFS) can be used if the futures position is being traded for a swap contract.


   Example of Exchange of Futures for Physical  

The most common examples of the exchange of futures for physical is in the oil and gas sector. This makes sense, as these types of transactions are not done by small traders and speculators. EFPs will usually involve large commercial and non-commercial traders. Imagine an oil and gas producer is sitting on an inventory of one million barrels on the assumption that prices are trending up. A refiner who is worried about prices going up wants to secure barrels of oil in the future, so they buy 1,000 contracts representing a contract unit of 1,000 barrels, each for a total of one million barrels.



The refiner and the producer get to talking and they realize that a) they are both bullish on the price of oil and b) they can switch positions to fulfill each other’s needs. They agree to a price and delivery date in the future where the producer hands over the physical oil to the refiner—locking in the refiner’s supply—and receives the futures in return, allowing the producer to continue the bullish position on oil prices. This large transaction is registered with the exchange, but it doesn't impact the price of oil because pricing information is not disclosed. So the refiner has closed out a futures position and the producer has opened one.


   Advantages of Exchange of Futures for Physical  

The obvious question is why not just do the transaction through the market? The answer is simply for the sake of efficiency. Large transactions impact the market as they are executed. This is why large traders sometimes break up transactions over time to reduce the impact of slippage. Doing the exchange for futures outside the market pricing mechanism allows large, offsetting transactions to take place at a decided price. EFP is also used when the market depth is not able to absorb the transaction—for example, a transaction involving thousands of contracts.
What Is an Exchange Rate?  

An exchange rate is a rate at which one currency will be exchanged for another currency and affects trade and the movement of money between countries.



Exchange rates are impacted by both the domestic currency value and the foreign currency value. In July 2022, the exchange rate from U.S. Dollars to the Euro was 1.02, meaning it takes $1.02 to buy €1.





Key Takeaways


An exchange rate is a rate at which one currency will be exchanged for another currency.
Most exchange rates are defined as floating and will rise or fall based on the supply and demand in the market.
Some exchange rates are pegged or fixed to the value of a specific country's currency.
Exchange rate changes affect businesses by changing the cost of supplies that are purchased from a different country, and by changing the demand for their products from overseas customers.













Investopedia / Xiaojie Liu


   Understanding Exchange Rates  

The exchange rate between two currencies is commonly determined by the economic activity, market interest rates, gross domestic product, and unemployment rate in each of the countries. Commonly called market exchange rates, they are set in the global financial marketplace, where banks and other financial institutions trade currencies around the clock based on these factors. Changes in rates can occur hourly or daily with small changes or in large incremental shifts.



An exchange rate is commonly quoted using an acronym for the national currency it represents. For example, the acronym USD represents the U.S. dollar, while EUR represents the euro. To quote the currency pair for the dollar and the euro, it would be EUR/USD. In the case of the Japanese yen, it's USD/JPY or dollar to yen. An exchange rate of 100 means that 1 dollar equals 100 yen.


   How Exchange Rates Fluctuate  

Exchange rates can be free-floating or fixed. A free-floating exchange rate rises and falls due to changes in the foreign exchange market. A fixed exchange rate is pegged to the value of another currency. The Hong Kong dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar in a range of 7.75 to 7.85. This means the value of the Hong Kong dollar to the U.S. dollar will remain within this range.



Exchange rates have what is called a spot rate, or cash value, which is the current market value. Alternatively, an exchange rate may have a forward value, which is based on expectations for the currency to rise or fall versus its spot price. 



Forward rate values may fluctuate due to changes in expectations for future interest rates in one country versus another. If traders speculate that the eurozone will ease monetary policy versus the U.S., they may buy the dollar versus the euro, resulting in a downward trend in the value of the euro. 


   Exchange Rate Example  

A traveler to Germany from the U.S. wants 200 USD worth of EUR when arriving in Germany. The sell rate is the rate at which a traveler sells foreign currency in exchange for local currency. The buy rate is the rate at which one buys foreign currency back from travelers to exchange it for local currency.



If the current exchange rate is 1.05, $200 will net €190.48 in return.



In this case, the equation is: dollars ÷ exchange rate = euro



$200 ÷ 1.05 = €190.48



After the trip, suppose €66 is remaining. If the exchange rate has dropped to 1.02, the change from euros to dollars will be $67.32.



€66 x 1.02 = $67.32



The Japanese yen is calculated differently. In this case, the dollar is placed in front of the yen, as in USD/JPY.



The equation for USD/JPY is: dollars x exchange rate = yen



If a traveler to Japan wants to convert $100 into yen and the exchange rate is 110, the traveler would get ¥11,000. To convert the yen back into dollars one needs to divide the amount of the currency by the exchange rate.



$100 x 110 = ¥11,000.00



-or-



¥11,000.00/110= $100








How Do Exchange Rates Affect the Supply and Demand of Goods?
Changes in exchange rates affect businesses by changing the cost of supplies that are purchased from a different country, and by changing the demand for their products from overseas customers.




What Is the FOREX?
The forex market, or foreign exchange market, allows banks, funds, and individuals to buy, sell or exchange currencies. The market operates 24 hours, 5.5 days a week, and is responsible for trillions of dollars in daily trading activity as traders look to profit by betting that a currency's value will either appreciate or depreciate against another currency.




What Is a Restricted Currency?
Exchange rates can differ within the same country. Some countries have restricted currencies, limiting their exchange to within the countries' borders and often there is an onshore rate and an offshore rate. A more favorable exchange rate can often be found within a country's borders versus outside its borders and a restricted currency has its value set by the government. China is an example of a country that has this rate structure and a currency that is controlled by the government. Every day, the Chinese government sets a midpoint value for the currency, allowing the yuan to trade in a band of 2% from the midpoint.


   The Bottom Line  

An exchange rate is a rate at which one currency will be exchanged for another currency. While most exchange rates are floating and will rise or fall based on the supply and demand in the market, some exchange rates are pegged or fixed to the value of a specific country's currency. Exchange rate changes affect businesses and the cost of supplies and demand for their products in the international marketplace.
What Is an Exchange Rate Mechanism (ERM)?  

An exchange rate mechanism (ERM) is a set of procedures used to manage a country's currency exchange rate relative to other currencies. It is part of an economy's monetary policy and is put to use by central banks.



Such a mechanism can be employed if a country utilizes either a fixed exchange rate or one with a constrained floating exchange rate that is bounded around its peg (known as an adjustable peg or crawling peg).





Key Takeaways

An exchange rate mechanism (ERM) is a way that governments can influence the relative price of their national currency in forex markets.The ERM allows the central bank to tweak a currency peg in order to normalize trade and/or the influence of inflation.More broadly, ERM is used to keep exchange rates stable and minimize currency rate volatility in the market.


   Understanding the Exchange Rate Mechanism  

Monetary policy is the process of drafting, announcing, and implementing the plan of actions taken by the central bank, currency board, or other competent monetary authority of a country that controls the quantity of money in an economy and the channels by which new money is supplied. Under a currency board, the management of the exchange rate and money supply is given to a monetary authority that makes decisions about the valuation of a nation’s currency. Often, this monetary authority has direct instructions to back all units of domestic currency in circulation with foreign currency. 



An exchange rate mechanism is not a new concept. Historically, most new currencies started as a fixed exchange mechanism that tracked gold or a widely traded commodity. It is loosely based on fixed exchange rate margins, whereby exchange rates fluctuate within certain margins.



An upper and lower bound interval allows a currency to experience some variability without sacrificing liquidity or drawing additional economic risks. The concept of currency exchange rate mechanisms is also referred to as a semi-pegged currency system.


   Real World Example: The European Exchange Rate Mechanism  

The most notable exchange rate mechanism occurred in Europe during the late 1970s. The European Economic Community introduced the ERM in 1979, as part of the European Monetary System (EMS), to reduce exchange rate variability and achieve stability before member countries moved to a single currency. It was designed to normalize exchange rates between countries before they were integrated in order to avoid any problems with price discovery.






On September 16, 1992, a day known as Black Wednesday, a collapse in the pound sterling forced Britain to withdraw from the European exchange rate mechanism (ERM).



The exchange rate mechanisms came to a head in 1992 when Britain, a member of the European ERM, withdrew from the treaty. The British government initially entered the agreement to prevent the British pound and other member currencies from deviating by more than 6%.


   Real World Example: Soros and Black Wednesday  

In the months leading up to the 1992 event, legendary investor George Soros had built up a monumental short position in the pound sterling that became profitable if the currency fell below the lower band of the ERM. Soros recognized that Britain entered the agreement under unfavorable conditions, the rate was too high, and economic conditions were fragile. In September 1992, now known as Black Wednesday, Soros sold off a large portion of his short position to the dismay of the Bank of England, who fought tooth and nail to support the pound sterling.



The European exchange rate mechanism dissolved by the end of the decade, but not before a successor was installed. The exchange rate mechanism II (ERM II) was formed in January 1999 to ensure that exchange rate fluctuations between the Euro and other EU currencies did not disrupt economic stability in the single market. It also helped non-euro-area countries prepare to enter the euro area.



Most non-euro-area countries agree to keep exchange rates bound to a 15% range, up or down, against the central rate. When necessary, the European Central Bank (ECB) and other nonmember countries can intervene to keep rates in the window. Some current and former members of the ERM II include Greece, Denmark, and Lithuania.
What Is the Exchange Ratio?  

The exchange ratio is the relative number of new shares that will be given to existing shareholders of a company that has been acquired or that has merged with another. After the old company shares have been delivered, the exchange ratio is used to give shareholders the same relative value in new shares of the merged entity.





Key Takeaways

The exchange ratio calculates how many shares an acquiring company needs to issue for each share an investor owns in a target company to provide the same relative value to the investor.The target company purchase price often includes a price premium paid by the acquirer due to buying 100% control of the target company.The intrinsic value of the shares and the underlying value of the company are considered when coming up with an exchange ratio.There are two types of exchange ratios: a fixed exchange ratio and a floating exchange ratio.


   Understanding the Exchange Ratio  

An exchange ratio is designed to give shareholders the amount of stock in an acquirer company that maintains the same relative value of the stock the shareholder held in the target, or acquired company. The target company share price is typically increased by the amount of a "takeover premium," or an additional amount of money an acquirer pays for the right to buy 100% of the company's outstanding shares and have a 100% controlling interest in the company.



Relative value does not mean, however, that the shareholder receives the same number of shares or same dollar value based on current prices. Instead, the intrinsic value of the shares and the underlying value of the company are considered when coming up with an exchange ratio.


   Calculating the Exchange Ratio  

The exchange ratio only exists in deals that are paid for in stock or a mix of stock and cash as opposed to just cash. The calculation for the exchange ratio is:



﻿















Exchange Ratio


=




Target Share Price




Acquirer Share Price










\begin{aligned} &\text{Exchange Ratio} = \frac{ \text{Target Share Price} }{ \text{Acquirer Share Price} } \\ \end{aligned}


​Exchange Ratio=Acquirer Share PriceTarget Share Price​​﻿



The target share price is the price offered for the target shares. Because both share prices can change from the time the initial numbers are drafted to when the deal closes, the exchange ratio is usually structured as a fixed exchange ratio or a floating exchange ratio.



A fixed exchange ratio is fixed until the deal closes. The number of issued shares is known but the value of the deal is unknown. The acquiring company prefers this method as the number of shares is known therefore the percentage of control is known.



A floating exchange ratio is where the ratio floats so that the target company receives a fixed value no matter the changes in price shares. In a floating exchange ratio, the shares are unknown but the value of the deal is known. The target company, or seller, prefers this method as they know the exact value they will be receiving.


   Example of the Exchange Ratio  

Imagine that the buyer of a company offers the seller two shares of the buyer's company in exchange for one share of the seller's company. Prior to the announcement of the deal, the buyer's or acquirer's shares may be trading at $10, while the seller's or target's shares trade at $15. Due to the 2 to 1 exchange ratio, the buyer is effectively offering $20 for a seller share that is trading at $15.



Fixed exchange ratios are usually limited by caps and floors to reflect extreme changes in stock prices. Caps and floors prevent the seller from receiving significantly less consideration than anticipated, and they likewise prevent the buyer from giving up significantly more consideration than anticipated.



Post announcement of a deal, there is usually a gap in valuation between the seller's and buyer's shares to reflect the time value of money and risks. Some of these risks include the deal being blocked by the government, shareholder disapproval, or extreme changes in markets or economies.



Taking advantage of the gap, believing that the deal will go through, is referred to as merger arbitrage and is practiced by hedge funds and other investors. Leveraging the example above, assume that the buyer's shares stay at $10 and the seller's shares jump to $18. There will be a $2 gap that investors can secure by buying one seller share for $18 and shorting two buyer shares for $20.



If the deal closes, investors will receive two buyer shares in exchange for one seller share, closing out the short position and leaving investors with $20 in cash. Minus the initial outlay of $18, investors will net $2.
What Is an Exchange-Traded Derivative?  

An exchange-traded derivative is a financial contract that is listed and traded on a regulated exchange. Simply put, these are derivatives that are traded in a regulated environment.



Exchange-traded derivatives have become increasingly popular because of the advantages they have over over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives. These advantages include standardization, liquidity, and elimination of default risk.



Futures and options are two of the most popular exchange-traded derivatives. Exchange-traded derivatives can be used to hedge exposure and to speculate on a wide range of financial assets, including commodities, equities, currencies, and even interest rates.





Key Takeaways


An exchange-traded derivative is a security with a standardized financial contract that trades on a regulated exchange.
Exchange-traded derivatives settle through a clearinghouse and are guaranteed.
Clearinghouses include the Options Clearing Corporation (OCC) and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC).
Clearing trades through regulated clearinghouses reduces investment risk.
Exchange-traded derivatives are listed on exchanges such as the CBOE Global Markets and the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX), and are overseen by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).



   Understanding Exchange-Traded Derivatives  

Exchange-traded derivatives include options, futures, and other financial contracts that are listed and traded on regulated exchanges such as the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME), International Securities Exchange (ISE), the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), or the LIFFE exchange in London, to name a few.



Unlike their over-the-counter cousins, exchange-traded derivatives can be well suited for some retail investors. In the OTC market, it is easy to get lost in the complexity of the instrument and the exact nature of what is being traded.



In that regard, exchange-traded derivatives have two big advantages:


  Standardization  

The exchange has standardized terms and specifications for each derivative contract. This makes it easier for investors to determine essential information about what they're trading, such as the value of a contract, the amount of the security or item represented by a contract (e.g., lots), and how many contracts can be bought or sold.



Individual contracts can be a size that is less daunting for the small investor. For instance, an investor with limited capital could consider mini options (10 shares) on high-priced stocks versus standard options (100 shares).


  Elimination of Default Risk  

The exchange itself acts as the counterparty for each exchange-traded derivative transaction. It effectively becomes the seller for every buyer, and the buyer for every seller. This eliminates the risk of the counterparty to the derivative transaction defaulting on its obligations.



Another defining characteristic of exchange-traded derivatives is their mark-to-market feature. Mark to market means gains and losses on every derivative contract are calculated daily.



So, on any trading day, if the client incurs losses that erode the initial margin amount to a specific level, they will have to provide the required capital in a timely manner. If they don't, their derivative position may be closed out by the firm.






Financial futures are derivatives based on treasuries, indexes, currencies, and more. They're often used by financial institutions to hedge long positions held in the underlying security.


   Users of Exchange Traded Derivatives  

All kinds of small retail investors and large institutional investors use exchange-traded derivatives to hedge the value of portfolios and to speculate on price movements.



Banks might hedge the value of their treasuries portfolio by taking an opposite position in treasury futures. An import-export organization might use currency futures to lock in currency rates for impending transactions.



Retail investors might take a position in stock options to hedge the value of their stock portfolios. Or, they simply might want the premium income obtained by selling an option contract.



Most investors are reassured by the standardization and regulatory oversight offered by centralized exchanges.



However, the transparency of exchange-traded derivatives may be a hindrance to large institutions that may not want their trading intentions known to the public or their competitors.



In fact, institutional investors might opt to work directly with issuers and investment banks to create tailored investments that give them the exact risk and reward profile they seek.




What Information Does a Derivative Contract Include?
Generally, a contract will detail such things as the asset involved, the dollar value or amount (e.g., face amount or lot size) of the security, the settlement date and process, trading hours, price quotation, and the contract expiration date.




What Are Some Types of Derivatives Traded on an Exchange?
Some exchange traded derivatives include stock options, currency futures, options and swaps, and index futures.




Why Are Exchange Traded Derivatives Appealing to Investors?
Investors large and small appreciate the fact that these investments are understandable, reliable, and liquid. Contract features are clear. Parties to a contract must abide by it. Default risk is eliminated. Exchanges are regulated. Trust in financial markets translates to liquidity, which in turn means efficient access and pricing.
What Is an Exchange-Traded Fund (ETF)?  

An exchange-traded fund (ETF) is a type of pooled investment security that operates much like a mutual fund. Typically, ETFs will track a particular index, sector, commodity, or other assets, but unlike mutual funds, ETFs can be purchased or sold on a stock exchange the same way that a regular stock can. An ETF can be structured to track anything from the price of an individual commodity to a large and diverse collection of securities. ETFs can even be structured to track specific investment strategies.



The first ETF was the SPDR S&P 500 ETF (SPY), which tracks the S&P 500 Index, and which remains an actively traded ETF today.





Key Takeaways

An exchange-traded fund (ETF) is a basket of securities that trades on an exchange just like a stock does.ETF share prices fluctuate all day as the ETF is bought and sold; this is different from mutual funds, which only trade once a day after the market closes.ETFs can contain all types of investments, including stocks, commodities, or bonds; some offer U.S.-only holdings, while others are international.ETFs offer low expense ratios and fewer broker commissions than buying the stocks individually.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   Understanding Exchange-Traded Funds (ETFs)  

An ETF is called an exchange-traded fund because it’s traded on an exchange just like stocks are. The price of an ETF’s shares will change throughout the trading day as the shares are bought and sold on the market. This is unlike mutual funds, which are not traded on an exchange, and which trade only once per day after the markets close. Additionally, ETFs tend to be more cost-effective and more liquid compared to mutual funds.



An ETF is a type of fund that holds multiple underlying assets, rather than only one like a stock does. Because there are multiple assets within an ETF, they can be a popular choice for diversification. ETFs can thus contain many types of investments, including stocks, commodities, bonds, or a mixture of investment types.



An ETF can own hundreds or thousands of stocks across various industries, or it could be isolated to one particular industry or sector. Some funds focus on only U.S. offerings, while others have a global outlook. For example, banking-focused ETFs would contain stocks of various banks across the industry.



An ETF is a marketable security, meaning it has a share price that allows it to be easily bought and sold on exchanges throughout the day, and it can be sold short. In the United States, most ETFs are set up as open-ended funds and are subject to the Investment Company Act of 1940 except where subsequent rules have modified their regulatory requirements. Open-end funds do not limit the number of investors involved in the product.





Cash Invested in ETFs by Year


   Types of ETFs  

Various types of ETFs are available to investors that can be used for income generation, speculation, and price increases, and to hedge or partly offset risk in an investor’s portfolio. Here is a brief description of some of the ETFs available on the market today.


  Passive and Active ETFs  

ETFs are generally characterized as either passive or actively managed. Passive ETFs aim to replicate the performance of a broader index—either a diversified index such as the S&P 500 or a more specific targeted sector or trend. An example of the latter category is gold mining stocks: as of February 18, 2022, there are approximately eight ETFs which focus on companies engaged in gold mining, excluding inverse, leveraged, and funds with low assets under management (AUM).



Actively managed ETFs typically do not target an index of securities, but rather have portfolio managers making decisions about which securities to include in the portfolio. These funds have benefits over passive ETFs but tend to be more expensive to investors. We explore actively managed ETFs below.


  Bond ETFs  

Bond ETFs are used to provide regular income to investors. Their income distribution depends on the performance of underlying bonds. They might include government bonds, corporate bonds, and state and local bonds—called municipal bonds. Unlike their underlying instruments, bond ETFs do not have a maturity date. They generally trade at a premium or discount from the actual bond price.


  Stock ETFs  

Stock (equity) ETFs comprise a basket of stocks to track a single industry or sector. For example, a stock ETF might track automotive or foreign stocks. The aim is to provide diversified exposure to a single industry, one that includes high performers and new entrants with potential for growth. Unlike stock mutual funds, stock ETFs have lower fees and do not involve actual ownership of securities.


  Industry/Sector ETFs  

Industry or sector ETFs are funds that focus on a specific sector or industry. For example, an energy sector ETF will include companies operating in that sector. The idea behind industry ETFs is to gain exposure to the upside of that industry by tracking the performance of companies operating in that sector.



One example is the technology sector, which has witnessed an influx of funds in recent years. At the same time, the downside of volatile stock performance is also curtailed in an ETF because they do not involve direct ownership of securities. Industry ETFs are also used to rotate in and out of sectors during economic cycles.


  Commodity ETFs  

As their name indicates, commodity ETFs invest in commodities, including crude oil or gold. Commodity ETFs provide several benefits. First, they diversify a portfolio, making it easier to hedge downturns.



For example, commodity ETFs can provide a cushion during a slump in the stock market. Second, holding shares in a commodity ETF is cheaper than physical possession of the commodity. This is because the former does not involve insurance and storage costs.


  Currency ETFs  

Currency ETFs are pooled investment vehicles that track the performance of currency pairs, consisting of domestic and foreign currencies. Currency ETFs serve multiple purposes. They can be used to speculate on the prices of currencies based on political and economic developments for a country. They are also used to diversify a portfolio or as a hedge against volatility in forex markets by importers and exporters. Some of them are also used to hedge against the threat of inflation. There’s even an ETF option for bitcoin.


  Inverse ETFs  

Inverse ETFs attempt to earn gains from stock declines by shorting stocks. Shorting is selling a stock, expecting a decline in value, and repurchasing it at a lower price. An inverse ETF uses derivatives to short a stock. Essentially, they are bets that the market will decline.



When the market declines, an inverse ETF increases by a proportionate amount. Investors should be aware that many inverse ETFs are exchange-traded notes (ETNs) and not true ETFs. An ETN is a bond but trades like a stock and is backed by an issuer such as a bank. Be sure to check with your broker to determine if an ETN is a good fit for your portfolio.


  Leveraged ETFs  

A leveraged ETF seeks to return some multiples (e.g., 2× or 3×) on the return of the underlying investments. For instance, if the S&P 500 rises 1%, a 2× leveraged S&P 500 ETF will return 2% (and if the index falls by 1%, the ETF would lose 2%). These products use derivatives such as options or futures contracts to leverage their returns. There are also leveraged inverse ETFs, which seek an inverse multiplied return.





Tip

Order your copy of Investopedia's What To Do With $10,000 magazine for more wealth-building advice.


   How to Buy ETFs  

With a multiplicity of platforms available to traders, investing in ETFs has become fairly easy. Follow the steps outlined below to begin investing in ETFs.


  Find an Investing Platform  

ETFs are available on most online investing platforms, retirement account provider sites, and investing apps like Robinhood. Most of these platforms offer commission-free trading, meaning that you don’t have to pay fees to the platform providers to buy or sell ETFs.



However, a commission-free purchase or sale does not mean that the ETF provider will also provide access to their product without associated costs. Some areas in which platform services can distinguish their services from others are convenience, services, and product variety.



For example, smartphone investing apps enable ETF share purchasing at the tap of a button. This may not be the case for all brokerages, which may ask investors for paperwork or a more complicated situation. Some well-known brokerages, however, offer extensive educational content that helps new investors become familiar with and research ETFs.


  Research ETFs  

The second and most important step in ETF investing involves researching them. There is a wide variety of ETFs available in the markets today. One thing to remember during the research process is that ETFs are unlike individual securities such as stocks or bonds.



You will need to consider the whole picture—in terms of sector or industry—when you commit to an ETF. Here are some questions you might want to consider during the research process:



What is your time frame for investing?Are you investing for income or growth?Are there particular sectors or financial instruments that excite you?


  Consider a Trading Strategy  

If you are a beginning investor in ETFs, dollar-cost averaging or spreading out your investment costs over a period of time is a good trading strategy. This is because it smooths out returns over a period of time and ensures a disciplined (as opposed to a haphazard or volatile) approach to investing.



It also helps beginning investors learn more about the nuances of ETF investing. When they become more comfortable with trading, investors can move out to more sophisticated strategies like swing trading and sector rotation.


   Online Brokers vs. Traditional Brokers  

ETFs trade through both online brokers and traditional broker-dealers. You can view some of the top brokers in the industry for ETFs with Investopedia’s list of the best brokers for ETFs. You can also typically purchase ETFs in your retirement account. One alternative to standard brokers is a robo-advisor like Betterment and Wealthfront, which make extensive use of ETFs in their investment products.



A brokerage account allows investors to trade shares of ETFs just as they would trade shares of stocks. Hands-on investors may opt for a traditional brokerage account, while investors looking to take a more passive approach may opt for a robo-advisor. Robo-advisors often include ETFs in their portfolios, although they choice of whether to focus on ETFs or individual stocks may not be up to the investor.


   What to Look for in an ETF  

After creating a brokerage account, investors will need to fund that account before investing in ETFs. The exact ways to fund your brokerage account will be depend on the broker. After funding your account, you can search for ETFs and make buys and sells in the same way that you would shares of stocks. One of the best ways to narrow your ETF options is to utilize an ETF screening tool. Many brokers offer these tools as a way to sort through the thousands of ETF offerings. You can typically search for ETFs according to some of the following criteria:



Volume: Trading volume over a particular period of time allows you to compare the popularity of different funds; the higher the trading volume, the easier it may be to trade that fund.Expenses: The lower the expense ratio, the less of your investment that is given over to administrative costs. While it may be tempting to always search for funds with the lowest expense ratios, sometimes costlier funds (such as actively managed ETFs) have strong enough performance that it more than makes up for the higher fees.Performance: While past performance is not an indication of future returns, this is nonetheless a common metric for comparing ETFs.Holdings: The portfolios of different funds often factor into screener tools as well, allowing customers to compare the different holdings of each possible ETF investment.Commissions: Many ETFs are commission-free, meaning that they can be traded without any fees to complete the trade. However, it is worth checking if this is a potential dealbreaker.


   Examples of Popular ETFs  

Below are examples of popular ETFs on the market today. Some ETFs track an index of stocks, thus creating a broad portfolio, while others target specific industries.



The SPDR S&P 500 (SPY): The “Spider” is the oldest surviving and most widely known ETF that tracks the S&P 500 Index.
The iShares Russell 2000 (IWM) tracks the Russell 2000 small-cap index.
The Invesco QQQ (QQQ) (“cubes”) tracks the Nasdaq 100 Index, which typically contains technology stocks.
The SPDR Dow Jones Industrial Average (DIA) (“diamonds”) represents the 30 stocks of the Dow Jones Industrial Average.
Sector ETFs track individual industries and sectors such as oil (OIH), energy (XLE), financial services (XLF), real estate investment trusts (IYR), and biotechnology (BBH).
Commodity ETFs represent commodity markets, including gold (GLD), silver (SLV), crude oil (USO), and natural gas (UNG).
Country ETFs track the primary stock indexes in foreign countries, but they are traded in the United States and denominated in U.S. dollars. Examples include China (MCHI), Brazil (EWZ), Japan (EWJ), and Israel (EIS). Others track a wide breadth of foreign markets, such as ones that track emerging market economies (EEM) and developed market economies (EFA).


   Advantages and Disadvantages of ETFs  

ETFs provide lower average costs because it would be expensive for an investor to buy all the stocks held in an ETF portfolio individually. Investors only need to execute one transaction to buy and one transaction to sell, which leads to fewer broker commissions because there are only a few trades being done by investors.



Brokers typically charge a commission for each trade. Some brokers even offer no-commission trading on certain low-cost ETFs, reducing costs for investors even further.



An ETF’s expense ratio is the cost to operate and manage the fund. ETFs typically have low expenses because they track an index. For example, if an ETF tracks the S&P 500 Index, it might contain all 500 stocks from the S&P, making it a passively managed fund that is less time-intensive. However, not all ETFs track an index in a passive manner, and may therefore have a higher expense ratio.





Pros

Access to many stocks across various industries
Low expense ratios and fewer broker commissions
Risk management through diversification
ETFs exist that focus on targeted industries



Cons

Actively managed ETFs have higher fees
Single-industry-focused ETFs limit diversification
Lack of liquidity hinders transactions





   Actively Managed ETFs  

There are also actively managed ETFs, wherein portfolio managers are more involved in buying and selling shares of companies and changing the holdings within the fund. Typically, a more actively managed fund will have a higher expense ratio than passively managed ETFs.



To make sure that an ETF is worth holding, it is important that investors determine how the fund is managed, whether it’s actively or passively managed, the resulting expense ratio, and the costs vs. the rate of return.





Active vs. Passive Equity Funds


   Special Considerations  
  Indexed-Stock ETFs  

An indexed-stock ETF provides investors with the diversification of an index fund as well as the ability to sell short, buy on margin, and purchase as little as one share because there are no minimum deposit requirements. However, not all ETFs are equally diversified. Some may contain a heavy concentration in one industry, or a small group of stocks, or assets that are highly correlated to each other.


  Dividends and ETFs  

Though ETFs provide investors with the ability to gain as stock prices rise and fall, they also benefit from companies that pay dividends. Dividends are a portion of earnings allocated or paid by companies to investors for holding their stock. ETF shareholders are entitled to a proportion of the profits, such as earned interest or dividends paid, and may get a residual value if the fund is liquidated.


  ETFs and Taxes  

An ETF is more tax-efficient than a mutual fund because most buying and selling occur through an exchange and the ETF sponsor does not need to redeem shares each time an investor wishes to sell or issue new shares each time an investor wishes to buy.



Redeeming shares of a fund can trigger a tax liability, so listing the shares on an exchange can keep tax costs lower. In the case of a mutual fund, each time an investor sells their shares, they sell it back to the fund and incur a tax liability that must be paid by the shareholders of the fund.


  ETFs’ Market Impact  

Because ETFs have become increasingly popular with investors, many new funds have been created, resulting in low trading volumes for some of them. The result can lead to investors not being able to easily buy and sell shares of a low-volume ETF.



Concerns have surfaced about the influence of ETFs on the market and whether demand for these funds can inflate stock values and create fragile bubbles. Some ETFs rely on portfolio models that are untested in different market conditions and can lead to extreme inflows and outflows from the funds, which have a negative impact on market stability.



Since the financial crisis, ETFs have played major roles in market flash-crashes and instability. Problems with ETFs were significant factors in the flash crashes and market declines in May 2010, August 2015, and February 2018.


   ETF Creation and Redemption  

The supply of ETF shares is regulated through a mechanism known as creation and redemption, which involves large specialized investors called authorized participants (APs).


  ETF Creation  

When an ETF wants to issue additional shares, the AP buys shares of the stocks from the index—such as the S&P 500 tracked by the fund—and sells or exchanges them to the ETF for new ETF shares at an equal value. In turn, the AP sells the ETF shares in the market for a profit. When an AP sells stocks to the ETF sponsor in return for shares in the ETF, the block of shares used in the transaction is called a creation unit.


  Creation When Shares Trade at a Premium   

Imagine an ETF that invests in the stocks of the S&P 500 and has a share price of $101 at the close of the market. If the value of the stocks that the ETF owns was only worth $100 on a per-share basis, then the fund’s price of $101 is trading at a premium to the fund’s net asset value (NAV). The NAV is an accounting mechanism that determines the overall value of the assets or stocks in an ETF.



An AP has an incentive to bring the ETF share price back into equilibrium with the fund’s NAV. To do this, the AP will buy shares of the stocks that the ETF wants to hold in its portfolio from the market and sells them to the fund in return for shares of the ETF.



In this example, the AP is buying stock on the open market worth $100 per share but getting shares of the ETF that are trading on the open market for $101 per share. This process is called creation and increases the number of ETF shares on the market. If everything else remains the same, then increasing the number of shares available on the market will reduce the price of the ETF and bring shares in line with the NAV of the fund.


  ETF Redemption  

Conversely, an AP also buys shares of the ETF on the open market. The AP then sells these shares back to the ETF sponsor in exchange for individual stock shares that the AP can sell on the open market. As a result, the number of ETF shares is reduced through the process called redemption.



The amount of redemption and creation activity is a function of demand in the market and whether the ETF is trading at a discount or premium to the value of the fund’s assets.


  Redemption When Shares Trade at a Discount  

Imagine an ETF that holds the stocks in the Russell 2000 small-cap index and is currently trading for $99 per share. If the value of the stocks that the ETF is holding in the fund is $100 per share, then the ETF is trading at a discount to its NAV.



To bring the ETF’s share price back to its NAV, an AP will buy shares of the ETF on the open market and sell them back to the ETF in return for shares of the underlying stock portfolio. In this example, the AP is able to buy ownership of $100 worth of stock in exchange for ETF shares that it bought for $99. This process is called redemption, and it decreases the supply of ETF shares on the market. When the supply of ETF shares is decreased, the price should rise and get closer to its NAV.


   ETFs vs. Mutual Funds vs. Stocks  

Comparing features for ETFs, mutual funds, and stocks can be a challenge in a world of ever-changing broker fees and policies. Most stocks, ETFs, and mutual funds can be bought and sold without a commission. Funds and ETFs differ from stocks because of the management fees that most of them carry, though they have been trending lower for many years. In general, ETFs tend to have lower average fees than mutual funds. Here is a comparison of other similarities and differences.










 Exchange-Traded Funds
Mutual Funds
Stocks




Exchange-traded funds (ETFs) are a type of index funds that track a basket of securities.
Mutual funds are pooled investments into bonds, securities, and other instruments that provide returns.
Stocks are securities that provide returns based on performance.


ETF prices can trade at a premium or at a loss to the net asset value (NAV) of the fund.
Mutual fund prices trade at the net asset value of the overall fund.
Stock returns are based on their actual performance in the markets.


ETFs are traded in the markets during regular hours just like stocks are.
Mutual funds can be redeemed only at the end of a trading day.
Stocks are traded during regular market hours.


Some ETFs can be purchased commission-free and are cheaper than mutual funds because they do not charge marketing fees.
Some mutual funds do not charge load fees, but most are more expensive than ETFs because they charge administrative and marketing fees.
Stocks can be purchased commission-free on some platforms and generally do not have charges associated with them after purchase.


ETFs do not involve actual ownership of securities.
Mutual funds own the securities in their basket.
Stocks involve physical ownership of the security.


ETFs diversify risk by tracking different companies in a sector or industry in a single fund.
Mutual funds diversify risk by creating a portfolio that spans multiple asset classes and security instruments.
Risk is concentrated in a stock’s performance.


ETF trading occurs in-kind, meaning they cannot be redeemed for cash.
Mutual fund shares can be redeemed for money at the fund’s net asset value for that day.
Stocks are bought and sold using cash.


Because ETF share exchanges are treated as in-kind distributions, ETFs are the most tax-efficient among all three types of financial instruments.
Mutual funds offer tax benefits when they return capital or include certain types of tax-exempt bonds in their portfolio.
Stocks are taxed at either ordinary income tax rates or capital gains rates.





   Evaluating ETFs  

The ETF space has grown at a tremendous pace in recent years, reaching $4 trillion in invested assets by 2019. The dramatic increase in options available to ETF investors has complicated the process of evaluating which funds may be best for you. Below are a few considerations you may wish to keep in mind when comparing ETFs.


  Expenses  

The expense ratio of an ETF reflects how much you will pay toward the fund's operation and management. Although passive funds tend to have lower expense ratios than actively managed ETFs, there is still a wide range of expense ratios even within these categories. Comparing expense ratios is a key consideration in the overall investment potential of an ETF.


  Diversification  

Nearly all ETFs provide diversification benefits relative to an individual stock purchase. Still, some ETFs are highly concentrated—either in the number of different securities they hold or in the weighting of those securities. A fund that concentrates half of its assets in two or three positions may offer less diversification than a fund with fewer total portfolio constituents but broader asset distribution, for example.


  Liquidity  

ETFs with very low AUM or low daily trading averages tend to incur higher trading costs due to liquidity barriers. This is an important factor to consider when comparing funds that may otherwise be similar in strategy or portfolio content.


   Buying ETFs in the UK  

The UK ETF market is one of the largest and most diverse in Europe, with more than 2,000 ETFs listed on the London Stock Exchange (LSE) that offer exposure to various asset classes and markets, including equities, fixed income, commodities, currencies, real estate, and alternative investments



One of the main advantages of buying ETFs in the UK is that they are eligible for inclusion in Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs), which are tax-efficient savings vehicles that allow investors to invest up to £20,000 per year without paying any income or capital gains tax on their returns. Another benefit is that ETFs attract no stamp duty, which is a tax levied on ordinary share transactions in the UK.



As a UK investor, you can buy shares in US-listed companies from the UK, but due to local and European regulations, you're not allowed to purchase US-listed exchange-traded funds (ETFs) in the UK. But, there are UK-based ETFs that track U.S. markets, as long as it has the ‘UCITS’ moniker in the name. This means the fund is fully regulated in the UK and allowed to track U.S. investments.



For broad-based exposure to UK equities, there are several UCITS ETFs that track the FTSE 100 index,  which consists of the 100 largest publicly listed companies in the United Kingdom. The HSBC FTSE UCITS ETF, for example, is listed on the London Stock Exchange and trades under the ticker symbol HUKX. The ETF has an ongoing charge of 0.07% and a dividend yield of 3.52% as of 2023. Other ETFs are available that track the FTSE All-Share index, which tracks all UK-based companies admitted to the main market of the London Stock Exchange, and the MSCI UK index, which tracks large and mid cap equity market performance of United Kingdom. 




What Was the First Exchange-Traded Fund (ETF)?
The first exchange-traded fund (ETF) is often credited to the SPDR S&P 500 ETF (SPY) launched by State Street Global Advisors on Jan. 22, 1993. There were, however, some precursors to the SPY, notably securities called Index Participation Units listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX) that tracked the Toronto 35 Index that appeared in 1990.




How Is an ETF Different From an Index Fund?
An index fund usually refers to a mutual fund that tracks an index. An index ETF is constructed in much the same way and will hold the stocks of an index, tracking it. However, the difference between an index fund and an ETF is that an ETF tends to be more cost-effective and liquid than an index mutual fund. You can also buy an ETF directly on a stock exchange throughout the day, while a mutual fund trades via a broker only at the close of each trading day.




How Do ETFs Work?
An ETF provider creates an ETF based on a particular methodology and sells shares of that fund to investors. The provider buys and sells the constituent securities of the ETF's portfolio. While investors do not own the underlying assets, they may still be eligible for dividend payments, reinvestments, and other benefits.




What Is an ETF Account?
In most cases, it is not necessary to create a special account to invest in ETFs. One of the primary draws of ETFs is that they are more liquid because they can be traded throughout the day and with the flexibility of stocks. For this reason, it is typically possible to invest in ETFs with a basic brokerage account.




What Does an ETF Cost?
ETFs have administrative and overhead costs which are generally covered by investors. These costs are known as the "expense ratio," and typically represent a small percentage of an investment. The growth of the ETF industry has generally driven expense ratios lower, making ETFs among the most affordable investment vehicles. Still, there can be a wide range of expense ratios depending upon the type of ETF and its investment strategy.


   The Bottom Line  

Exchange-traded funds, or ETFs, represent a cost-effective way to gain exposure to a broad basket of securities with a limited budget. Instead of buying individual stocks, the investor can simply buy shares of a fund that targets a representative cross-section of the wider market. However, there are some additional expenses to keep in mind when investing in an ETF.



Spanish Translation of Exchange-Traded Fund (ETF)






Subscribe to 'Term of the Day' and learn a new financial term every day. Stay informed and make smart financial decisions. Sign up now.
What Are Exchange-Traded Notes (ETNs)?  

Exchange-traded notes (ETNs) are types of unsecured debt securities that track an underlying index of securities and trade on a major exchange like a stock. ETNs are similar to bonds but do not have interest payments. Instead, the prices of ETNs fluctuate like stocks.





Key Takeaways

An exchange-traded note (ETN) is an unsecured debt security that tracks an underlying index of securities.ETNs are similar to bonds but do not pay periodic interest payments.Investors can buy and sell ETNs on major exchanges, such as stocks, and profit from the difference, subtracting any fees.


   How Exchange-Traded Notes Work  

An ETN is typically issued by financial institutions and bases its return on a market index. ETNs are a type of bond. At maturity, the ETN will pay the return of the index it tracks. However, ETNs do not pay any interest payments like a bond.



When the ETN matures, the financial institution takes out fees, then gives the investor cash based on the performance of the underlying index. Since ETNs trade on major exchanges like stocks, investors can buy and sell ETNs and make money from the difference between the purchase and sale prices, minus any fees.



ETNs are different than exchange-traded funds (ETFs). ETFs own the securities in the index they track. For example, an ETF that tracks the S&P 500 will own all 500 stocks in the S&P.



ETNs do not provide investors ownership of the securities but are merely paid the return that the index produces. As a result, ETNs are similar to debt securities. The investors must trust that the issuer will make good on the return based on the underlying index.



ETNs were first issued by Barclays Bank PLC in 2006. Banks and other financial institutions typically issue ETNs at $50 per share. Part of the market price depends on how the underlying index is performing.


   Risk From an ETN Issuer  

The repayment of the principal invested depends, in part, on the performance of the underlying index. If the index either goes down or does not go up enough to cover the fees involved in the transaction, the investor will receive a lower amount at maturity than what was originally invested.



The ETN's ability to pay back the principal—plus gains from the index it tracks—depends on the financial viability of the issuer. As a result, an ETN's value is impacted by the credit rating of the issuer. The value of the ETN could decline due to a downgrade in the issuer's credit rating, even though there was no change in the underlying index.



Investors must be aware of the risk that the issuer of an ETN may be unable to repay the principal and default on the bond. Also, political, economic, legal, or regulatory changes may affect the financial institution's ability to pay ETN investors on time.



The financial institution issuing the ETN might use options to achieve the return from the index, which can increase the risk of losses to investors. Options are agreements that can magnify gains or losses where the issuer has the right to transact shares of stocks by paying a premium in the options market. Options are usually short-term contracts, and the premiums can fluctuate wildly based on market conditions.



Investors also have closure risk, meaning the issuer might be able to close the ETN before maturity. In this case, the investor would be paid the prevailing price in the market. If the sale price is lower than the purchase price, the investor can realize a loss. The early redemption feature of an ETN is stated upfront.


   Risk in Tracking an Index  

The price of the ETN should track the index closely, but there can be times when it does not correlate well—called tracking errors. Tracking errors happen if there are credit issues with the issuer and the price of the ETN deviates from the underlying index.


   Risks From Liquidity  

If a financial institution decides not to issue new ETNs for a period, prices of existing ETNs could jump significantly due to the lack of supply. As a result, existing ETNs could trade at a premium to the value of the index it tracks. Conversely, if the bank suddenly decides to issue additional ETNs, prices of existing ETNs could fall due to excess supply.



Trading activity for ETNs can be low or fluctuate dramatically. The result can be ETN prices that are trading at far higher prices than their actual value for those looking to buy. Also, these products may sell at far lower prices than their value for investors looking to sell. Due to the varying prices of ETNs, investors who sell an ETN before maturity can realize a large loss or gain.





Pros

ETN investors earn profit if the underlying index is higher at maturity.
Investors don't need to own the underlying securities of the index they track.
Exchange-traded notes trade on major exchanges.



Cons

Exchange-traded notes don't make regular interest payments.
ETNs have default risk since the repayment of principal is contingent on the issuer's financial viability.
Trading volume can be low causing ETN prices to trade at a premium.
Tracking errors can occur if the ETN doesn't track the underlying index closely.





   Tax Treatment of ETNs  

Typically, the difference between the purchase price and selling price of the ETN should be treated as a capital gain or loss for income tax purposes. The investor may defer the gain until the ETN is sold or matures. However, investors should seek counsel from a tax professional for any potential tax ramifications that might exist for their specific situation.


   Real-World Example of an ETN  

The JPMorgan Alerian MLP Index ETN (AMJ) is an energy infrastructure ETN. It tracks companies in the energy sector that are master limited partnerships (MLPs). MLPs are publicly traded partnerships some of which are responsible for building the energy infrastructure in the U.S.



AMJ has over $2.5 billion in assets and an expense ratio of 0.85%. Over the past five years, the ETN has traded between $8 and $30 per share.



It is important that investors consider the risks present with ETNs. These risks include not only the credit risk of the issuer but also the risk that the ETN's share price could decline significantly as in the case of AMJ.
What Is an Exchange Traded Product (ETP)?  

Exchange traded products (ETPs) are types of securities that track underlying securities, an index, or other financial instruments. ETPs trade on exchanges similar to stocks meaning their prices can fluctuate from day-to-day and intraday. However, the prices of ETPs are derived from the underlying investments that they track.





Key Takeaways

Exchange-traded products (ETP) are types of securities that track underlying security, index, or financial instrument.ETPs trade on exchanges similar to stocks.The price of ETPs fluctuates from day-to-day and intraday.The share price of ETPs come from the underlying investments that they track.ETPs are usually a low-cost alternative to mutual funds and actively-managed funds.


   Types of Exchange Traded Products  

Exchange traded products can be benchmarked to myriad investments, including commodities, currencies, stocks, and bonds. Since prices of ETPs can fluctuate, investors have the potential to earn gains but also have the risk of market losses. ETPs can contain a few or hundreds of underlying investments.


  Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs)  

Similar to a mutual fund, an exchange traded fund contains a basket of investments that can include stocks and bonds. An ETF usually tracks an underlying index such as the S&P 500 but can follow an industry, sector, commodities, or even currency. An exchange-traded fund's price can rise and fall just like other investments. These products trade throughout the day just as a stock would trade.



The popularity surrounding ETFs stems from their low fees since they are passively managed. For example, a passively-managed ETF might track the S&P 500 index. Here, the ETF owns all 500 stocks contained in the index. Conversely, an actively-managed fund involves an investment manager buying and selling securities, which can lead to higher fees. Some ETFs share a combination of both passive and active attributes.


  Exchange Traded Notes (ETNs)  

Exchange traded notes (ETNs), like ETFs, also track an underlying index of securities and trade on major exchanges. However, ETNs are baskets of unsecured debt securities. The ETN pays investors the return received from the index they track at the maturity date, less any fees or commissions.



ETNs are similar to bonds in that investors receive the return of their original invested amount—the principal—at maturity. However, the ETN does not pay periodic interest payments. Also, investors who buy ETNs do not own any of the securities in the index they track. As a result, the likelihood that investors will be paid back the principal and the returns from the underlying index is dependent on the creditworthiness of the issuer.



Different tax treatments apply to the various types of ETPs. Investors should speak with a tax professional for any potential tax ramifications from investing in ETPs.


   Exchange Traded Products vs. Mutual Funds  

Exchange traded products were developed to create investments that had more flexibility than mutual funds. Mutual funds are funds comprised of a basket of securities funded by a collection of investors and managed by professional money managers.



Mutual funds are typically priced just once at the end of the trading day. ETPs trade like stocks and can be bought and sold throughout the day and have prices that move throughout the day. For example, an investor can place an order with ETFs to buy or sell at a specific price with a broker. Investors can buy the ETF in the morning and sell it by the end of the day, whereas mutual funds do not have that flexibility. ETPs often carry lower expense ratios than their mutual fund counterparts.



ETPs also require a brokerage account to trade, so buying and selling ETP shares could result in a brokerage commission if it isn't one of the ETFs that the brokerage allows to be traded freely. Most highly liquid ETPs can be traded without a commission charge in all the major discount brokers. Additionally, differences in the bid and ask—buy and sell—price could add to the cost of trading ETPs. Some no-load or no-fee mutual funds, on the other hand, can be bought and sold without any trading commission, and they do not require a brokerage account.





Pros

ETPs offer investors access to many securities and indices.
ETPs are usually a low-cost alternative to mutual funds and actively-managed funds.
Many ETPs, particularly ETFs, are gaining in popularity, providing additional liquidity.



Cons

ETPs have the risk of market losses since their prices fluctuate.
Some ETPs behave like debt instruments such as ETNs.
ETPs are popular products but have varying trading volumes, which can affect liquidity.





   Growth of Exchange Traded Products  

Since the debut of the first ETF in 1993, these funds and other ETPs have grown significantly in size and popularity.﻿﻿ According to ETFGI, in 2020, worldwide, ETFs had over US$7 trillion in total assets under management (AUM).﻿﻿ The low-cost structure of ETPs has contributed to their popularity, which has attracted assets away from higher-cost actively managed funds.


   Real-World Example of an Exchange Traded Product  

The largest ETF in the marketplace is the SPDR S&P 500 ETF (SPY), with assets of more than US$300 billion as of March 2021. The ETF owns shares of all 500 stocks in the S&P including some of the most well-established companies in the world such as:



Mastercard Inc.Home Depot Inc.McDonald's Corp.Meta (formerly Facebook)JPMorgan Chase & Co.Amazon.com Inc.



Let's say an investor invested $10,000 in the SPY on January 1, 2017, for $227.21 and sold the ETF on March 31, 2019, for $288.57; the investor would have a gain of 27% minus any broker fees.
What Is an Excise Tax?  

An excise tax is a legislated tax on specific goods or services at the time they are purchased. Goods subject to excise taxes could be fuel, tobacco, and alcohol, among others. Excise taxes are intranational taxes imposed within a government infrastructure rather than international taxes imposed across country borders. A federal excise tax is usually collected from motor fuel sales, airline tickets, tobacco, and other goods and services.





Key Takeaways

Excise taxes are taxes required on specific goods or services like fuel, tobacco, and alcohol.They are primarily taxes that must be paid by businesses, usually increasing prices for consumers indirectly.Excise taxes can be ad valorem (paid by percentage) or specific (cost charged by unit).Sin taxes are a form of excise tax on goods that have a high social cost, such as alcohol and tobacco.Some excise taxes can be required directly from the consumer like property taxes and excise tax penalties on certain retirement account activities.












Investopedia / Crea Taylor


   How an Excise Tax Works  

Excise taxes are primarily for businesses. Many of them are paid by merchants who then pass the tax on to consumers through higher prices. Merchants pay excise taxes to wholesalers and consider them in product pricing which increases the retail price overall. As such, consumers may or may not see the cost of most excise taxes directly. But there are some excise taxes that are paid directly by consumers, including property taxes and levies on certain retirement account activities.



Federal, state, and local governments have the authority to institute excise taxes. While income tax is the primary revenue generator for federal and state governments, excise tax revenue also makes up a small portion of total revenue.



Excise taxes are primarily business taxes. They are separate from other taxes that corporations must pay, such as income taxes. Businesses charging and receiving excise taxes are required to file Form 720 Federal Excise Tax Return on a quarterly basis and include quarterly payments. Business collectors of excise taxes must also maintain their obligations for passing on excise taxes to state and local governments as required. Merchants may be allowed deductions or credits on their annual income tax returns related to excise tax payments.



Excise taxes can fall into one of two categories:



Ad Valorem Taxes: Excise taxes that are fixed percentage rates assessed on particular goods or services
Specific Taxes: Excise taxes of a fixed dollar amount applied to certain purchases



In some cases, governments levy excise taxes on goods that have a high social cost, such as cigarettes and alcohol. These types of excise these taxes are sometimes called sin taxes because the good being taxed is "sinful" or has negative consequences associated with it.






The largest revenue-producing excise taxes in the U.S. come from motor fuel, airline tickets, tobacco, alcohol, health-related goods, and health-related services.


   Ad Valorem Excise Taxes  

Ad valorem is a Latin phrase that literally means according to value. An ad valorem tax is charged on a percentage basis. This results in an excise tax that is based on the value of the product or service.



For example, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) levies a 10% excise tax on indoor tanning services. This means that if a tanning salon charges $100 for a tanning session, it must pay the IRS $10 in excise tax. If the company charges $200 for tanning, it must pay a $20 excise tax.



Other types of ad valorem excise taxes include firearms (10%), airline tickets (7.5%), and heavy trucks (12%). Property taxes can also be considered a type of ad valorem excise tax.


   Specific Excise Taxes  

Specific excise taxes are a set tax or fee added to a certain product on a per-unit basis. Some examples of federal, specific excise taxes include cigarettes ($1.01 per pack of 20), pipe tobacco ($2.83 per pound), beer ($3.50 for the first 60,000 barrels), cruise ship passengers ($3 per passenger), and gasoline ($0.183 per gallon).



Sin taxes on targeted goods like beer and alcohol will often be taxed at the federal level and also taxed again by the state, making the cost of these items higher. For example, New York has a specific excise tax of $4.35 per cigarette pack of 20. Combining this with the federal tax of $1.01 makes the excise taxes alone $5.36. These taxes have a considerable impact on the consumer.






The IRS provides guidance on excise taxes in Publication 510.


   Excise Taxes on Retirement Accounts  

Excise taxes are also charged on some retirement account activities. Many people are familiar with these taxes as penalties. A 6% excise tax is applied to excess individual retirement account (IRA) contributions that are not corrected by the applicable deadline. A 10% excise tax penalty applies to distributions from certain IRAs and other qualified plans when an investor makes withdrawals before age 59½.



Also, a 25% excise tax penalty is charged when investors do not take the mandatory required minimum distributions (RMDs) from certain retirement accounts, though this tax is reduced to 10% if the missed distribution is taken before the end of the "correction window." The correction window starts on the date the penalty is imposed, usually January 1st after the year you missed the distribution. The window ends on the earliest of:



The date the penalty is assessed by the IRSThe date the IRS sends a notice of deficiencyThe last day of the second taxable year after the penalty is imposed






As of January 1, 2023, RMDs are mandatory starting at age 73 for owners of traditional IRA accounts and several other tax-deferred retirement savings plans.




Who Pays Excise Taxes?
Excise taxes are imposed on certain goods and services, such as gasoline and alcohol. These taxes are paid directly by businesses. This tax is often passed on to the consumer, who may or may not be aware that they're paying it to the merchant because it's included in the price. This is common in the fuel industry, where companies include excise taxes on the price at the pump that is paid by their customers.




What Is a Federal Excise Tax?
A federal excise tax is charged on certain goods and services by the federal government. It may or may not be included by the merchant into the price. This means that consumers don't pay these taxes directly as they would any other type of tax, such as income taxes. Federal excise taxes are commonly imposed on things like fuel, airline tickets, tobacco, and alcohol.




How Is an Excise Tax Different From a Sales Tax?
Excise and sales taxes are two very different types of taxes. An excise tax is imposed on very specific goods and is generally the responsibility of the merchant to pay to the government. The merchant, in turn, may or may not pass the tax on to the consumer by adding it into the price. A sales tax, on the other hand, is charged on almost everything and is collected from the consumer by the merchant who passes it on to the government. Rather than being a fixed amount like an excise tax, the sales tax is a percentage of the price of the good or service. So the tax on a $25 sweater would be lower than the sales tax on a $200 television set.


   The Bottom Line  

Excise taxes are assessed by federal and state governments on certain goods and services. They are paid by the merchants that sell them. Excise taxes can be a flat tax amount, known as a specific excise tax, or a percentage of the cost of the good, known as an ad valorem excise tax.



Businesses often add the cost of an excise tax directly onto the price of the taxed good, so the tax is passed onto the customer. Customers may or may not know they are paying the cost of the excise tax on top of the price of the good or service. Some companies are transparent about excise taxes, though, like fuel companies. Next time you go to fill up your gas tank, take a look at the pump. The company may break down how much of the price at the pump goes toward the fuel itself versus how much you pay in taxes.
What Is an Exculpatory Clause?  

An exculpatory clause is a contract provision that relieves one party of liability if damages are caused during the execution of the contract. The party that issues the exculpatory clause is typically the one seeking to be relieved of the potential liability.



For example, a venue may print an exculpatory clause on tickets it sells for a concert, indicating that it is not responsible for personal injury caused by employees or others during the show.





Key Takeaways

An exculpatory clause is language found in a contract that relieves on party from liability resulting from the normal execution of that contract.Disclaimers are one common example of exculpatory language found in a range of contexts.An exculpatory clause runs the risk of being rendered invalid if there is an intent to deceive or commit fraud under the terms and conditions of the policy.


   Understanding Exculpatory Clauses  

Exculpatory clauses are often included in agreements where a service provider can come into contact with the personal property, possessions, or physical well-being of a customer. When a patron visits a restaurant or bar that offers coat-check service, the venue might inform the customer that the business is not responsible for items that go missing from their coat. Likewise, the operator of a parking facility might post signs indicating that damages to vehicles stored at the facility and thefts that occur are not the responsibility of the company.



Enforcement of exculpatory clauses may be challenged in court. If a court finds that an exculpatory clause is unreasonable, the clause will not be upheld. The court can also determine that the clause is unreasonable if both parties in the contract do not have equal bargaining power or if the clause eliminates liability for negligence.


   Limitations of Exculpatory Clauses  

Special conditions can also be included in an exculpatory clause to indicate circumstances when a party does not assume liability for damages. Passengers in vehicles operated by a third party are often informed of safe behavior and actions that are permitted on their journey. If the passengers fail to abide by those rules and put themselves and other passengers at risk, the operator of the vehicle might invoke the terms of their exculpatory clause if injuries occur.



For example, flight attendants instruct passengers on the proper use of the available safety devices and equipment before each flight takes off. Passengers who disregard these instructions and act in defiance of these instructions may be held accountable for any harm that befalls them.



Arguments made against exculpatory clauses might focus on how they are presented. Some of the measures for enforceability include whether the clause was displayed or made known in a conspicuous manner that all parties could readily find. The language of the clause must also be made clear and understandable for all parties.
What Is an Execution?  

Execution is the completion of a buy or sell order for a security. The execution of an order occurs when it gets filled, not when the investor places it. When the investor submits the trade, it is sent to a broker, who then determines the best way for it to be executed.





Key Takeaways

Execution refers to filling a buy or sell order in the market, subject to conditions placed on the order by the end client.There are several ways to execute a trade and they encompass manual as well as automated methods. Brokers are required by law to find the best possible means to execute a client's trade.


   Understanding Execution  

Brokers are required by law to give investors the best execution possible. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requires brokers to report the quality of their executions on a stock by stock basis as well as to notify customers who did not have their orders routed for best execution. The cost of executing trades has been significantly reduced due to the growth of online brokers. Many brokers offer their customers a commission rebate if they execute a certain amount of trades or dollar value per month. This is particularly important for short-term traders where execution costs need to be kept as low as possible.



If the order placed is a market order or an order which can be converted into a market order relatively quickly, then the chances that it will be settled at the desired price are high. But there might be instances, especially in the case of a large order that is broken down into several small orders, when it might be difficult to execute at the best possible price range. In such cases, an execution risk is introduced into the system. The risk refers to the lag between the placement of an order and its settlement.


   How Orders Get Executed  

Order to the Floor: This can be time-consuming because a human trader processes the transaction. The floor broker needs to receive the order and fill it.
Order to Market Maker: On exchanges such as the Nasdaq, market makers are responsible for providing liquidity. The investor's broker may direct the trade to one of these market makers for execution.
Electronic Communications Network (ECN): An efficient method, whereby computer systems electronically match up buy and sell orders.
Internalization: If the broker holds an inventory of the stock in question, it may decide to execute the order in-house. Brokers refer to this as an internal crossing.


   Best Execution and Broker Obligations  

By law, brokers are obligated to give each of their investors the best possible order execution. There is, however, the debate over whether this happens, or if brokers are routing the orders for other reasons, like the additional revenue streams we outlined above.



Let's say, for example, you want to buy 1,000 shares of the TSJ Sports Conglomerate, which is selling at the current price of $40. You place the market order, and it gets filled at $40.10. That means the order costs you an additional $100. Some brokers state that they always "fight for an extra one-sixteenth," but in reality, the opportunity for price improvement is simply an opportunity and not a guarantee. Also, when the broker tries for a better price (for a limit order), the speed and the likelihood of execution diminishes. However, the market itself, and not the broker, may be the culprit of an order not being executed at the quoted price, especially in fast-moving markets.



It is somewhat of a high-wire act that brokers walk in trying to execute trades in the best interest of their clients as well as their own. But as we will learn, the SEC has put measures in place to tilt the scale toward the client's best interests.



The SEC has taken steps to ensure that investors get the best execution, with rules forcing brokers to report the quality of executions on a stock-by-stock basis, including how market orders are executed and what the execution price is compared to the public quote's effective spreads. In addition, when a broker, while executing an order from an investor using a limit order, provides the execution at a better price than the public quotes, that broker must report the details of these better prices. With these rules in place, it is much easier to determine which brokers get the best prices and which ones use them only as a marketing pitch.



Additionally, the SEC requires broker/dealers to notify their customers if their orders are not routed for best execution. Typically, this disclosure is on the trade confirmation slip you receive after placing your order. Unfortunately, this disclaimer almost always goes unnoticed.


   Execution and Dark Pools  

Dark pools are private exchanges or forums that are designed to help institutional investors execute their large orders by not disclosing their quantity. Because dark pools are primarily used by institutions, it is often easier to find liquidity to execute a block trade at a better price than if it was executed on a public exchange, such as the Nasdaq or New York Stock Exchange. If an institutional trader places a sizable order on a public exchange, it is visible in the order book and other investors may discover that there is a large buy or sell order getting executed which could push the price of the stock lower.



Most dark pools also offer execution at the mid-point of the bid and ask price which helps brokers achieve the best possible execution for their customers. For example, if a stock’s bid price was $100 and the asking price was $101, a market order could get executed at $100.50 if there was a seller at that price in the dark pool. Main Street is generally skeptical of dark pools due to their lack of transparency and lack of access to retail investors.


   Example of Execution  

Suppose Olga enters an order to sell 500 shares of stock ABC for $25. Her broker is under obligation to find the best possible execution price for the stock. He investigates the stock's prices across markets and finds that he can get a price of $25.50 for the stock internally versus the $25.25 price at which it is trading in the markets. The broker executes the order internally and nets a profit of $125 for Olga.
What Is an Executive MBA (EMBA)?  

Executive master of business administration is a degree program similar to a master of business administration (MBA) program but specifically designed for corporate executives and senior managers already in the workforce. An executive MBA program referred to as an EMBA enables executives to earn the degree while continuing to hold their existing jobs. Typically, EMBA students are relatively senior in their fields and possess considerable work experience before entering the program.





Key Takeaways

Executive master of business administration (EMBA) is designed for working corporate executives and senior managers.Typically, an individual working towards an EMBA continues to work full-time at work.Considerable work experience and business knowledge are helpful to succeed in a top-tier EMBA program.Earning an EMBA means usually taking a mix of evening, online, and weekend classes, tutorials, and workshops.While a full-time MBA program may take a year, an EMBA program takes up to two years.EMBA programs are time-consuming and expensive. It makes sense to weigh the pros and cons of a program before entering one.


   Understanding the Executive MBA Program  

The EMBA program is comprised of a mix of classroom teaching on evenings and weekends, online classes and tutorials, and occasional full-day workshops. Equivalent to a full-time MBA program in scope and requirements, an EMBA program can last as long as 24 months.



Intensive modular classes to reinforce expertise and fill knowledge gaps are primary motivators for executives to embark on this program. They engage in core coursework in finance and accounting, operations management, strategic management, marketing, human resources, and other disciplines and may take specialized electives.






An EMBA program may take up to two years to complete and could potentially cost $200,000.﻿﻿



Students in EMBA programs come away with an enhanced skills base to advance their career prospects at their organizations, not to mention the credential of a master's degree and a new alumni network. Because most of these executives are also working while earning their EMBAs, they are better positioned to apply the management techniques, and best practices learned in the classroom to real-life situations than traditional MBAs in school full-time.


   Types of EMBA Programs  

There are numerous EMBA programs in the U.S. and abroad. The Economist cites 65 universities that offer EMBAs and states that "these pricey programmes are more popular than ever." Its top 10-rated programs ranked for 2020 rankings include those offered by the business schools at the University of California at Berkeley, Northwestern, Brown, and Yale.﻿﻿



The Economist ranks the school's EMBA programs on broad measures like personal development, educational experience, and career development. As with the regular full-time MBA programs, these universities have a competitive admissions process.



There is no absence of good EMBA programs in the U.S. and abroad from which to choose. It's essential to research EMBA programs thoroughly to find the best school, program, and location for your particular needs. However, what is possibly more germane is to understand whether pursuing an EMBA degree is the right path.


   Is an EMBA Worth It?  

The question of whether an EMBA degree program would be worthwhile depends on your set of requirements, career goals, basic needs, lifestyle, and so on. Generally, an excellent place to begin this investigation is by looking at time and money factors.



EMBA programs are not cheap and can cost as much as $200,000.﻿﻿ So, whether you are paying out of your pocket or being sponsored by your company, you should perform a basic return on investment (ROI) analysis to gauge if it is worthwhile financially. If you are working full-time and your company is footing the bill for your EMBA, there would be no monetary opportunity cost, but the time consideration remains.



Suppose you, as an executive, cannot travel to close a deal, meet with a client to develop new business, or stay late in the office to satisfy a pressing deadline because you need to attend a class or do homework instead. In that case, there might be a huge opportunity cost to you and your career. You must carefully review these and other criteria and include them as part of your cost-benefit analysis to help decide if an EMBA is the best choice for you.
What Is an Executor?  

An executor of an estate is an individual appointed to administer the last will and testament of a deceased person. The executor's main duty is to carry out the instructions to manage the affairs and wishes of the deceased.



The executor is appointed either by the testator of the will (the individual who makes the will) or by a court, in cases wherein there was no prior appointment.





Key Takeaways

An executor is the person who administers a person's estate upon their death.An executor is often named by the testator before their death, or else by a court.The primary duty is to carry out the wishes of the deceased person based on instructions spelled out in their will or trust documents.This means ensuring that assets are distributed to the intended beneficiaries.Being an executor is a large responsibility where potential hazards and complications may arise.


   How Executors Work  

The executor is responsible for making sure all assets in the will are accounted for, along with transferring these assets to the correct party (parties). Assets can include financial holdings, such as stocks, bonds, or money market investments; real estate; direct investments; or even collectibles like art. The executor has to estimate the value of the estate by using either the date of death value or the alternative valuation date, as provided in the Internal Revenue Code (IRC).



The executor also needs to ensure that all the debts of the deceased are paid off, including any taxes, and that an official notice to creditors is published. The executor is legally obligated to meet the wishes of the deceased and act in the interest of the deceased. The executor can be almost anyone but is usually a lawyer, accountant, or family member, with the only restriction being that they must be over the age of 18 and have no prior felony convictions.



Some people agree to be an executor thinking that it will be years before they have to do any work. However, doing the job properly means going to work immediately. In the words of Jim Morrison, "The future's uncertain, and the end is always near," so agreeing to be an executor means that your legal responsibility could be called upon at any time.


   Being an Executor  

To be prepared to act as executor, you should:



Make sure the testator is keeping a list of assets and debts, including bank accounts, investment accounts, insurance policies, real estate, and so on.
Know where the original will and the asset list are being held and how to access them.
Know the names and contact details of attorneys or agents named by the testator, and what their function is.
Discuss the testator's wishes as far as a funeral or memorial service, including instructions for burial or cremation.
Discuss the will with the testator and, if possible, with the beneficiaries in order to minimize problems in the future.
Have a copy of all these documents.



Again, it is important that you have the time to gather this information as soon as possible after you've agreed to be the executor.


   Executors and Estate Planning  

Executors are key in estate planning for individuals and their families and beneficiaries. Estate planning is an all-encompassing term that covers how an individual’s assets will be preserved, managed, and distributed after death. It also takes into account the management of this individual’s properties and financial obligations (i.e. debts) in the event that s/he becomes incapacitated.



Individuals have various reasons for planning an estate, including preserving family wealth, providing for surviving spouses and children, funding children and/or grandchildren’s education, or leaving their legacy behind to a charitable cause. The most basic step in estate planning involves writing a will. Other major estate planning tasks include:



Limiting estate taxes by setting up trust accounts in the name of beneficiaries
Establishing a guardian for living dependents
Naming an executor of the estate to oversee the terms of the will
Creating/updating beneficiaries on plans such as life insurance, IRAs, and 401(k)s
Setting up funeral arrangements
Establishing annual gifting to qualified charitable and non-profit organizations to reduce the taxable estate
Setting up a durable power of attorney (POA) to direct other assets and investments



While it is an honor to be selected as an executor, executing a will takes more work than you might think. Before you agree to act as an executor, understand some of the hazards that can result. And know how you can address some of these potential hazards so that being an executor can run smoothly.






The feminine form of the word “executor” is "executrix." It refers specifically to a woman who has been assigned responsibility for administering a deceased person's estate and executing the provisions set forth in a last will and testament.​​​​​ "Executrix" is pretty obsolete now, in favor of the gender-neutral "executor," but the term may still be found in older wills and other documents.


   Disputes With Co-Executors  

Often when a parent has more than one adult child, all children are named as co-executors so as not to show favoritism. For those who are named, however, this arrangement may not work smoothly. Some children may be out-of-state, or even out-of-country, making it difficult to handle the hands-on activities, such as securing assets and selling a home. Some lack the financial ability to deal with creditors, understand estate tax matters and do an accounting audit to satisfy beneficiaries that things have been properly handled. Also, having multiple executors adds greatly to the amount of paperwork.



For example, forms that need to be signed by all executors must be sent around to all (in some cases, scanned documents that have been signed are acceptable, but in others only originals are acceptable).


  How to Solve These Disputes  

See if co-executors can agree to allow only one individual to serve; the others simply waive their appointment. This waiver works well when co-executors trust the person who will serve as the sole executor. Another alternative is for all of the children to decline and instead let a bank’s trust department handle the job (the will may name the bank as a successor executor). This costs money and is best suited for large estates. However, using an entity rather than an individual as executor can alleviate conflicts among the children and relieves them from what could be an onerous job.


   Disputes With Heirs  

An executor’s job is to secure the assets of the estate and then distribute them according to the deceased person’s wishes. In some families, heirs descend on a decedent’s home even before the funeral, cherry-picking heirlooms, and other valuables.



Also, the will may give latitude to an executor in making disbursements to heirs (e.g., distributing property or selling property and distributing cash). An executor may create family disharmony for simply doing their job.


  How to Solve These Disputes  

Secure the home and other assets as quickly as possible. Inform heirs that this is the law. Also share information about the decedent’s wishes, which may be described in a will or listed in a separate document (the separate document isn’t binding on the executor but can be a good roadmap for asset disbursements). 


   Time Drain  

One of the biggest drawbacks to being an executor is the great amount of time it takes to properly handle responsibilities. For example, think of the time involved in contacting various government agencies (e.g., Social Security Administration to stop Social Security benefits and, in the case of a surviving spouse, claim the $255 death benefit; IRS and state tax authorities for income tax and death tax matters; state’s unclaimed property departments to recoup utility deposits and other outstanding amounts that belonged to the decedent).


  Streamline the Process With Outside Help  

An executor can allow an estate attorney to handle many of these matters. However, the attorney will bill for their time and cost the estate money. Even if an attorney uses a paralegal for various actions, it can still be expensive. Also, a CPA or other tax preparers can work on the decedent’s final income tax return as well as income tax returns for the estate. Where estates are modest, these fees can mean little or no inheritances for some heirs.



An executor in this situation should use the services of professionals sparingly and understand the time commitment they will need to make instead. Being organized (e.g., using a checklist like this one from Jonathan Pond) can help an executor use time most efficiently.


   Personal Liability Exposure  

As an executor, you must pay taxes owed before disbursing inheritances to heirs. If you pay heirs first and do not have sufficient funds in the estate’s checking account to pay taxes, you are personally liable for the taxes.



While many estates no longer are concerned about federal income taxes because of the high exemption amount ($11.58 million in 2021), many states continue to impose death taxes on smaller estates. The value of the estate for death tax purposes is greater than the probate estate (the assets that do not pass automatically to named beneficiaries); it includes all assets in which the decedent had an interest (e.g., IRAs, annuities, life insurance owned by the decedent). 



Explain to heirs who are eager to receive their inheritances that you are not permitted to give them their share until you have settled with creditors, the IRS, and others with a claim against the estate. (Creditors cannot go after the proceeds of a life insurance policy that has a specific beneficiary, however.) Make sure to understand the extent of the funds needed to pay what’s owed. 





Out-of-Pocket Costs

An executor is allowed to receive compensation for their efforts. Usually, the amount of compensation is determined by the size of the estate (e.g., a percentage of assets). However, in many cases, particularly with smaller estates, an executor is asked to waive any payment.Try to pay the expenses of the estate from an estate checking account. Keep track of out-of-pocket expenses (e.g. postal fees). Some of these expenses may be reimbursable by the estate.




What Is Another Word for Executor?
An executor is one who handles the wishes and instructions set out in a will. Other terms for this role may include the will's administrator, enforcer, or steward; or the testator's personal representative, agent, or fiduciary. A female executor is referred to as an executrix.




Is an Executor the Same as a Trustee?
The two roles are similar, but an executor carries out one's will, often under the supervision of a probate court; while a trustee is responsible for one's trust. In some cases, the two may be the same individual, although they don't have to be.




Can an Executor Also Be a Beneficiary?
Yes, and it is not uncommon for a will's executor to also be a named beneficiary. However, this can create accusations of perceived unfairness or conflicts of interest.




Do Executors Get Paid?
Executors are often entitled to payment for their time and effort, either through the terms of the will, or under state law pertaining to reasonable compensation. This can come in the form of a percentage of the estate's value, a commission on the transactions involved in settling the estate, as an hourly rate, or a flat fee. An executor may choose to decline compensation.




What Is a Gift Left in a Will Called?
A gift left in a will is known as a bequest or a legacy.


   The Bottom Line  

An executor is the individual who carries out one's last will and testament, ensuring that the stipulations and wishes of the deceased are carried out properly. Subject to probate court oversight, this will often include disbursing the estate's assets, paying any taxes due, and covering outstanding debts. People often name the executor to their estate in their will prior to death. In the absence of a named executor, a probate court will assign one instead.
What Is an Exempt Employee?  

The term exempt employee refers to a category of employees set out in the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA). Exempt employees do not receive overtime pay and do not qualify for minimum wage. This is based on the type of work they perform. When an employee is exempt, it primarily means that they are exempt from receiving overtime pay. Exempt employees stand in contrast to nonexempt employees.





Key Takeaways

An exempt employee is an employee who does not receive overtime pay or qualify for minimum wage.Exempt employees are paid a salary rather than by the hour, and they work in professional, administrative, executive, outside sales, and computer-related fields.Exempt employees stand in contrast to nonexempt employees, who must be paid at least the minimum wage, and overtime when they work more than the standard 40-hour workweek.The details and rules governing exempt and nonexempt employees are covered by the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA).Workers are generally considered exempt if they fall in the above categories, are salaried, and earn a minimum of $684 per week or $35,568 annually.


   Understanding Exempt Employees  

In any workplace, there are two types of employees: exempt and nonexempt. Exempt employees are those who are exempt from minimum wage and overtime pay requirements. This is because exempt employees are paid a salary rather than an hourly wage, and they work in what are considered executive or professional jobs. Exempt employees often receive year-end bonuses to compensate for the type of work they do, as well as for any overtime work.



Requirements vary by state, but the FLSA classifies exempt employees as any job that falls into these categories:



Professional
Administrative
Executive
Outside sales
Computer-related



These classifications are quite broad, which they are intended to be. That's because they encompass a variety of jobs in different industries. As of Jan. 1, 2022, the FLSA stipulates that employees in the above categories are exempt if they are paid by salary as opposed to hourly, and if they earn a minimum of $684 per week or $35,568 annually. In 2022, 26 U.S. states increased the minimum wage, which means this threshold changed in certain regions.



In addition to the main categories of exempt employees, other categories of employees may possibly be considered exempt from receiving overtime pay. These include farm workers, motion picture theater employees, certain employees of nonmetropolitan broadcast stations, taxi drivers, and employees of railroads, motor carriers, and American vessels. Commissioned sales employees of retail or service entities also fall into this list.






Employees who fall in the computer-related categories may be paid an hourly salary. In order to be considered exempt, hourly employees must be paid no less than $27.63 per hour.


   Exempt Employees, Nonexempt Employees, and the Fair Labor Standards Act  

The exempt employee category was created by the FLSA, which was passed in 1938. The watershed labor law protects workers against unfair pay practices and work regulations. The law changed greatly over the last 85 years, but it is still one of the most important labor laws in the history of the United States, setting regulations for a wide array of employee- and employer-related issues.



The FLSA specifies the conditions when workers are to be paid and not expected to be paid. For instance, when working excess hours, an exempt employee does not receive overtime or time and a half. Time and a half is 1.5 times the hourly rate of the employee—the minimum that an employer has to pay for overtime. The act marks overtime as any hours that exceed 40 hours in a seven-day workweek.






The FLSA's exemptions only apply to white-collar employees who meet the salary and job requirement tests. As such, the exemption does not apply to blue-collar workers or those who "perform work involving repetitive operations with their hands, physical skill and energy." The FLSA also excludes police officers, firefighters, paramedics, and other first responders from the list of exempt employees.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Exempt Employee Status  
  Advantages  

The pros of being an exempt employee start with the security of knowing that you have a steady paycheck. Exempt employees tend to earn more than hourly workers. They may also generally have access to such extras as retirement benefits, including:



Individual retirement accounts (IRAs)
401(k) plans
Pensions
Bonuses
Employer-sponsored healthcare plans
Paid vacation time and sick days


  Disadvantages  

The downside comes largely in not being eligible for overtime pay. Depending on the mindset of your employer, you could find yourself working long hours to fulfill an overloaded work portfolio without any recourse for additional reimbursement or reducing the stress brought on by the long hours. In short, you are at the mercy of your boss.





Pros

Higher pay than hourly workers
Access to employer-sponsored benefits



Cons

Not eligible for overtime pay
You may (have to) work longer hours







What Are the Requirements of Being an Exempt Employee?
The Fair Labor Standards Act classifies exempt employees as anyone doing jobs that fall into these categories: professional, administrative, executive, outside sales, STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-related, and computer-related. The FLSA stipulates that employees in the above categories are exempt if they are paid by salary as opposed to hourly and if they earn a minimum of $684 per week or $35,568 annually. Keep in mind that this may vary by state as 26 U.S. states increased their minimum wages in 2022.




What Are the Advantages of Being an Exempt Employee?
The advantages of being an exempt employee start with the security of knowing that you have a steady paycheck. Also, exempt employees tend to earn more than hourly ones and have access to extras such as retirement benefits, including individual retirement accounts, 401(k) plans, and pensions; bonuses; employer-sponsored healthcare plans; and paid vacation time and sick days.




What Are the Disadvantages of Being and Exempt Employee?
The main disadvantages lie in not being eligible for overtime or qualifying for minimum wage. Depending on the mindset of your employer, you could find yourself working long hours to fulfill an overloaded work portfolio without any recourse for additional reimbursement or reducing the stress brought on by the long hours. In short, you are at the mercy of your boss.


   The Bottom Line  

Exempt employees have the advantage of a steady income stream and generally earn more than nonexempt, or hourly, employees. Full-time and many part-time exempt employees also typically have access to retirement benefits like 401(k) plans, bonuses, and employee-sponsored healthcare plans, as well as paid time off in the form of vacation and sick days.



The main downside of being an exempt employee is not being eligible for overtime pay. However, for most employees, the benefits of exempt status likely outweigh that potential negative.
What Is Exempt Income?  

Exempt income refers to certain types of income that are not subject to income tax. Some types of income are exempt from federal or state income tax, or both. The IRS determines which types of income are exempt from federal income tax and the circumstances for each exemption. States have their own rules that define what counts as exempt income.





Key Takeaways

Exempt income is not subject to taxation.Some income may be exempt at the state level but taxed at the federal level.Income from some types of investments, like municipal bonds, qualifies as exempt income.Distributions from Roth 401(k)s and Roth IRAs are also tax-exempt.Income from benefits, such as employer-sponsored supplemental disability insurance and most benefits from employer-sponsored health insurance plans, are exempt from taxes.


   Understanding Exempt Income  

There are several types of income and benefits that are nontaxable under certain circumstances. Several health-related benefits are tax-exempt, including benefits from employer-sponsored supplemental disability insurance purchased with after-tax dollars, private insurance plans funded with after-tax dollars, most benefits from employer-sponsored health insurance plans, and worker's compensation.



Gifts that exceed a certain value can trigger a gift tax on the person providing the gift. However, any gift worth less than $17,000 for 2023 is exempt from income tax. Regardless of value, certain gifts, including tuition and medical expenses paid for someone else, and charitable donations, are income tax exempt. Charitable contributions are also tax-deductible. 



Exempt income rules underwent changes under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) signed into law in December 2017. For example, the TCJA eliminated personal exemptions from tax years 2018 to 2026 but roughly doubled the standard deduction. For the 2023 tax year, the standard deduction is:



$13,850 for single taxpayers and married couples filing separately$27,700 for married couples filing jointly$20,800 for heads of households






When you file your taxes, you can choose between taking the standard deduction or itemizing your deductions. Examples of itemized deductions include medical expenses, mortgage interest, and charitable donations. Itemizing typically makes sense for higher-income earners who have large expenses to deduct.


   Examples of Exempt Income  

Distributions from health savings accounts (HSAs) are only exempt from income tax if they are used for qualified medical expenses. Qualified distributions from Roth 401(k) plans and Roth IRAs funded with after-tax dollars are tax-exempt. 



Other investments may also be protected from income tax. For example, interest earned from municipal bonds is exempt from federal income tax and state income tax if you reside in the state where the bond was issued. Capital losses from sold investments can also reduce your taxable income by up to $3,000 per year.



If someone dies and you are the beneficiary of a life insurance benefit, that is also nontaxable income although it may make you subject to estate tax. The estate tax, often referred to as the death tax, applies to a certain portion of an estate only after it exceeds a certain threshold, which is $12.92 million in 2023.






The exemption and phase-out levels for the alternative minimum tax (AMT), which is typically levied on individuals earning income above a certain threshold, are in effect until 2025. The tax exemption is $81,300 for 2023 and phases out at $578,150 in 2023. The exemption amount is $126,500 for married couples filing jointly and phases out at $1.15 million.




What Types of Income Are Tax Exempt?
Income from municipal bonds and distributions from Roth 401(k)s and Roth IRAs are tax-exempt. In 2023, gifts worth less than $17,000 are not subject to income tax. Income from employer-sponsored benefits—including supplemental disability insurance and most benefits from employer-sponsored health insurance plans—are also exempt.




Is Unemployment Income Taxed?
Unemployment benefits are treated as ordinary income by the federal government, but not all states tax unemployment income.




How Much Is the Gift Tax?
The gift tax ranges between 18% and 40% and is based on the size of the taxable gift. In 2023 the gift tax exclusion is $17,000. This amount is per donee. As such, you can give up to that amount per person during the tax year. So if you have four grandchildren, you can give them $17,000 in 2023 without incurring the annual gift tax.


   The Bottom Line  

Almost all forms of income are taxable. This means if you earn wages, salaries, tips, and other types of income from an employer or as a freelancer, you're liable for income taxes. But there are certain forms of income that aren't taxable. Exempt income includes things like distributions from some retirement accounts, gifts under a certain amount, certain benefits, and private insurance plans. If you're unsure about your tax liability and whether you're on the hook, talk to a tax or financial professional to avoid any fines and penalties later on down the road.
What Is an Exempt-Interest Dividend?  

An exempt-interest dividend is a distribution from a mutual fund that is not subject to federal income tax. Exempt-interest dividends most often are derived from mutual funds that invest in municipal bonds.



While exempt-interest dividends are not subject to federal income tax, they may still be subject to state income tax or the alternative minimum tax (AMT). The dividend income must be reported on the income tax return, and it is reported by mutual funds on Form 1099-INT.





Key Takeaways

An exempt-interest dividend is a distribution from a mutual fund that is not subject to federal income tax.High-net-worth investors often invest in municipal bonds to take advantage of the tax breaks.Though exempt from federal income tax, interest dividends from municipal bonds may or may not be exempt from state taxes.Interest-dividend may also be subject to the alternative minimum tax (AMT) even if it is exempt from federal or state income taxes.Tax-exempt interest dividends are reported on Form 1099-DIV in box 12.


   Understanding an Exempt-Interest Dividend  

A dividend is a distribution of a company's profits to shareholders. It is not an incurred mandatory cost set by the receivers such as in the case of debt obligations. It is not classified as an expense and is deducted last after net earnings are determined and decisions are made to make distributions out of them.



Dividends are commonly paid to shareholders of corporate stocks. Shareholders receive dividend payments periodically throughout the year, commonly every quarter.



For example, Apple's dividend as of February 2, 2023, was $0.23 per share. Apple makes four dividend payments a year, all of which are taxable and paid by the shareholders.



An exempt-interest dividend is a payment from a mutual fund that is not subject to federal income tax and is mainly found in mutual funds that contain some municipal bond investments.


  Who Buys Tax-Exempt Bonds?  

People with high net worths are more likely to invest in municipal bonds because the tax savings outweigh the lower returns provided by the investments. High-net-worth individuals are subject to higher taxes, so a low-tax investment is a popular choice.



The types of municipal bonds that are exempt from taxes are those that are raising money for uses that benefit the community.



The tax benefits provided by the investments, including exempt-interest dividends, are lost if the investments are held in an individual retirement account (IRA). This is because all dividends and interest within an IRA are tax-exempt.


   State Income Tax  

The dividend interest that is federally exempt may or may not be exempt from state taxes, depending on the state where the municipal bonds were issued and the state in which you file your taxes.



Depending on the state, they may allow the entire portion of your dividend interest to be exempt or only the portion of the bonds that are issued in the state you are filing your taxes, while bonds from other states will be taxed.



For example, assume you have a total dividend interest of $100, $60 of which comes from the state you reside in and $40 from another state. The state you reside in only allows exemptions from its taxes on bonds within the state, so you do not have to pay state tax on the $60, but you will have to on the $40.


   Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT)  

The alternative minimum tax (AMT) places a floor on the percentage of taxes that an individual must pay, regardless of how many deductions or exemptions they may claim on their returns.



For the 2022 tax year, the AMT exemption amount is $75,900 for single filers and $118,100 for married couples filing jointly.For the 2023 tax year, the exemption is $81,300 for single filers and $126,500 for married couples filing jointly.



The goal of the AMT is to ensure that individuals pay a certain level of taxes rather than escaping their obligation through various tax breaks. Therefore, exempt-interest dividends can be subject to the AMT to ensure that some individuals are not avoiding paying their fair share.



IRS Form 6251 will help individuals determine if they owe an alternative minimum tax (AMT), or a tax software will automatically calculate it for them.




How Can I Avoid Paying Tax on Investment Income?
There are a number of investments and savings vehicles that yield returns that are tax-free at least at the federal level.The biggest category of these is municipal bonds. These are issued by state and local governments and public institutions like school districts and water departments in order to raise money. The money may be used for specific projects that benefit the community, or it may go into the general fund.In any case, the interest they pay their bondholders is free of federal tax. It may or may not be free of state and local tax. Each state and municipality sets its own rules, but often the interest is tax-exempt if it is issued in that state.Keep in mind that municipal bonds pay a lower rate of return than corporate bonds in return for that tax break. They are a popular choice for high-net-worth investors who want to shelter some of their income from taxes.




Are Mutual Fund Distributions Taxable?
Almost always. The exception is the exempt-interest dividends that are paid to shareholders of mutual funds that invest some or all of their assets in tax-exempt municipal bonds.The amount of taxable distributions and any tax-exempt distributions that you have received from a mutual fund will be recorded in the IRS Form 1099-DIV that you receive from the fund company after the end of the calendar year.




Why Does Tax-Exempt Interest Count as Taxable Income for Alternative Minimum Tax?
The alternative minimum tax is designed to capture some taxes from very high-income people who use every possible deduction and loophole to reduce or eliminate the taxes they owe.Tax-exempt municipal bonds are a good way to reduce the taxes owed on unearned income. Adding those distributions to gross income for people at certain high income levels cuts off a potential strategy for avoiding the alternative minimum tax.
What Is an Exempt Transaction?  

An exempt transaction is a type of securities transaction where a business does not need to file registrations with any regulatory bodies, provided the number of securities involved is relatively minor compared to the scope of the issuer's operations and that no new securities are being issued.





Key Takeaways

Exempt transactions do not require registrations to be filed.Exempt securities are tax-exempt in most cases.There are some regulations for exempt transactions such as anti-fraud provisions.


   Understanding Exempt Transactions  

An exempt transaction is a securities exchange that would otherwise have to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) but does not because of the nature of the transaction in question. Exempt securities which have tax-exempt status are the instruments that the government backs,



Exempt transactions cut down the amount of paperwork needed for relatively minor transactions. For example, it would be a big hassle to perform a filing with the SEC every time a non-executive employee wanted to sell back some of the company's common shares he or she purchased as part of an employee stock purchase plan.



A private placement or Reg D offering is a type of exempt transaction in which the securities are not offered to the public, but are instead sold privately to an accredited investor. According to the SEC, an accredited investor can be:



An insurance company, bank, business development company, small business investment company, or registered investment companyAn employee benefit plan administered by a bank registered investment company, or insurance companyA tax-exempt charitable organizationSomeone with at least $1 million in net worth, excluding their primary residenceA person with more than $200,000 in income, or joint income of more than $300,000 with a spouse in both of the previous two yearsAn enterprise owned by accredited investorsA general partner, executive officer, or director of the company selling the securitiesA trust with assets of at least $5 million, as long as it has not been formed just to buy the securities in question






Even with exempt transactions, investors and companies are responsible for any misleading or false statements. Exempt transactions are also not exempt from the general provisions of regulating codes, including reporting requirements.


   Special Considerations  

Other types of exempt transactions include Reg A offerings, also known as small business company offerings, which permit the issuing company to raise no more than $5 million in 12 months. This allows smaller companies to access securities markets to raise capital. Rule 147 offerings, or intrastate offerings, are also exempt. Transactions with financial institutions, fiduciaries, and insurance underwriters may be considered exempt. Unsolicited orders, which are those executed through a broker at the request of his or her client, are also considered exempt.



Usually, an exempt transaction involves a small amount of money or an accredited or sophisticated investor, or does not, for some other reason, warrant a full registration. However, even exempt transactions are subject to some regulations, such as anti-fraud provisions. Investors and companies can still be held liable to misleading or false statements made on behalf of the company, the offering, or the securities, even if the transaction is exempt.



And while exempt transactions may not need to be registered with state securities regulators, those state authorities retain the authority to investigate fraud, collect associated state fees, and enforce state filing requirements. Therefore, companies should take care to remain in compliance with state securities regulations, even if their offerings and transactions are exempt under federal filing regulations.
What Is an Exemption?  

An exemption reduces the amount of income that is subject to income tax. There are a variety of exemptions allowed by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Previously, the two most common types were personal and dependent exemptions. But with the changes brought about by the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), the personal exemption has disappeared until the end of 2025. Dependent exemptions, along with other types, continue to exist.





Key Takeaways

An exemption reduces the amount of income that would otherwise be taxed.Until the end of 2025, personal exemptions have been repealed and replaced by higher standard deductions.There are a variety of other exemptions and they can come in many forms.Certain income, such as income made from municipal bonds, counts as exempted income.


   How an Exemption Works  

Prior to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, there used to be a personal exemption. It could be claimed in addition to the standard deduction by people who did not itemize their tax deductions. Instead, there is now one higher standard deduction, passed with the TCJA. While exemptions used to make a bigger difference in calculating your annual taxes prior to the TCJA, they still can drastically change your tax situation by reducing taxable income.


  Personal Exemptions  

The personal exemption was repealed with the 2017 reforms but, as mentioned, was essentially replaced with higher standard deductions for both couples and individuals. For tax year 2022, the standard deduction is $12,950 if you file as single, $19,400 for heads of household, and $25,900 for those married filing jointly. For tax year 2023, the standard deduction increases to $13,850 if you file as single, $20,800 for heads of household, and $27,700 for married filing jointly taxpayers. These changes were among many in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.



Through the 2017 filing year, individual tax filers were able to claim $4,050 for each taxpayer, spouse, and dependent child. Previously, for example, a taxpayer who had three allowable exemptions could have deducted $12,150 from their total taxable income. However, if that person earned over a certain threshold, the amount of the exemption would have been phased out and eventually eliminated.



Tax filers were only able to claim a personal exemption if that person was not claimed as a dependent on someone else's income tax return. This rule intentionally set exemptions apart from deductions. For example, take a college student with a job whose parents claimed them as a dependent on their income tax return. Because someone else claimed the student as a dependent, the student could not claim the personal exemption but could still claim the standard deduction.



In most cases, tax filers could also claim a personal deduction for a spouse, as long as the spouse was not claimed as a dependent on another person's tax return.


  Dependent exemptions  

In many cases, dependents most commonly include the minor children of the taxpayer. However, taxpayers may claim exemptions for other dependents as well. The IRS has a litmus test for determining who is considered a dependent, but in most cases, it is defined as a relative of the taxpayer (parent, child, brother, sister, aunt, or uncle) who is dependent on the taxpayer for support.



The Child Tax Credit doubled to a maximum of $2,000 per child under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, from $1,000 per dependent previously. Certain income thresholds exist, affecting how much credit a family can actually receive.


   Other Types of Exemptions  

In addition to the above, exemptions can come in many forms, including the following:


  Exemption from withholding  

Employers withhold income tax from their employees and remit it to the IRS. However, a person who has no tax liability can request an exemption from withholding. This simply means that the employer will withhold Medicare and Social Security taxes from the person's paycheck, but will not withhold income tax.


  Income exemptions  

Certain kinds of income are exempt from taxes. Exempt income includes municipal bond income, and gifts under $16,000 in 2022 and $17,000 in 2023. Any distributions from health savings accounts (HSAs) used for qualified medical expenses will also be not taxed.






The W-4 form allows employees to let employers know how much tax to withhold from their paycheck based on the employee's marital status, number of exemptions and dependents, etc. Every time an employee starts a new job, they are required to fill out the W-4, which helps the employer estimate how much money to remit to tax authorities.




What Is a Qualified Dependent?
A dependent is a person who relies on someone else for financial support, and typically includes children or other relatives. The IRS determines who qualifies as a dependent. Only one taxpayer can claim a given dependent on their income tax return.




What Type of Income Is Tax Exempt?
Income from municipal bonds is exempt from taxes. Distributions from health savings accounts (HSAs) are exempt if they are used for qualified medical expenses. Qualified distributions from Roth 401(k) plans and Roth IRAs are also tax-exempt.




How Much Is the Standard Deduction?
The standard deduction for tax year 2022 is $12,950 if you file as single or married filing separately and $25,900 for those who are married and file jointly. In 2023, it increases to $13,850 if you file as single and $27,700 for married taxpayers filing jointly.
What Is Exercise?  

Exercise means to put into effect the right to buy or sell the underlying financial instrument specified in an options contract. In options trading, the holder of an option has the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell the option's underlying security at a specified price on or before a specified date in the future.





Key Takeaways

In options trading, "to exercise" means to put into effect the right to buy or sell the underlying security that is specified in the options contract.To exercise an option, you simply advise your broker that you wish to exercise the option in your contract.If the holder of a put option exercises the contract, they will sell the underlying security at a stated price within a specific timeframe.If the holder of a call option exercises the contract, they will buy the underlying security at a stated price within a specific timeframe.Before exercising an option, it is important to consider what type of option you have and whether you can exercise it.


   Understanding Exercise  

If the owner of an option decides to buy or sell the underlying instrument—instead of allowing the contract to expire worthless or closing out the position—they will be "exercising the option," or making use of the right or privilege that is available in the contract.



An options holder may exercise their right to buy or sell the contract's underlying shares at a specified price—also called the strike price.



Exercising a put option allows you to sell the underlying security at a stated price within a specific timeframe.
Exercising a call option allows you to buy the underlying security at a stated price within a specific timeframe.



To exercise an option, you simply advise your broker that you wish to exercise the option in your contract. Your broker will initiate an exercise notice, which informs the seller or writer of the contract that you are exercising the option. The notice is forwarded to the option seller via the Options Clearing Corporation (OCC). The seller is obligated to fulfill the terms of an options contract if the holder exercises the contract.






The decision to exercise an option isn't always a clear-cut one. There are several factors that need to be considered and, more often than not, it's safer to hold or sell the option instead.



The majority of options contracts are not exercised but, instead, are allowed to expire worthless or are closed by opposing positions. For example, the holder of an option can close out a long call or put prior to expiration by selling it, assuming the contract has market value.



If an option expires unexercised, the holder no longer has any of the rights granted in the contract. In addition, the holder loses the premium they paid for the option, along with any commissions and fees related to its purchase.


   Things to Consider When Exercising an Option  

What kind of option do you have? This is very important, as contracts have different guidelines. American-style contracts allow you to exercise them before their expiration date. European options may be exercised only after the contract has expired.
Can you exercise your options? In some cases, such as with employee stock ownership plans (ESOPs), your shares may be vested, meaning that you will need to wait a set amount of time before you exercise the option.
Will the cost outweigh the benefits? Exercising a contract costs you commission money, so make sure that the exercise price will make you money; otherwise, you'll end up paying more in fees and will lose out on any potential profit.
Are there taxes involved? You will want to consider any tax implications associated with the type of contract you are exercising. An employee cashing out an ESOP, for example, will have to pay additional tax.
What Is an Exercise Price?  

The exercise price is the price at which an underlying security can be purchased or sold when trading a call or put option, respectively. It is also referred to as the strike price and is known when an investor initiates the trade.



An option gets its value from the difference between the fixed exercise price and the market price of the underlying security.





Key Takeaways

An option's exercise price is the price the underlying security can be either bought or sold for.Both call and put options have an exercise price.Investors also refer to the exercise price as the strike price.The difference between the exercise price and the underlying security’s price determines if an option is “in the money” or “out of the money."


   Understanding Exercise Prices  

"Exercise price" is a term used in derivatives trading. A derivative is a financial instrument based on an underlying asset. Options are derivatives, while the stock, for example, refers to the underlying security.



In options trading, there are calls and puts and the exercise price can be in the money (ITM) or out of the money (OTM). A call option would be ITM if the exercise price is below the underlying security’s price and OTM if the exercise price is above the underlying security’s price. The converse would hold for a put option.


  Calls vs Puts  

A put gives investors the right, but not the obligation, to sell a stock in the future. Investors buy puts if they think the stock is going down or if they own the stock and want to hedge against a possible price decline. They buy puts because it allows them to sell the stock at the strike price of the option, even if the stock falls dramatically.



A call, meanwhile, gives investors the right, but not the obligation, to buy a stock in the future. Investors buy calls if they think the stock is going up in the future or if they sold the stock short and want to hedge against a possible surge in price. Calls give them the right to buy at the strike price even if the stock price rallies aggressively.



Typically, put option investors only exercise their right to sell their shares at the exercise price if the price of the underlying is below the strike price. Likewise, call options are usually only exercised if the price of the underlying is trading above the strike price.


   Exercise Price Example  

Let’s assume that Sam owns call options for Wells Fargo & Company with an exercise price of $45, and the underlying stock is trading at $50. This means the call options are trading ITM—the exercise price is lower than the price at which the stock is currently trading—by $5.



The call options give Sam the right to buy the stock at $45 even though it's trading at $50, allowing him to make $5 per share by exercising the option. Sam's profit would be $5 less the premium or cost he paid for the option.



If, on the other hand, Wells Fargo is trading at $50, and the strike price of Sam's call option is $55, that option is OTM. It would not be beneficial for Sam to exercise that option because there is no need to pay $55 (using the option) when he can currently buy the stock for $50.



Example of the Exercise Price / Strike Price in Wells Fargo Options Table















Yahoo! Finance.



The further OTM an option moves, the less valuable it gets. It only has extrinsic value, or value based on the possibility that the price of the underlying could move through the strike price. Meanwhile, the further ITM an option is, the more value it has, giving Sam a better price than what is available in the stock market—or another underlying market.
What Is an Exit Strategy?  

An exit strategy is a contingency plan executed by an investor, venture capitalist, or business owner to liquidate a position in a financial asset or dispose of tangible business assets once predetermined criteria have been met or exceeded.



An exit strategy may be executed to exit a nonperforming investment or close an unprofitable business. In this case, the purpose of the exit strategy is to limit losses.



An exit strategy may also be executed when an investment or business venture has met its profit objective. For instance, an angel investor in a startup company may plan an exit strategy through an initial public offering (IPO).



Other reasons for executing an exit strategy may include a significant change in market conditions due to a catastrophic event; legal reasons, such as estate planning, liability lawsuits, or a divorce; or even because the business owner/investor is retiring and wants to cash out.





Key Takeaways

An exit strategy is a conscious plan to dispose of an investment in a business venture or financial asset.An exit strategy helps to minimize losses and maximize profits on investments.Startup exit strategies include initial public offerings (IPOs), acquisitions, or buyouts but may also include liquidation or bankruptcy to exit a failing company.Established business exit plans include mergers and acquisitions as well as liquidation and bankruptcy for insolvent companies.Exit strategies for investors include the 1% rule, a percentage-based exit, a time-based exit, or selling a stake in a business.


   Understanding Exit Strategies  

An effective exit strategy should be planned for every positive and negative contingency regardless of the investment type or business venture. This planning should be integral to determining the risk associated with the investment or business venture.



An exit strategy is a business owner’s strategic plan to sell ownership in a company to investors or another company. It outlines a process to reduce or liquidate ownership in a business and, if the business is successful, make a substantial profit.



If the business is not successful, an exit strategy (or exit plan) enables the owner to limit losses. An exit strategy may also be used by an investor, such as a venture capitalist, to prepare for a cash-out of an investment.



For investors, exit strategies and other money management techniques can greatly help remove emotion and reduce risk. Before entering an investment, investors should set a point at which they will sell for a loss and a point at which they will sell for a gain.


   Who Needs an Exit Plan?  

Business owners of both small and large companies need to create and maintain plans to control what happens to their business when they want to exit. An entrepreneur of a startup may exit their business through an IPO, a strategic acquisition, or a management buyout, while the CEO of a larger company may turn to mergers and acquisitions as an exit strategy.



Investors, such as venture capitalists or angel investors, need an exit plan to reduce or eliminate exposure to underperforming investments so they can capitalize on other opportunities. A well-thought-out exit strategy also provides guidance on when to book profits on unrealized gains.


   Why Is It Important to Have an Exit Plan?  

Businesses and investors should have a clearly defined exit plan to minimize potential losses and maximize profits on their investments. Here are several specific reasons why it’s important to have an exit plan.



Removes emotions: An exit plan removes emotions from the decision-making process. Having a predetermined level at which to exit an investment or sell a business helps avoid panic selling or making rushed decisions when emotions are high, which could accentuate a loss or not fully realize a profit.



Goal setting: Having an exit plan with specific goals helps answer important questions and guides future strategic decision making. For example, a startup’s exit plan might include a future buyout price that it would accept based on revenue turnover. That figure would help make strategic decisions about how big to grow the company to reach predetermined sales targets.



Unexpected events: Unexpected events are a part of life. Therefore, it’s essential to have an exit strategy for what happens when things don’t go to plan. For instance, what happens to a business if the owner faces an unexpected illness? What happens if the company loses a key supplier or customer? These situations need planning in advance to minimize potential losses and capitalize on gains.



Succession planning: An exit plan specifies what happens to the business when key personnel leave. For example, an exit strategy might stipulate through a succession plan that the company passes to another family member or that the business sells a stake to other owners or founders. Carefully detailed succession planning of an exit strategy can help avoid potential conflict when a business owner wants to or has to depart.


   Exit Strategies for Startups  

In the case of a startup business, successful entrepreneurs plan for a comprehensive exit strategy to prepare for business operations not meeting predetermined milestones.



If cash flow draws down to a point where business operations are no longer sustainable, and an external capital infusion is no longer feasible to maintain operations, then a planned termination of operations and a liquidation of all assets are sometimes the best options to limit further losses.



Most venture capitalists insist that a carefully planned exit strategy be included in a business plan before committing any capital. Business owners or investors may also choose to exit if a lucrative offer for the business is tendered by another party.



Ideally, an entrepreneur will develop an exit strategy in their initial business plan before launching the business. The choice of exit plan will influence business development decisions. Common types of exit strategies include IPOs, strategic acquisitions, and management buyouts (MBOs).



The exit strategy that an entrepreneur chooses depends on many factors, such as how much control or involvement they want to retain in the business, whether they want the company to continue being operated in the same way, or if they are willing to see it change going forward. The entrepreneur will want to be paid a fair price for their ownership share.



A strategic acquisition, for example, will relieve the founder of their ownership responsibilities but will also mean giving up control. IPOs are often considered the ultimate exit strategy since they are associated with prestige and high payoffs. Contrastingly, bankruptcy is seen as the least desirable way to exit a startup.



A key aspect of an exit strategy is business valuation, and there are specialists who can help business owners (and buyers) examine a company’s financial statements to determine a fair value. There are also transition managers whose role is to assist sellers with their business exit strategies.


   Exit Strategies for Established Businesses  

In the case of an established business, successful CEOs develop a comprehensive exit strategy as part of their contingency planning for the company.



Larger businesses often favor a merger or acquisition as an exit strategy, as it can be a lucrative way to remunerate owners and/or shareholders. Rival companies often pay a premium to buy out a company that allows them to increase market share, acquire intellectual property, or eliminate competition. This raises the prospects of other rivals also placing a bid for the company, ultimately rewarding the sellers of the business.



However, a merger-and-acquisition-focused exit strategy should factor in the time and costs to organize large deals as well as regulatory considerations, such as antitrust laws.



Established companies also plan for how to exit a failing business, which usually involves liquidation or bankruptcy. Liquidation consists of closing down the business and selling off all its assets, with any leftover cash going toward paying off debts and distributing among shareholders. 



As mentioned above, most businesses see bankruptcy as a last-resort exit; however, it sometimes becomes the only viable option. Under this scenario, a company’s assets are seized, and it receives relief from its debts. However, declaring bankruptcy could prevent business owners from borrowing credit or starting another company in the future.


   Exit Strategies for Investors  

Investors can use several different exit strategies to prudently manage their investments. Below, we look at several strategies that help minimize losses and maximize gains.



Selling equity stake: Investors with shares in a startup or small company could exit by selling their equity stake in the business to other investors or a family member. Selling an equity stake may form part of a succession plan agreed upon by founders when starting a business. If selling a startup stake to a family member, it’s important that they understand any conditions tied to the investment.



The 1% rule: Investors apply this rule by exiting an investment if the maximum loss equals 1% of their liquid net worth. For example, if Olivia has a liquid net worth of $2 million, she would cut an investment if it generates a loss of $20,000 ((1 ÷ 100) × 2,000,000). The 1% rule helps investors take a systematic approach to protect their capital.



Percentage exit: Using this strategy, investors exit an investment when it has gained or fallen by a certain percentage from its purchase price. For instance, Ethan, an angel investor, may decide to sell his share in a startup if it achieves a 300% return on investment (ROI). Conversely, Amelia, a venture capitalist, may decide to sell her share in a startup if it drops 20% in value.



Time-based exit: Investors apply this strategy by exiting their investment after a specific amount of time has passed. For example, Noah may decide to sell his stake in a business after 18 months if it has not generated a positive return. A time-based exit helps free up capital from underperforming investments that could be used for other opportunities. 




Why is it important to have an exit plan?
Businesses should have a clearly defined exit plan to help manage risk and capitalize on opportunities. Specifically, an exit plan helps remove emotion from decision making, assists with strategic direction, helps to plan for unexpected events, and provides details about an actionable succession plan. 




What are common exit strategies used by startups?
Exit strategies used by early-stage companies include initial public offerings (IPOs), strategic acquisitions, and management buyouts (MBOs). Entrepreneurs typically select an exit plan before launching a business that fits their longer-term business development decisions and goals. The exit strategy that an entrepreneur chooses depends on factors such as how much involvement they want to retain in the business and its future long-term potential.




What are common exit strategies used by established companies?
More established companies favor mergers and acquisitions as an exit strategy because it often leads to a favorable deal for shareholders, particularly if a rival company wants to increase its market share or acquire intellectual property. Larger companies may exit a loss-making business by liquidating their assets or declaring bankruptcy.




What exit strategies can investors use?
Investors can capitalize on gains and reduce risk by using exit strategies such as the 1% rule, a percentage-based exit, a time-based exit, or selling their equity stake in a business to other investors or family members. Investors typically set an exit strategy before entering into an investment, as it helps to manage emotions and determine if there is a favorable risk-return tradeoff.


   The Bottom Line  

Exit strategy refers to how a business owner or investor will liquidate an asset once predetermined conditions have been met. An exit plan helps to minimize potential losses and maximize profits by keeping emotions in check and setting quantifiable goals.



Common exit strategies for startups include IPOs, strategic acquisitions, and MBOs. More established companies often favor a merger or acquisition as an exit strategy but may also choose to go into liquidation or file for bankruptcy if becoming insolvent. Meanwhile, investors can exit investments using strategies such as the 1% rule, a percentage-based exit, a time-based exit, or selling their equity stake in a business.
What Is Exogenous Growth?  

Exogenous growth, a key tenet of neoclassical economic theory, states that economic growth is fueled by technological progress independent of economic forces.





Key Takeaways

Exogenous growth, a key tenet of neoclassical economic theory, states that economic growth is fueled by technological progress independent of economic forces.The exogenous growth model factors in production, diminishing returns of capital, savings rates, and technological variables to determine economic growth.Both the exogenous and endogenous growth models stress the role of technological progress in achieving sustained economic growth.The endogenous growth model differs from the exogenous growth model in that it suggests that forces within the economic system result in creating the atmosphere for technological progress.


   Understanding Exogenous Growth  

The exogenous growth theory states that economic growth arises due to influences outside the economy. The underlying assumption is that economic prosperity is primarily determined by external, independent factors as opposed to internal, interdependent factors.



From a broad economic sense, the concept of exogenous growth grew out of the neoclassical growth model. The exogenous growth model factors in production, diminishing returns of capital, savings rates, and technological variables to determine economic growth.


   Exogenous Growth vs. Endogenous Growth  

The exogenous growth and endogenous growth theories are part of the neoclassical growth models. Both models stress the role of technological progress in achieving sustained economic growth. However, the former posits that technological progress alone, outside of the economic system, is the key determinant in maximizing productivity, whereas the latter suggests that an economy's long-term growth is a byproduct of the activities within that economic system that result in technological progress.



Exogenous (external) growth factors include things such as the rate of technological advancement or the savings rate. Endogenous (internal) growth factors, meanwhile, would be capital investment, policy decisions, and an expanding workforce population. These factors are modeled by the Solow model, the Ramsey model, and the Harrod-Domar model.



To sum up these models, given a fixed amount of labor and static technology, economic growth will cease at some point as ongoing production reaches a state of equilibrium based on internal demand factors. Once this equilibrium is reached, exogenous factors are then needed to stoke growth.
What Is an Exotic Option?  

Exotic options are a category of options contracts that differ from traditional options in their payment structures, expiration dates, and strike prices. The underlying asset or security can vary with exotic options allowing for more investment alternatives. Exotic options are hybrid securities that are often customizable to the needs of the investor.





Key Takeaways

Exotic options are options contracts that differ from traditional options in their payment structures, expiration dates, and strike prices.Exotic options can be customized to meet the risk tolerance and desired profit of the investor.Although exotic options provide flexibility, they do not guarantee profits.


   Understanding Exotic Options  

Exotic options are a variation of the American and European style options—the most common options contracts available. American options let the holder exercise their rights at any time before or on the expiration date. European options have less flexibility, only allowing the holder to exercise on the expiration date of the contracts. Exotic options are hybrids of American and European options and will often fall somewhere in between these other two styles.



A traditional options contract gives a holder a choice or right to buy or sell the underlying asset at an established price before or on the expiration date. These contracts do not obligate the holder to transact the trade.



The investor has the right to buy the underlying security with a call option, while a put option provides them the ability to sell the underlying security. The process where an option converts to shares is called exercising, and the price at which it converts is the strike price.


   Exotic Option vs. Traditional Option  

An exotic option can vary in terms of how the payoff is determined and when the option can be exercised. These options are generally more complex than plain vanilla call and put options.



Exotic options usually trade in the over-the-counter (OTC) market. The OTC marketplace is a dealer-broker network, as opposed to a large exchange such as the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE).



Further, the underlying asset for an exotic can differ greatly from that of a regular option. Exotic options can be used in trading commodities such as lumber, corn, oil, and natural gas as well as equities, bonds, and foreign exchange. Speculative investors can even bet on the weather or price direction of an asset using a binary option.



Despite their embedded complexities, exotic options have certain advantages over traditional options, which can include: 



Customized to specific risk-management needs of investors
A wide variety of investment products to meet investors' portfolio needs
In some cases, lower premiums than regular options





Pros

Exotic options usually have lower premiums than the more-flexible American options.
Exotic options can be customized to meet the risk tolerance and desired profit of the investor.
Exotic options can help offset risk in a portfolio.



Cons

Some exotic options can have increased costs given their added features.
Exotic options do not guarantee a profit.
The reaction of price moves for exotics to market events can be different than traditional options.





   Types of Exotic Options  

As you may imagine, there are many types of exotic options available. The risk to reward horizon spans everything from highly speculative to more conservative. Below are several of the most common types you may see.


  Chooser Options  

Chooser options allow an investor to choose whether the option is a put or call during a certain point in the option's life. Both the strike price and the expiration are usually the same, whether it is a put or call. Chooser options are used by investors when there might be an event such as earnings or a product release that could lead to volatility or price fluctuations in the asset price.


  Compound Options  

Compound options are options that give the owner the right—not obligation—to buy another option at a specific price on or by a specific date. Typically, the underlying asset of a traditional call or put option is an equity security. However, the underlying asset of a compound option is another option. Compound options come in four types:



Call on callCall on putPut on putPut on call



These types of options are commonly used in foreign exchange and fixed-income markets.


  Barrier Options  

Barrier options are similar to plain vanilla calls and puts, but only become activated or extinguished when the underlying asset hits a preset price level. In this sense, the value of barrier options jumps up or down in leaps, instead of changing price in small increments. These options are commonly traded in the foreign exchange and equity markets.



As an example, let's say a barrier option has a knock-out price of $100 and a strike price of $90, with the stock currently trading at $80 per share. The option will behave like a standard option when the underlying is below $99.99, but once the underlying stock price hits $100, the option gets knocked out and becomes worthless.



A knock-in would be the opposite. If the underlying is below $99.99, the option does not exist, but once the underlying hits $100, the option comes into existence and is $10 in the money (ITM).



Barrier options can be used by investors to lower the premium for buying an option. For example, a knock-out feature for a call option might limit the gains on the underlying stock. There are four types of barrier options:



Up-and-out is when the price of the asset rises and knocks out the option
Down-and-out is when the price declines and knocks out the option
Up-and-in initiates an option when the price rises to a specific level
Down-and-in knocks in on a price decline


  Binary Options  

A binary option, or digital option, pays a fixed amount only if an event or price movement has occurred. Binary options provide an all-or-nothing payout structure. Unlike traditional call options, in which final payouts increase incrementally with each rise in the underlying asset price above the strike, binaries pay a finite lump sum if the asset is above the strike. Conversely, a buyer of a binary put option is paid the finite lump sum if the asset closes below the stated strike price.



For example, if a trader buys a binary call option with a stated payout of $10 at the strike price of $50 and the stock price is above the strike at expiration, the holder will receive a lump-sum payout of $10 regardless of how high the price has risen. If the stock price is below the strike at expiration, the trader is paid nothing, and the loss is limited to the upfront premium.



Besides equities, investors can use binary options to trade foreign currencies such as the euro (EUR) and the Canadian dollar (CAD), or commodities such as crude oil and natural gas. Binary options can also be based on the outcomes of events such as the level of the Consumer Price Index (CPI) or the value of the gross domestic product (GDP). Early exercise may not be possible with binaries if the underlying conditions have not been met.


  Bermuda Options  

Bermuda options can be exercised at preset dates as well as the expiry date. Bermuda options might allow an investor to exercise the option only on the first of the month, for example.



Bermuda options provide investors with more control over when the option is exercised. This added flexibility translates to a higher premium as compared to European-style options, which can only be exercised on their expiration dates. However, Bermuda options are a cheaper alternative than American-style options, which allow exercising at any time.


  Quantity-Adjusting Options  

Quantity-adjusting options, called "quanto-options" for short, expose the buyer to foreign assets but provide the safety of a fixed exchange rate in the buyer's home currency. This option is great for an investor looking to gain exposure in foreign markets, but who may be worried about how exchange rates will trade when it comes time to settle the option.



For example, a French investor looking at Brazil may find a favorable economic situation on the horizon and decide to put some portion of allocated capital in the BOVESPA Index, which is the largest stock exchange in Brazil. However, the investor is concerned about how the exchange rate for the euro and Brazilian real (BRL) might trade in the interim.



Typically, the investor would need to convert euros to Brazilian real to invest in the BOVESPA. Also, withdrawing the investment from Brazil would require converting back to euros. As a result, any gain in the index might be wiped out should the exchange rate move adversely.



The investor could purchase a quantity-adjusting call option on the BOVESPA denominated in euros. This solution provides the investor with exposure to the BOVESPA and lets the payout remain denominated in euros. As a two-in-one package, this option will inherently demand an additional premium that is above and beyond what a traditional call option would require.


  Look-Back Options  

Look-back options do not have a fixed exercise price at the beginning. Instead, the strike price resets to the best price of the underlying asset as it changes. The holder of a look-back option can choose the most favorable exercise price retrospectively for the period of the option. Look-backs eliminate the risk associated with timing market entry and are typically more expensive than plain vanilla options.



For example, say an investor buys a one-month look-back call option on a stock at the beginning of the month. The exercise price is decided at maturity by taking the lowest price achieved during the life of the option. If the underlying is at $106 at expiration and the lowest price during the life of the option was $71, the payoff is $35 ($106 - $71 = $35).



The risk to look-backs is when an investor pays the more expensive premium than a traditional option, and the stock price does not move enough to generate a profit.


  Asian Options  

Asian options take the average price of the underlying asset to determine if there is a profit as compared to the strike price. For example, an Asian call option might take the average price for 30 days. If the average is less than the strike price at expiration, the option expires worthless.


  Basket Options  

Basket options are similar to plain vanilla options except that they are based on more than one underlying. For example, an option that pays out based on the price movement of not one but three underlying assets is a type of basket option. The underlying assets can have equal weights in the basket or different weights, based on the characteristics of the option.



A drawback to basket options can be that the price of the option might not correlate or trade in the same manner as the individual components would to price fluctuations or the time remaining until expiration.


  Extendible Options  

Extendible options allow the investor to extend the expiration date of the option. As the option reaches its expiration date, extendable options have a specific period that the option can be extended. The feature is available for both buyers or sellers of extendable options and can be helpful if the option is not yet profitable or out of the money (OTM) at its expiry.


  Spread Options  

The underlying asset for spread options is the spread or difference between the prices of two underlying assets. As an example, say a one-month spread call option has a strike price of $3 and utilizes the price difference between stocks ABC and XYZ as the underlying. At expiry, if stocks ABC and XYZ are trading at $106 and $98, respectively, the option will pay $5 ($106 - $98 - $3 = $5).


  Shout Options  

A shout option allows the holder to lock in a certain amount in profit while retaining future upside potential on the position.



If a trader buys a shout call option with a strike price of $100 on stock ABC for one month, when the stock price goes to $118, the holder of the shout option can lock in this price and have a guaranteed profit of $18. At expiry, if the underlying stock goes to $125, the option pays $25. Meanwhile, if the stock ends at $106 at expiry, the holder still receives $18 on the position.


  Range Options  

Range options have a payoff based on the difference between the maximum and minimum price of the underlying asset during the life of the option. These options eliminate the risks associated with the entry and exit timing, making them more expensive than plain vanilla and look-back options.


   Why Trade Exotic Options?  

Exotic options have unique underlying conditions that make them a good fit for high-level active portfolio management and situation-specific solutions. Complex pricing of these derivatives may give rise to arbitrage, which can provide great opportunities for sophisticated quantitative investors. Arbitrage is the simultaneous purchase and sale of an asset to exploit the price differences of financial instruments.



In many cases, an exotic option can be purchased for a smaller premium than a comparable vanilla option. The lower costs are often due to the additional features that increase the chances of the option expiring worthless.



However, there are exotic-style options that are more expensive than their traditional counterparts, such as, for example, chooser options. Here, the "choice" increases the chances of the option closing ITM. Although the chooser may be more expensive than a single vanilla option, it could be cheaper than buying both a vanilla call and put if a big move is expected, but the trader is unsure of the direction.



Exotic options may also be suitable for companies that need to hedge up to or down to specific price levels in the underlying asset. Hedging involves placing an offsetting position or investment to offset adverse price movements in a security or portfolio. For example, barrier options can be an effective hedging tool because they come into existence or go out of existence at specific barrier price levels.


   Exotic Option Example  

Say an investor owns equity shares in Apple Inc. The investor purchased the stock at $150 per share and wants to protect the position in case the stock's price falls. The investor buys a Bermuda-style put option that expires in three months, with a strike price of $150. The option premium costs $2, or $200 since one option contract equals 100 shares.



The option protects the stock position from a decrease in price below $150 for the next three months. However, this Bermuda option has an exotic feature, allowing the investor to exercise early on the first of each month until expiry.



The stock price declines to $100 in month one, and by the first day of the option's second month, the investor exercises the put option. The investor sells the shares of Apple at $100 per share. However, the strike price of $150 for the put option pays the investor a $50 gain. The investor has exited the overall position, including the stock position and put option, for $150 minus the $2 premium paid for the put.



If Apple's stock price rose after the option was exercised in month two, say to $200 by the option's expiration date, the investor would have missed out on the profits by selling the position in month two.



Although exotic options provide flexibility and customization, they don't guarantee that the investor's choices and decisions of which strike price, expiration date, or whether to exercise early or not will be correct or profitable.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is the Expanded Accounting Equation?  

The expanded accounting equation is derived from the common accounting equation and illustrates in greater detail the different components of stockholders' equity in a company.



By decomposing equity into component parts, analysts can get a better idea of how profits are being used—as dividends, reinvested into the company, or retained as cash.





Key Takeaways

The expanded accounting equation is the same as the common accounting equation but decomposes equity into component parts.The components of equity include contributed capital, retained earnings, and revenue minus dividends.It also accounts for total assets and total liabilities.Some terminology may vary among different companies, depending on how they organize their balance sheets.


   The Formula for the Expanded Accounting Equation  

The expanded version of the accounting equation details the equity role in the basic accounting equation. The common form of the accounting equation is:


















Assets


=


Liabilities


+


Owner’s Equity
















where:
















Liabilities


=


All current and long-term debts
















and obligations
















Owner’s Equity


=


Assets available to shareholders
















after all liabilities







\begin{aligned} &\text{Assets} = \text{Liabilities} + \text{Owner's Equity}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{Liabilities} = \text{All current and long-term debts} \\ &\text{and obligations}\\ &\text{Owner's Equity} = \text{Assets available to shareholders} \\ &\text{after all liabilities}\\ \end{aligned}


​Assets=Liabilities+Owner’s Equitywhere:Liabilities=All current and long-term debtsand obligationsOwner’s Equity=Assets available to shareholdersafter all liabilities​



The expanded accounting equation decomposes equity into component parts:


















Assets


=


Liabilities


+


CC


+


BRE


+


R


−


E


−


D
















where:
















CC


=


Contributed Capital, capital provided by
















the original stockholders (also known as Paid-In Capital)
















BRE


=


Beginning Retained Earnings, earnings not
















distributed to stockholders from the previous period
















R


=


Revenue, what’s generated from the ongoing
















operation of the company
















E


=


Expenses, costs incurred to run operations of
















the business
















D


=


Dividends, earnings distributed to the stockholders
















of the company







\begin{aligned}&\text{Assets} = \text{Liabilities} + \text{CC} + \text{BRE} + \text{R} - \text{E} - \text{D} \\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{CC} = \text{Contributed Capital, capital provided by} \\&\text{the original stockholders (also known as Paid-In Capital)} \\&\text{BRE} = \text{Beginning Retained Earnings, earnings not} \\&\text{distributed to stockholders from the previous period} \\&\text{R} = \text{Revenue, what's generated from the ongoing} \\&\text{operation of the company} \\&\text{E} = \text{Expenses, costs incurred to run operations of} \\&\text{the business} \\&\text{D} = \text{Dividends, earnings distributed to the stockholders} \\&\text{of the company}\end{aligned}


​Assets=Liabilities+CC+BRE+R−E−Dwhere:CC=Contributed Capital, capital provided bythe original stockholders (also known as Paid-In Capital)BRE=Beginning Retained Earnings, earnings notdistributed to stockholders from the previous periodR=Revenue, what’s generated from the ongoingoperation of the companyE=Expenses, costs incurred to run operations ofthe businessD=Dividends, earnings distributed to the stockholdersof the company​


   How the Expanded Accounting Equation Works  

Sometimes, analysts want to better understand the composition of a company's shareholders' equity. Besides assets and liabilities, which are part of the general accounting equation, stockholders' equity is expanded into the following elements:



Contributed capital: This is the capital provided by the original stockholders (also known as paid-in capital).
Beginning retained earnings: Retained earnings are the earnings not distributed to the stockholders from the previous period.
Revenue: This is what's generated from the ongoing operation of the company.
Expenses: These are costs incurred to run operations of the business.
Dividends: These are subtracted since they are the earnings distributed to the stockholders of the company.



Contributed capital and dividends show the effect of transactions with the stockholders. The difference between the revenue and profit generated and expenses and losses incurred reflects the effect of net income (NI) on stockholders' equity. Overall, then, the expanded accounting equation is useful in identifying at a basic level how stockholders' equity in a firm changes from period to period.



Some terminology may vary depending on the type of entity structure. "Members' capital" and "owners' capital" are commonly used for partnerships and sole proprietorships, respectively, while "distributions" and "withdrawals" are substitute nomenclature for "dividends."






Revenues and expenses are often reported on the balance sheet as "net income."


   Real-World Examples of the Expanded Accounting Equation  
  Exxon Mobil  

Let's look at an actual historical example. Below is a portion of Exxon Mobil Corporation's (XOM) balance sheet as of September 30, 2018. 



Total assets were $354,628 (highlighted in green).Total liabilities were $157,797 (1st highlighted red area).Total equity was $196,831 (2nd highlighted red area).



The accounting equation whereby Assets = Liabilities + Shareholders' equity is calculated as follows:



Accounting equation = $157,797 (total liabilities) + $196,831 (equity) equal $354,628, which equals the total assets for the period.



We could also use the expanded accounting equation to see the effect of reinvested earnings ($419,155), other comprehensive income ($18,370), and treasury stock ($225,674). We could also look to XOM's income statement to identify the amount of revenues and dividends the company earned and paid out.















XOM Balance Sheet.


  Apple, Inc.  

For another example, consider the balance sheet for Apple, Inc., as published in the company's quarterly report on July 28, 2021.



For the quarter that ended on June 26, 2021, the company reported the following balances (in USD millions):



Total Assets: $329,840.Total Liabilities: $265,560.Total Shareholder's Equity: $64,280.



The components of Shareholder's equity are further divided on the consolidated financial statement (in millions):



Common stock and additional paid-in capital: $54,989Beginning retained earnings: $15,261.Net income (revenue minus expenses): $21,744Dividends and Dividend equivalents: $3,713Share repurchases: $22,500. (treated as a dividend in the expanded equation, since these funds are effectively used to benefit shareholders).Common stock withheld related to net share settlement of equity awards: $1,559.Accumulated other comprehensive income: $58.



Substituting for the appropriate terms of the expanded accounting equation, these figures add up to the total declared assets for Apple, Inc., which are worth $329,840 million U.S. dollars.




What Is the Expanded Accounting Equation?
The expanded accounting equation is a form of the basic accounting equation that includes the distinct components of owner's equity, such as dividends, shareholder capital, revenue, and expenses. The expanded equation is used to compare a company's assets with greater granularity than provided by the basic equation.




What Is the Basic Accounting Equation?
The basic accounting equation is used to calculate how much a company is worth, based on the amount of money that has already been invested and the cost of any obligations. The formula for the basic accounting equation is as follows:Assets = Liabilities + Owner’s Equity




When Should I Use the Basic Accounting Equation?
The basic accounting equation is used to provide a simple calculation of a company's value, based on a comparison of equity and liabilities. For a more specific breakdown of the components of equity, use the expanded equation instead.
What Is Expansion?  

Expansion is the phase of the business cycle where real gross domestic product (GDP) grows for two or more consecutive quarters, moving from a trough to a peak. Expansion is typically accompanied by a rise in employment, consumer confidence, and equity markets and is also referred to as an economic recovery.





Key Takeaways

Expansion is the phase of the business cycle when the economy moves from a trough to a peak.Expansions last on average about four to five years but have been known to go on anywhere from 10 months to more than a decade.Focusing on interest rates and capital expenditure can help investors to determine where we are in the business cycle.


   Understanding Expansion  

The rise and fall of economic growth is not a completely random, unexplainable phenomenon. Like the weather, the economy is believed to follow a cyclical path that continues to repeat itself over time. This process is called the business cycle and is broken down into four distinct, identifiable phases:



Expansion: The economy is moving out of recession. Money is cheap to borrow, businesses build up inventories again and consumers start spending. GDP rises, per capita income grows, unemployment declines, and equity markets generally perform well.
Peak: The expansion phase eventually peaks. Sharp demand leads the cost of goods to soar and suddenly economic indicators stop growing.
Contraction: Economic growth begins to weaken. Companies stop hiring as demand tapers off and then begin laying off staff to reduce expenses.
Trough: The economy transitions from the contraction phase to the expansion phase. The economy hits rock bottom, paving the way for a recovery. 



Economists, policymakers, and investors closely study business cycles. Learning about economic expansion and contraction patterns of the past can assist in forecasting potential future trends and identifying investment opportunities.



Expansions last on average about four to five years but have been known to go on anywhere from 10 months to more than 10 years.﻿﻿ The National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) determines the dates for business cycles in the United States.






The longest U.S. expansion on record lasted 128 months, or just over 10 and a half years, according to the NBER, ending in February 2020.


   Special Considerations  

Leading indicators such as average weekly hours worked by manufacturing employees, unemployment claims, new orders for consumer goods, and building permits all give clues as to whether an expansion or contraction is occurring in the near future. 



However, economists and analysts generally agree that there are two main forces that best determine corporate profits and the state of the general economy: capital expenditure (CapEx), the money companies spend on maintaining, improving, and buying new assets; and interest rates.


  The Credit Cycle  

When the economy needs a lift, policymakers try to lower borrowing costs, encouraging businesses and consumers to spend more. When the Federal Reserve (Fed) cuts interest rates, saving is no longer favorable and the expansion phase begins. Money flows freely through the economy, companies take on loans to fund expansion, job prospects improve, and consumer spending rockets.



Eventually, the cheap flow of money and subsequent increase in spending will cause inflation to rise, leading central banks to hike interest rates. Suddenly the onus is on encouraging people to rein in on spending and moderating economic growth. Company revenues fall, share prices decline, and the economy contracts again.


  The CapEx Cycle  

Several economists, including Irving Fisher, note that cycles move in tandem with company attempts to match ever-changing consumer demand. When the economy is growing, customers are buying and borrowing costs are cheap, management teams regularly seek to capitalize by ramping up production.



At first, this leads to higher sales and decent returns on invested capital (ROIC). Later, the competition gets fiercer and greed takes its toll. Eventually, supply outstrips demand, prices fall, early debt binges become more difficult to service, and companies are left with no choice but to lay off staff.
What Is an Expansionary Policy?  

Expansionary, or loose policy is a form of macroeconomic policy that seeks to encourage economic growth. Expansionary policy can consist of either monetary policy or fiscal policy (or a combination of the two). It is part of the general policy prescription of Keynesian economics, to be used during economic slowdowns and recessions in order to moderate the downside of economic cycles.





Key Takeaways

Expansionary policy seeks to stimulate an economy by boosting demand through monetary and fiscal stimulus.Expansionary fiscal policy includes issuing stimulus checks or creating tax breaks, while expansionary policy includes lowering the fed funds rate.Expansionary policy is intended to prevent or moderate economic downturns and recessions.Though popular, expansionary policy can involve significant costs and risks including macroeconomic, microeconomic, and political economy issues.Expansionary policy is directly related to the cause of inflation; though expansionary policies fight unemployment, it may unintentionally cause higher prices.












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   Understanding Expansionary Policy  

The basic objective of expansionary policy is to boost aggregate demand to make up for shortfalls in private demand. It is based on the ideas of Keynesian economics, particularly the idea that the main cause of recessions is a deficiency in aggregate demand. Expansionary policy is intended to boost business investment and consumer spending by injecting money into the economy either through direct government deficit spending or increased lending to businesses and consumers.



From a fiscal policy perspective, the government enacts expansionary policies through budgeting tools that provide people with more money. Increasing spending and cutting taxes to produce budget deficits means that the government is putting more money into the economy than it is taking out. Expansionary fiscal policy includes tax cuts, transfer payments, rebates and increased government spending on projects such as infrastructure improvements.



For example, it can increase discretionary government spending, infusing the economy with more money through government contracts. Additionally, it can cut taxes and leave a greater amount of money in the hands of the people who then go on to spend and invest.


   Types of Expansionary Policy  
  Expansionary Fiscal Policy  

Expansionary fiscal policy are policies enacted by a government that often increases or decreases the money supply to make changes to the economy. In other words, governments can directly give money to individuals, businesses, or taxpayers. Alternatively, to slow the economy, it can take it away.



During expansionary periods, governments can increase spending on infrastructure projects, social programs, and other initiatives to boost demand and stimulate economic growth. They may also enact tax cuts to reduce taxes, which puts more money in consumers' pockets and stimulates spending. Governments can also increase transfer payments such as welfare, unemployment, or other benefits to increase household income.


  Expansionary Monetary Policy  

Expansionary monetary policy works by expanding the money supply faster than usual or lowering short-term interest rates. It is enacted by central banks and comes about through open market operations, reserve requirements, and setting interest rates. The U.S. Federal Reserve employs expansionary policies whenever it lowers the benchmark federal funds rate or discount rate, decreases required reserves for banks or buys Treasury bonds on the open market. Quantitative Easing, or QE, is another form of expansionary monetary policy.



For example, when the benchmark federal funds rate is lowered, the cost of borrowing from the central bank decreases, giving banks greater access to cash that can be lent in the market. When reserve requirements decline, it allows banks to lend a higher proportion of their capital to consumers and businesses. When the central bank purchases debt instruments, it injects capital directly into the economy.






On Aug. 27, 2020, the Federal Reserve announced that it will no longer raise interest rates due to unemployment falling below a certain level if inflation remains low. It also changed its inflation target to an average, meaning that it will allow inflation to rise somewhat above its 2% target to make up for periods when it was below 2%.The Federal Reserve kept interest rates at 0% until March 2022; it then decided to pivot and begin combatting inflation by raising the rate.


   How Expansionary Policy Is Implemented  

Expansionary monetary policy is implemented by central banks to stimulate economic growth and combat economic slowdown. For the United States, the Federal Reserve is overseen by a collection of individuals. This Board of Governors that oversees the Federal Reserve System proposes, reviews, and votes on proposed regulation. These economic experts monitor macroeconomic conditions, implement changes, and review implications of those changes.



In other cases, measures are voted on my members of the government such as the House of Representative or Senate. These bills may include changes to tax policies, for example. This type of policy must be approved by all appropriate levels of government before implemented.



Once measures have passed by the Federal Reserve, the policies are communicated and implemented by the appropriate entities. For example, the IRS is then tasked with integrated tax breaks into Internal Revenue Codification. In another example, monetary rates are communicated through branches of lending, starting with the Federal Reserve branches and extending to other institutions.


   The Risks of Expansionary Monetary Policy  

Expansionary policy is a popular tool for managing low-growth periods in the business cycle, but it also comes with risks. These risks include macroeconomic, microeconomic, and political economy issues. Gauging when to engage in expansionary policy, how much to do, and when to stop requires sophisticated analysis and involves substantial uncertainties. Expanding too much can cause side effects such as high inflation or an overheated economy.


  Risk of Outdated Analysis  

There is a time lag between when a policy move is made and when it works its way through the economy. This makes up-to-the-minute analysis nearly impossible, even for the most seasoned economists. Prudent central bankers and legislators must know when to halt money supply growth or even reverse course and switch to a contractionary policy, which would involve taking the opposite steps of expansionary policy, such as raising interest rates.


  Risk of Macroeconomic Distortions  

Even under ideal conditions, expansionary fiscal and monetary policy risk creating microeconomic distortions through the economy. Simple economic models often portray the effects of expansionary policy as neutral to the structure of the economy as if the money injected into the economy were distributed uniformly and instantaneously across the economy.



In actual practice, monetary and fiscal policy both operate by distributing new money to specific individuals, businesses, and industries who then spend and circulate the new money to the rest of the economy. Rather than uniformly boosting aggregate demand, this means that expansionary policy always involves an effective transfer of purchasing power and wealth from the earlier recipients to the later recipients of the new money.


  Risk of Corruption  

In addition, like any government policy, an expansionary policy is potentially vulnerable to information and incentive problems. The distribution of the money injected by expansionary policy into the economy can obviously involve political considerations. Problems such as rent-seeking and principal-agent problems easily crop up whenever large sums of public money are up for grabs. And by definition, expansionary policy, whether fiscal or monetary, involves the distribution of large sums of public money.






There is no clear signal whether a government should expand or contract an economy. All it can do is evaluate all available data and decide what may be the best course of action. For this reason, expansionary policy is often controversial as it is driven by opinion.


   Effects of Expansionary Policy  

When the government enacts expansionary policy, there are far-reaching effects that impact economies in a number of ways.



When interest rates are lowered, the availability of credit is increased. This leads to an increase in consumer spending, driving economic growth. After all, the end goal of expansionary policy is to heat up the economy. The primary effect (or intended effect) of expansionary policy is to make people acquire and spend more money.



This effect also translates into business activity. Expansionary policy can also stimulate business investment by making it cheaper to borrow money for capital expenditures, leading to increased job creation and economic growth. For this reason, it's common for jobs to have more job openings or job creations during expansionary policy since capital is easier to come by.



Because consumers have more money and companies are hiring more, expansionary policy results in an increase in demand for goods and services. This often leads to more favorable manufacturing information, especially for firms that also invest in expansion using low cost of capital. This also creates a more balanced system of trades as companies undergoing expansionary policy may be cheaper to export.



All of this activity is meant to stimulate an economy. Unfortunately, in order to reduce unemployment, the primary negative effect of expansionary policy is inflation. An increase in the money supply can lead to inflation if it outpaces the growth of the economy. This means that prices, wages, and input costs increase; though people have more money (or better access to money), the prices they pay will be higher.


   Examples of Expansionary Policy  

A major example of expansionary policy is the response following the 2008 financial crisis when central banks around the world lowered interest rates to near-zero and conducted major stimulus spending programs. In the United States, this included the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and multiple rounds of quantitative easing by the U.S. Federal Reserve. U.S. policy makers spent and lent trillions of dollars into the U.S. economy in order to support domestic aggregate demand and prop up the financial system.



In a more recent example, declining oil prices from 2014 through the second quarter of 2016 caused many economies to slow down. Canada was hit especially hard in the first half of 2016, with almost one-third of its entire economy based in the energy sector. This caused bank profits to decline, making Canadian banks vulnerable to failure.



To combat these low oil prices, Canada enacted an expansionary monetary policy by reducing interest rates within the country. The expansionary policy was targeted to boost economic growth domestically. However, the policy also meant a decrease in net interest margins for Canadian banks, squeezing bank profits.


   Expansionary Policy During COVID-19  

A more recent and extreme example of expansionary policy occurred during the COVID-19 pandemic. In response to temporary business closures and an immediately halted economy, the Federal government lowered interest rates from 1.5%-1.75% to 0%-0.25% around March 2020. In seemingly overnight, governments tried to make it as easy as possible for consumers and businesses to receive low-cost debt.



In an example of fiscal policy, the IRS issued three Economic Impact Payments during the pandemic. Taxpayers, assuming they did not exceed income thresholds, could receive three different payments: $1,200 in April 2020, $600 in December 2020, and $1,400 in March 2021. There were also additional Child Tax Credit opportunities.



One last example of expansionary policy during COVID-19 was the Federal Reserve's open market operations. The Treasury raised trillions of dollars by issuing Treasury bills, and the Treasury also held a historically high operating cash amount of $1.6 trillion on hand. It also increased its purchase of Treasury Securities and other debt instruments to inject capital into the market; it was not until 2022 that the Federal Reserve began easing these purchases.




What Are Some Examples of Expansionary Monetary Policy?
The Federal Reserve often tweaks the Federal funds reserve rate as its primary tool of expansionary monetary policy. Increasing the fed rate contracts the economy, while decreasing the fed rate increases the economy.




How Does Expansionary Policy Affect Inflation?
Expansionary policy often has the unintended consequence of creating (or increasing) inflation. The Federal Reserve usually has to choose between combatting unemployment and inflation; any policies set forth to battle one usually increases the other. This is because expansionary policy usually means people have more money at their disposal. Due to greater demand for products, more consumers are able to purchase goods at higher prices.




What Monetary Policy Reduces Inflation?
Opposite of expansionary policy, the Federal Reserve may also enact contractionary policies. These policies are meant to slow the economy, make debt more expensive to come by, and shrink the money supply. By slowing the economy, reducing consumer demand, and slowing business growth, inflation often slows though unemployment is put at risk to increase.


   The Bottom Line  

Expansionary policy is a set of economic measures taken by a government or central bank to stimulate economic growth. These policies are intended to increase demand and aggregate spending. The goal of expansionary policy is to boost the economy during periods of slow growth or recession, though it may unintentionally increase the rate of annual inflation.
What Is an Expatriate?  

An expatriate, or expat, is an individual living and/or working in a country other than their country of citizenship, often temporarily and for work reasons. An expatriate can also be an individual who has relinquished citizenship in their home country to become a citizen of another.





Key Takeaways

An expatriate is somebody who has left their country of origin in order to reside in another country.Expats may leave home for work reasons and seek more lucrative employment in a different country.Expatriates may live for a while overseas or completely renounce their citizenship of one country in favor of another.Retiring abroad has become an increasingly popular option.The IRS may impose an expatriation tax on individuals who renounce their citizenship, usually based on the value of a taxpayer's property or income in the United States.


   Understanding Expatriates  

An expatriate is a migrant worker who is a professional or skilled worker in their profession. The worker takes a position outside of their home country, either independently or as a work assignment scheduled by the employer, which can be a company, university, government, or non-governmental organization. If your employer sends you from your job in its Silicon Valley office to work for an extended period in its Toronto office, you would be considered an expatriate or "expat" after you arrive in Toronto.



Expats usually earn more than they would at home, and more than local employees. In addition to salary, businesses sometimes give their expatriate employees benefits such as relocation assistance and housing allowance. The expat will need to open a local bank account that will allow them to function in their new home



Living as an expatriate can be exciting and present an excellent opportunity for career advancement and global business exposure, but it can also be an emotionally difficult transition that involves separation from friends and family while adjusting to an unfamiliar culture and work environment. Hence, the reason behind the higher compensation offered to these migrant workers.


   Special Considerations: Retiring Abroad  

Much expatriation occurs during retirement. While most Americans spend their retirement in the U.S., a growing number are opting to retire overseas. People are motivated to relocate abroad at an older age for several reasons, including lower cost of living, better climate, access to beaches, or some combination of those and other reasons. However, it can also be tricky to navigate taxes, long-stay visas, and the language and cultural differences experienced when settling down in other countries.






Popular retirement destinations include countries in Central America, the Caribbean, and parts of Asia.



A common choice presented to a retiree expat is between permanent residency and dual citizenship. Note that neither dual citizenship nor residency gets you out of filing a U.S. tax return every year. It is both surprising and burdensome, but Americans still have to pay income taxes wherever they live, and they owe it no matter where their income was earned. You may also have to file an income tax return in your country of residence, although most deduct the amount American residents pay to the U.S. via treaties that minimize double taxation.



If you're a retiree or near-retiree who's on the fence, you face a tough decision that will require some soul searching and research—and maybe a trip abroad (or several) to test the waters before you make any decisions.


   Foreign Earned Income Exclusion  

For Americans working abroad as expatriates, complying with United States income tax regulations is an added challenge and financial burden because the U.S. taxes its citizens on income earned abroad. To avoid double taxation, the U.S. tax code contains provisions that help to reduce tax liability. Taxes paid in a foreign country can be used as a tax credit in the U.S., which when applied against the expat’s tax bill, reduces it.



The Foreign Earned Income Exclusion (FEIE), for example, allows expats to exclude from their tax returns a certain amount of their foreign income, which is indexed to inflation. For 2022, this amount is $112,000. For 2023, it is $120,000. An expat that earns, say $180,000 in 2022 from their job in a foreign country that is tax-free will only need to pay U.S. federal income tax on $180,000 - $112,00 = $68,000.


   Foreign Tax Credit  

The FEIE does not apply to rental income or investment income. Therefore, any income made from interest or capital gains from investments will have to be reported to the IRS. The Foreign Tax Credit (FTC) is a provision that ensures expats are not double-taxed on their capital gains. For example, assume an expat falls in the 35% income tax bracket in the U.S. This means their long-term capital gain on any investment is taxed at 15%.



Since the FTC provides a dollar-for-dollar credit against taxes paid to a foreign country, if the expat paid 10% tax to the country where they work, they'd only have to pay 5% tax to the U.S. Likewise, if they pay no tax to the foreign country, they’ll owe the full 15% tax to the U.S. government.



If the income tax paid to a foreign government far exceeds the amount of the credit (because the foreign tax rate far exceeded the U.S. rate), the expat will forfeit that amount. The credit, however, can be carried into the future.


   Expatriation Tax  

An individual who has renounced their citizenship in their home country and moves to another is also referred to as an expatriate for tax purposes and is subject to an exit tax known as expatriation tax.



According to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), the expatriation tax provisions apply to U.S. citizens who have renounced their citizenship and long-term residents who have ended their U.S. residency for tax purposes, if one of the principal purposes of the action is the avoidance of U.S. taxes. This emigration tax applies to individuals who:



Have a net worth of at least $2 million on the date of expatriation or termination of residency
Have an average annual net income tax liability that is more than $178,000 if the expatriation date was in 2022 ($190,000 if the expatriation date is in 2023) over the five years ending before the date of expatriation or termination of residency
Do not (or cannot) certify five years of U.S. tax compliance for the five years preceding the date of their expatriation or termination of residency


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Becoming an Expatriate  

Living and working in another country for an extended period of time can have its benefits. These can range from new experiences and adventure to more practical considerations like a lower cost of living or being closer to extended family abroad. Depending on where you settle, you may also get government perks like free healthcare and education and more favorable taxation.



There are also some potential drawbacks. Regarding taxation, unless you fully relinquish your American citizenship, you will still need to file tax returns each year and may need to pay taxes to Uncle Sam, even on income earned in your new country.



You'll also be a long way from home, potentially. This can make seeing friends and family more difficult, and time zone differences can also interfere with finding a good time to link up by phone or video chat. Learning a new language and customs can also be difficult for some, and certain items or products that you like may not be available where you live. And remember that not all countries enjoy the same level of political and economic stability that the U.S. does.





Pros

New experiences and maybe a better climate
Potentially lower cost of living
Potential access to affordable healthcare



Cons

Potential for double taxation
Long way away from friends and family
Language, cultural, political, and economic barriers
Potential challenges securing the proper visa







What Does It Mean to Become an Expatriate?
An expatriate or "expat" is somebody who leaves their country of origin and settles abroad for an extended period of time, often permanently.




How Do Americans Become Expats?
If you are an American citizen and move to another country and plan to stay there, you have become an expat.




What Country Has the Most Expats?
The United Arab Emirates (UAE) and the U.S. follow Saudi Arabia in the rankings for the largest number of expats. The expat population makes up 98.4% of Saudi Arabia's total immigration population. Poland, Portugal, and Sweden had the smallest expat populations. Qatar had the highest proportion of expats compared to its total population, at 70.9%.




What Is Expat Taxation?
Americans living overseas still have to file U.S. tax returns unless they relinquish their American citizenship. Several international tax treaties exist to help minimize double taxation.




What Is an Expat Community?
When people relocate to a foreign country, they often find comfort in seeking out other foreigners, especially from their home country. Expat communities are enclaves of people from a similar national origin, often with their own school and shopping options. In many countries, English-speaking enclaves are called "Anglo" communities.


   The Bottom Line  

Expats typically have to navigate a complex web of tax rules and regulations, which can be challenging to understand and comply with. Though retiring abroad to a lower cost of living, there are retirement considerations to comply with. In addition, expat U.S. Federal taxes are complicated, though they may rely on tax credits and income exclusions to receive favorable U.S. tax treatment.
What Is Expectations Theory?  

Expectations theory attempts to predict what short-term interest rates will be in the future based on current long-term interest rates. The theory suggests that an investor earns the same interest by investing in two consecutive one-year bond investments versus investing in one two-year bond today. The theory is also known as the "unbiased expectations theory."






Expectations theory predicts future short-term interest rates based on current long-term interest ratesThe theory suggests that an investor earns the same amount of interest by investing in two consecutive one-year bond investments versus investing in one two-year bond todayIn theory, long-term rates can be used to indicate where rates of short-term bonds will trade in the future












Investopedia / Jessica Olah


   Understanding Expectations Theory  

The expectations theory aims to help investors make decisions based upon a forecast of future interest rates. The theory uses long-term rates, typically from government bonds, to forecast the rate for short-term bonds. In theory, long-term rates can be used to indicate where rates of short-term bonds will trade in the future.


  Calculating Expectations Theory  

Let's say that the present bond market provides investors with a two-year bond that pays an interest rate of 20% while a one-year bond pays an interest rate of 18%. The expectations theory can be used to forecast the interest rate of a future one-year bond.



The first step of the calculation is to add one to the two-year bond’s interest rate. The result is 1.2.The next step is to square the result or (1.2 * 1.2 = 1.44).Divide the result by the current one-year interest rate and add one or ((1.44 / 1.18) +1 = 1.22).To calculate the forecast one-year bond interest rate for the following year, subtract one from the result or (1.22 -1 = 0.22 or 22%).



In this example, the investor is earning an equivalent return to the present interest rate of a two-year bond. If the investor chooses to invest in a one-year bond at 18%, the bond yield for the following year’s bond would need to increase to 22% for this investment to be advantageous.






Expectations theory aims to help investors make decisions by using long-term rates, typically from government bonds, to forecast the rate for short-term bonds.


   Disadvantages of Expectations Theory  

Investors should be aware that the expectations theory is not always a reliable tool. A common problem with using the expectations theory is that it sometimes overestimates future short-term rates, making it easy for investors to end up with an inaccurate prediction of a bond’s yield curve.



Another limitation of the theory is that many factors impact short-term and long-term bond yields. The Federal Reserve adjusts interest rates up or down, which impacts bond yields, including short-term bonds. However, long-term yields might be less affected because many other factors impact long-term yields, including inflation and economic growth expectations.



As a result, the expectations theory does not consider the outside forces and fundamental macroeconomic factors that drive interest rates and, ultimately, bond yields.


   Expectations Theory Versus Preferred Habitat Theory  

The preferred habitat theory takes the expectations theory one step further. The theory states that investors have a preference for short-term bonds over long-term bonds unless the latter pay a risk premium. In other words, if investors are going to hold onto a long-term bond, they want to be compensated with a higher yield to justify the risk of holding the investment until maturity.



The preferred habitat theory can help explain, in part, why longer-term bonds typically pay out a higher interest rate than two shorter-term bonds that, when added together, result in the same maturity.



When comparing the preferred habitat theory to the expectations theory, the difference is that the former assumes investors are concerned with maturity as well as yield. In contrast, the expectations theory assumes that investors are only concerned with yield.
What Is the Expected Loss Ratio – ELR Method?  

Expected loss ratio (ELR) method is a technique used to determine the projected amount of claims, relative to earned premiums. The expected loss ratio (ELR) method is used when an insurer lacks the appropriate past claims occurrence data to provide because of changes to its product offerings and when it lacks a large enough sample of data for long-tail product lines.


   The Formula for the ELR Method Is  

﻿















E


L


R


 


M


e


t


h


o


d


=


E


P


 


∗


 


E


L


R


 


−


P


a


i


d


 


L


o


s


s


e


s
















where:
















EP = Earned premiums








\begin{aligned} &ELR\ Method = EP\ *\ ELR\ - Paid\ Losses\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{EP = Earned premiums}\\ \end{aligned}


​ELR Method=EP ∗ ELR −Paid Losseswhere:EP = Earned premiums​﻿


   How to Calculate Expected Loss Ratio – ELR Method  

To calculate the expected loss ratio method multiply earned premiums by the expected loss ratio and then subtract paid losses.


   What Does the ELR Method Tell You?  

Insurers set aside a portion of their premiums from underwriting new policies in order to pay for future claims. The expected loss ratio is used to determine how much they set aside. It's also important to note that the frequency and severity of the claims they expect to experience also plays a role. Insurers use a variety of forecasting methods in order to determine claims reserves.



In certain instances, such as new lines of business, the ELR method may be the only possible way to figure out the appropriate level of loss reserves required. The ELR method can also be used to set the loss reserve for particular business lines and policy periods. The expected loss ratio, multiplied by the appropriate earned premium figure, will produce the estimated ultimate losses (paid or incurred). However, for certain lines of business, government regulations may dictate the minimum levels of loss reserves required.






Used to determine the projected amount of claims, relative to earned premiums.Insurers set aside a portion of premiums from policies to pay for future claims—the expected loss ratio determines how much they set aside.ELR is used for businesses or business lines that lack past data, while the chain ladder method is used for stable businesses.


   Example of How to Use Expected Loss Ratio (ELR) Method  

Insurers can also use expected loss ratio to calculate the incurred but not reported (IBNR) reserve and total reserve. The expected loss ratio is the ratio of ultimate losses to earned premiums. The ultimate losses can be calculated as the earned premium multiplied by the expected loss ratio. The total reserve is calculated as the ultimate losses less paid losses. The IBNR reserve is calculated as the total reserve less the cash reserve.



For example, an insurer has earned premiums of $10,000,000 and an expected loss ratio of 0.60. Over the course of the year, it has paid losses of $750,000 and cash reserves of $900,000. The insurer’s total reserve would be $5,250,000 ($10,000,000 * 0.60 - $750,000), and its IBNR reserve would be $4,350,000 ($5,250,000 - $900,000).


   The Difference Between the ELR Method and the Chain Ladder Method (CLM)  

Both the ELR and the chain ladder method (CLM) measure claim reserves, where the CLM uses past data to predict what happens in the future. While the expected loss ratio (ELR) is used when there’s little past data to go off of, CLM is used for stable businesses and business lines.


   Limitations of Using the ELR Method  

The amount of claims reserves that an insurer should set aside is determined by actuarial models and forecasting methods. Insurers often use the expected loss ratio on the amount and quality of data that is available. It is often useful in the early stages of forecasting because it does not take into account actual paid losses, but in later stages, this lack of sensitivity to changes in reported and paid losses makes it less accurate and thus, less useful.


   Learn More About the Expected Loss Ratio (ELR) Method  

See more about calculating the profitability of insurance companies with loss and combined ratios.
What Is Expected Value?  

Expected value (EV) is an anticipated average value for an investment at some point in the future. Investors use expected value to estimate the worth of investments, often relative to their risk.



Modern portfolio theory (MPT), for instance, attempts to solve for the optimal portfolio allocation based on investments' expected values and standard deviations (i.e., risk).



In statistics and probability analysis, the expected value is calculated by multiplying each of the possible outcomes by the likelihood each outcome will occur and then summing all of those values.



By calculating expected values, investors can choose the scenario most likely to produce the outcome that they seek.





Key Takeaways

Expected value describes the long-term average level of a random variable based on its probability distribution.In investing, the expected value of a stock or other investment is an important consideration and is used in scenario analyses.Modern portfolio theory uses expected value in conjunction with an investment's risk (standard deviation) to come up with optimized portfolios.Expected value can help investors size up whether an investment's risk is worth the potential reward.


   Understanding Expected Value  

The EV of a random variable gives a measure of the center of the distribution of the variable. Essentially, the EV is the long-term average value of the variable. Because of the law of large numbers, the average value of the variable converges to the EV as the number of repetitions approaches infinity. EV is also known as expectation, the mean or the first moment.



EV can be calculated for single discrete variables, single continuous variables, multiple discrete variables, and multiple continuous variables. For continuous variable situations, integrals must be used.



Scenario analysis is one technique for calculating the EV of an investment opportunity. It uses estimated probabilities with multivariate models to examine possible outcomes for a proposed investment. Scenario analysis also helps investors to determine whether they are taking on an appropriate level of risk given the likely outcome of the investment.






The difference between expected value and arithmetic mean is that the first involves a distribution of probability and the second involves a distribution of occurrence.


   Formula for Expected Value  










E


V


=


∑


P


(



X


i



)


×



X


i








\begin{aligned} EV=\sum P(X_i)\times X_i\end{aligned}


EV=∑P(Xi​)×Xi​​



where:



X is a random variableP(X) is the probability of the random variable



Thus, the EV of a random variable X is taken as each value of the random variable multiplied by its probability, and each of those products is summed.


   Example of Expected Value  

To calculate the EV for a single discrete random variable, you must multiply the value of the variable by the probability of that value occurring.
Take, for example, a normal six-sided die. Once you roll the die, it has an equal one-sixth chance of landing on one, two, three, four, five, or six. Given this information, the calculation is straightforward:









(



1


6



×


1


)









+



(



1


6



×


2


)



+



(



1


6



×


3


)

















+



(



1


6



×


4


)



+



(



1


6



×


5


)



+



(



1


6



×


6


)



=


3.5







\begin{aligned}\left(\frac{1}{6}\times1\right)&+\left(\frac{1}{6}\times2\right)+\left(\frac{1}{6}\times3\right)\\&+\left(\frac{1}{6}\times4\right)+\left(\frac{1}{6}\times5\right)+\left(\frac{1}{6}\times6\right)=3.5\end{aligned}


(61​×1)​+(61​×2)+(61​×3)+(61​×4)+(61​×5)+(61​×6)=3.5​
If you were to roll a six-sided die an infinite amount of times, you would find that the average value equals 3.5.




What Is a Dividend Stock's Expected Value?
The expected value of a stock is estimated as the net present value (NPV) of all future dividends that the stock pays. If you can estimate the growth rate of the dividends, you can predict how much investors should willingly pay for the stock using a dividend discount model such as the Gordon growth model (GGM).




How Do I Find the Expected Value of a Stock That Doesn't Pay Dividends?
For non-dividend stocks, analysts often use a multiples approach to come up with expected value. For example. the price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio is often used and compared to industry peers. So, if the tech industry has an average P/E of 25x, a tech stock's EV would be 25 times its earnings per share.




How Is the Expected Value of a Stock Used in Portfolio Theory?
Modern portfolio theory and related models use mean-variance optimization to come up with the best portfolio allocation on a risk-adjusted basis. Risk is measured as the portfolio's standard deviation, and the mean is the expected value (expected return) of the portfolio.


   The Bottom Line  

Comprehending the concept of expected value is important for investors. It can aid them in determining the level of return that they might expect from an investment.



Expected value and scenario analysis can provide insight into the risk of an investment versus its return and help an investor decide whether or not to include it in their portfolio.
What Is Expected Return?  

The expected return is the profit or loss that an investor anticipates on an investment that has known historical rates of return (RoR). It is calculated by multiplying potential outcomes by the chances of them occurring and then totaling these results.





Key Takeaways

The expected return is the amount of profit or loss an investor can anticipate receiving on an investment.An expected return is calculated by multiplying potential outcomes by the odds of them occurring and then totaling these results.Expected returns cannot be guaranteed.The expected return for a portfolio containing multiple investments is the weighted average of the expected return of each of the investments.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding Expected Return  

Expected return calculations are a key piece of both business operations and financial theory, including in the well-known models of the modern portfolio theory (MPT) or the Black-Scholes options pricing model. For example, if an investment has a 50% chance of gaining 20% and a 50% chance of losing 10%, the expected return would be 5% = (50% x 20% + 50% x -10% = 5%).



The expected return is a tool used to determine whether an investment has a positive or negative average net outcome. The sum is calculated as the expected value (EV) of an investment given its potential returns in different scenarios, as illustrated by the following formula:



Expected Return = Σ (Returni x Probabilityi)



where "i" indicates each known return and its respective probability in the series



The expected return is usually based on historical data and is therefore not guaranteed into the future; however, it does often set reasonable expectations. Therefore, the expected return figure can be thought of as a long-term weighted average of historical returns.



In the formulation above, for instance, the 5% expected return may never be realized in the future, as the investment is inherently subject to systematic and unsystematic risks. Systematic risk is the danger to a market sector or the entire market, whereas unsystematic risk applies to a specific company or industry.


   Calculating Expected Return  

When considering individual investments or portfolios, a more formal equation for the expected return of a financial investment is:















Expected return = risk free premium + Beta (expected market return - risk free premium).
 Investopedia



where:



ra = expected return;
rf = the risk-free rate of return;
β = the investment's beta; and
rm =the expected market return



In essence, this formula states that the expected return in excess of the risk-free rate of return depends on the investment's beta, or relative volatility compared to the broader market.



The expected return and standard deviation are two statistical measures that can be used to analyze a portfolio. The expected return of a portfolio is the anticipated amount of returns that a portfolio may generate, making it the mean (average) of the portfolio's possible return distribution. The standard deviation of a portfolio, on the other hand, measures the amount that the returns deviate from its mean, making it a proxy for the portfolio's risk.






The expected return is not absolute, as it is a projection and not a realized return.


   Limitations of the Expected Return  

To make investment decisions solely on expected return calculations can be quite naïve and dangerous. Before making any investment decisions, one should always review the risk characteristics of investment opportunities to determine if the investments align with their portfolio goals.



For example, assume two hypothetical investments exist. Their annual performance results for the last five years are:



Investment A: 12%, 2%, 25%, -9%, and 10%Investment B: 7%, 6%, 9%, 12%, and 6%



Both of these investments have expected returns of exactly 8%. However, when analyzing the risk of each, as defined by the standard deviation, investment A is approximately five times riskier than investment B. That is, investment A has a standard deviation of 11.26% and investment B has a standard deviation of 2.28%. Standard deviation is a common statistical metric used by analysts to measure an investment's historical volatility, or risk.



In addition to expected returns, investors should also consider the likelihood of that return. After all, one can find instances where certain lotteries offer a positive expected return, despite the very low chances of realizing that return.





Pros

Gauges the performance of an asset
Weighs different scenarios



Cons

Doesn't take risk into account
Based largely on historic data





   Expected Return Example  

The expected return does not just apply to a single security or asset. It can also be expanded to analyze a portfolio containing many investments. If the expected return for each investment is known, the portfolio's overall expected return is a weighted average of the expected returns of its components.



For example, let's assume we have an investor interested in the tech sector. Their portfolio contains the following stocks:



Alphabet Inc., (GOOG): $500,000 invested and an expected return of 15%
Apple Inc. (AAPL): $200,000 invested and an expected return of 6%
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN): $300,000 invested and an expected return of 9%



With a total portfolio value of $1 million the weights of Alphabet, Apple, and Amazon in the portfolio are 50%, 20%, and 30%, respectively.



Thus, the expected return of the total portfolio is:



(50% x 15%) + (20% x 6%) + (30% x 9%) = 11.4%




How Is Expected Return Used in Finance?
Expected return calculations are a key piece of both business operations and financial theory, including in the well-known models of modern portfolio theory (MPT) or the Black-Scholes options pricing model. It is a tool used to determine whether an investment has a positive or negative average net outcome. The calculation is usually based on historical data and therefore cannot be guaranteed for future results, however, it can set reasonable expectations.




What Are Historical Returns?
Historical returns are the past performance of a security or index, such as the S&P 500. Analysts review historical return data when trying to predict future returns or to estimate how a security might react to a particular economic situation, such as a drop in consumer spending. Historical returns can also be useful when estimating where future points of data may fall in terms of standard deviations.




How Does Expected Return Differ From Standard Deviation?
Expected return and standard deviation are two statistical measures that can be used to analyze a portfolio. The expected return of a portfolio is the anticipated amount of returns that a portfolio may generate, making it the mean (average) of the portfolio's possible return distribution. Standard deviation of a portfolio, on the other hand, measures the amount that the returns deviate from its mean, making it a proxy for the portfolio's risk.


   The Bottom Line  

Expected return is an estimate of the average return that an investment or portfolio investments should generate over a certain period of time. In general, riskier assets or securities demand a higher expected return to compensate for the additional risk. Expected return is not a guarantee, but rather a prediction based on historical data and other relevant factors. It can be used by investors to compare different investment options and make informed decisions about their portfolios, and is a key input for various financial models such as modern portfolio theory (MPT) and the capital asset pricing model (CAPM).
What Is Expected Utility?  

"Expected utility" is an economic term summarizing the utility that an entity or aggregate economy is expected to reach under any number of circumstances. The expected utility is calculated by taking the weighted average of all possible outcomes under certain circumstances. With the weights being assigned by the likelihood or probability, any particular event will occur.





Key Takeaways

Expected utility refers to the utility of an entity or aggregate economy over a future period of time, given unknowable circumstances.Expected utility theory is used as a tool for analyzing situations in which individuals must make a decision without knowing the outcomes that may result from that decisionThe expected utility theory was first posited by Daniel Bernoulli who used it to solve the St. Petersburg Paradox.Expected utility is also used to evaluate situations without immediate payback, such as purchasing insurance.


   Understanding Expected Utility  

The expected utility of an entity is derived from the expected utility hypothesis. This hypothesis states that under uncertainty, the weighted average of all possible levels of utility will best represent the utility at any given point in time.



Expected utility theory is used as a tool for analyzing situations in which individuals must make a decision without knowing the outcomes that may result from that decision, i.e., decision making under uncertainty. These individuals will choose the action that will result in the highest expected utility, which is the sum of the products of probability and utility over all possible outcomes. The decision made will also depend on the agent’s risk aversion and the utility of other agents.



This theory also notes that the utility of money does not necessarily equate to the total value of money. This theory helps explain why people may take out insurance policies to cover themselves for various risks. The expected value from paying for insurance would be to lose out monetarily. The possibility of large-scale losses could lead to a serious decline in utility because of the diminishing marginal utility of wealth.


   History of the Expected Utility Concept  

The concept of expected utility was first posited by Daniel Bernoulli, who used it to solve the St. Petersburg Paradox.



The St. Petersburg Paradox can be illustrated as a game of chance in which a coin is tossed at each game's play. For instance, if the stakes start at $2 and double every time heads appear, once the first time tails appear the game ends, and the player wins whatever is in the pot.



Under such game rules, the player wins $2 if tails appear on the first toss, $4 if heads appear on the first toss and tails on the second, $8 if heads appear on the first two tosses and tails on the third, and so on.



Mathematically, the player wins 2k dollars, where k equals the number of tosses (k must be a whole number and greater than zero). Assuming the game can continue as long as the coin toss results in heads and, in particular, that the casino has unlimited resources, in theory, the sum is limitless. Thus the expected win for repeated play is an infinite amount of money.



Bernoulli solved the St. Petersburg Paradox by distinguishing between the expected value and expected utility, as the latter uses weighted utility multiplied by probabilities instead of using weighted outcomes.


   Expected Utility vs. Marginal Utility  

Expected utility is also related to the concept of marginal utility. The expected utility of a reward or wealth decreases when a person is rich or has sufficient wealth. In such cases, a person may choose the safer option as opposed to a riskier one.



For example, consider the case of a lottery ticket with expected winnings of $1 million. Suppose a person with comparatively fewer resources buys the ticket for $1. A wealthy person offers to buy the ticket off them for $500,000. Logically, the lottery holder has a 50-50 chance of profiting from the transaction. It is likely that they will opt for the safer option of selling the ticket and pocketing the $500,000. This is due to the diminishing marginal utility of amounts over $500,000 for the ticket holder. In other words, it is much more profitable for them to get from $0 - $500,000 than from $500,000 - $1 million.



Now consider the same offer made to a very wealthy person, possibly a millionaire. Likely, the millionaire will not sell the ticket because they hope to make another million from it.



A 1999 paper by economist Matthew Rabin argued that the expected utility theory is implausible over modest stakes. This means that the expected utility theory fails when the incremental marginal utility amounts are insignificant.


   Example of Expected Utility  

Decisions involving expected utility are decisions involving uncertain outcomes. An individual calculates the probability of expected outcomes in such events and weighs them against the expected utility before making a decision.



For example, purchasing a lottery ticket represents two possible outcomes for the buyer. They could end up losing the amount they invested in buying the ticket, or they could end up making a smart profit by winning either a portion of the entire lottery. Assigning probability values to the costs involved (in this case, the nominal purchase price of a lottery ticket), it is not difficult to see that the expected utility to be gained from purchasing a lottery ticket is greater than not buying it.



Expected utility is also used to evaluate situations without immediate payback, such as purchasing insurance. When one weighs the expected utility to be gained from making payments in an insurance product (possible tax breaks and guaranteed income at the end of a predetermined period) versus the expected utility of retaining the investment amount and spending it on other opportunities and products, insurance seems like a better option.
What Is the Expedited Funds Availability Act?  

The Expedited Funds Availability Act (EFAA) was implemented to regulate the hold periods on deposits made to commercial banks. Enacted by the U.S. Congress in 1987, the EFAA also standardized financial institutions' use of the deposit holds. The EFAA specifies the types of holds that banks can utilize on a check deposit, depending on the type of account and the amount of the deposit.





Key Takeaways

The Expedited Funds Availability Act (EFAA) regulates the hold periods that commercial banks can make on deposits.The four main types of deposit hold types are statutory, large deposit, new account, and exception holds.In addition, the EFAA specifies that checks from insurance drawn on in-state banks must be made available five business days after deposit. 


   Understanding the Expedited Funds Availability Act (EFAA)  

The Expedited Funds Availability Act (EFAA) intends to standardize the handling of deposit holds. Banks and other financial institutions must inform customers of their policies regarding deposit holds, as well as any changes to the policies. The Federal Reserve has implemented the EFAA as Regulation CC.


   Hold Types Allowed Under EFAA  

The EFAA, or Regulation CC, allows banks to place four types of holds on deposited funds. These are:



StatutoryLarge depositNew accountException



Specific requirements must be met for each type of hold, and some banks will require, as a matter of policy, that funds be held under the hold type that allows the largest amount to be held for the longest period, legally.


   Statutory Holds  

Statutory holds can be placed on almost any deposit; under this type of hold, the bank must make the first $200 of the deposit available on the next business day after the deposit is made, the second $600 available on the second business day after the deposit is made, and the rest on the third business day.


   Large Deposit Holds  

Large deposit holds are placed when the total of deposits made in one business day is more than $5,000. The availability rules for the first and second business day after the deposit are the same as for a statutory hold, but on the third business day, the bank must make $4,800 of the deposit available, with any remaining amount made available on the seventh business day after the deposit.


   New Account Holds  

New account holds are placed on deposits made to accounts that are less than 30 days old. These holds are lifted on the ninth business day after the deposit.


   Exception Holds  

Exception holds are used for accounts that have been frequently overdrawn, or when banks have reason to suspect that a deposit is legitimate. In rarer cases, they may be used if the bank branch suffers a power outage or a computer system failure. In most cases, however, exception holds are used when an account has been overdrawn for at least six business days out of the six months prior to the deposit, or at least two business days if the account has been overdrawn in an amount more than $5,000. An exception hold may be placed if the bank suspects that the check is fraudulent or won’t clear. It may also be placed on an instrument that has been previously returned for insufficient funds. Exception holds are lifted on the seventh business day after the deposit is made.


   Insurance Checks  

Funds from insurance checks drawn on in-state banks must be made available on the fifth business day after deposit. If the bank is out of state, the funds must be available by the seventh business day after the deposit.
What Is the Expenditure Method?  

The expenditure method is a system for calculating gross domestic product (GDP) that combines consumption, investment, government spending, and net exports. It is the most common way to estimate GDP. It says everything that the private sector, including consumers and private firms, and government spend within the borders of a particular country, must add up to the total value of all finished goods and services produced over a certain period of time. This method produces nominal GDP, which must then be adjusted for inflation to result in the real GDP.



The expenditure method may be contrasted with the income approach for calculated GDP.





Key Takeaways

The expenditure method is the most common way of calculating a country's GDP.This method adds up consumer spending, investment, government expenditure, and net exports.Aggregate demand is equivalent to the expenditure equation for GDP in the long-run.The alternative method to calculate GDP is the income approach.


   How the Expenditure Method Works  

Expenditure is a reference to spending. In economics, another term for consumer spending is demand. The total spending, or demand, in the economy is known as aggregate demand. This is why the GDP formula is actually the same as the formula for calculating aggregate demand. Because of this, aggregate demand and expenditure GDP must fall or rise in tandem.



However, this similarity isn't technically always present in the real world—especially when looking at GDP over the long run. Short-run aggregate demand only measures total output for a single nominal price level, or the average of current prices across the entire spectrum of goods and services produced in the economy. Aggregate demand only equals GDP in the long run after adjusting for price level.



The expenditure method is the most widely used approach for estimating GDP, which is a measure of the economy's output produced within a country's borders irrespective of who owns the means to production. The GDP under this method is calculated by summing up all of the expenditures made on final goods and services. There are four main aggregate expenditures that go into calculating GDP: consumption by households, investment by businesses, government spending on goods and services, and net exports, which are equal to exports minus imports of goods and services.



The Formula for Expenditure GDP is:



﻿















G


D


P


=


C


+


I


+


G


+


(


X


−


M


)
















where:
















C


=


Consumer spending on goods and services
















I


=


Investor spending on business capital goods
















G


=


Government spending on public goods and services
















X


=


exports
















M


=


imports








\begin{aligned} &GDP = C + I + G + (X - M)\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &C = \text{Consumer spending on goods and services}\\ &I = \text{Investor spending on business capital goods}\\ &G = \text{Government spending on public goods and services}\\ &X = \text{exports}\\ &M = \text{imports}\\ \end{aligned}


​GDP=C+I+G+(X−M)where:C=Consumer spending on goods and servicesI=Investor spending on business capital goodsG=Government spending on public goods and servicesX=exportsM=imports​﻿


  Main Components of the Expenditure Method  

In the United States, the most dominant component in the calculations of GDP under the expenditure method is consumer spending, which accounts for the majority of U.S. GDP. Consumption is typically broken down into purchases of durable goods (such as cars and computers), nondurable goods (such as clothing and food), and services.



The second component is government spending, which represents expenditures by state, local and federal authorities on defense and nondefense goods and services, such as weaponry, health care, and education.



Business investment is one of the most volatile components that goes into calculating GDP. It includes capital expenditures by firms on assets with useful lives of more than one year each, such as real estate, equipment, production facilities, and plants.



The last component included in the expenditure approach is net exports, which represents the effect of foreign trade of goods and service on the economy.


   Expenditure Method vs. Income Method  

The income approach to measuring gross domestic product is based on the accounting reality that all expenditures in an economy should equal the total income generated by the production of all economic goods and services. It also assumes that there are four major factors of production in an economy and that all revenues must go to one of these four sources. Therefore, by adding all of the sources of income together, a quick estimate can be made of the total productive value of economic activity over a period. Adjustments must then be made for taxes, depreciation, and foreign factor payments.



The major distinction between each approach is its starting point. The expenditure approach begins with the money spent on goods and services. Conversely, the income approach starts with the income earned (wages, rents, interest, profits) from the production of goods and services.


   Limitation of GDP Measurements  

GDP, which can be calculated using numerous methods, including the expenditure approach, is supposed to measure a country's standard of living and economic health. Critics, such as the Nobel Prize-winning economist Joseph Stiglitz, caution that GDP should not be taken as an all-encompassing indicator of a society's well-being, since it ignores important factors that make people happy.



For example, while GDP includes monetary spending by private and government sectors, it does not consider work-life balance or the quality of interpersonal relationships in a given country.
What Is an Expense?  

An expense is the cost of operations that a company incurs to generate revenue. It is simply defined as the cost one is required to spend on obtaining something. As the popular saying goes, “it costs money to make money.”



Common expenses include payments to suppliers, employee wages, factory leases, and equipment depreciation. Businesses are allowed to write off tax-deductible expenses on their income tax returns to lower their taxable income and thus their tax liability; however, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has strict rules on which expenses businesses are allowed to claim as a deduction.





Key Takeaways

An expense is the cost of operations that a company incurs to generate revenue.Businesses can write off tax-deductible expenses on their income tax returns, provided that they meet the IRS’ guidelines.Accountants record expenses through one of two accounting methods: cash basis or accrual basis.There are two main categories of business expenses in accounting: operating expenses and non-operating expenses.The IRS treats capital expenses differently than most other business expenses.












Investopedia / Jake Shi


   Understanding Expenses  

One of the main goals of company management teams is to maximize profits. This is achieved by boosting revenues while keeping expenses in check. Slashing costs can help companies to make even more money from sales.



However, if expenses are cut too much it could also have a detrimental effect. For example, paying less on advertising reduces costs but also lowers the company’s visibility and ability to reach out to potential customers.


   How Expenses Are Recorded  

Companies break down their revenues and expenses in their income statements. Accountants record expenses through one of two accounting methods: cash basis or accrual basis. Under cash basis accounting, expenses are recorded when they are paid. In contrast, under the accrual method, expenses are recorded when they are incurred.



For example, if a business owner schedules a carpet cleaner to clean the carpets in the office, a company using the cash basis records the expense when it pays the invoice. Under the accrual method, the business accountant would record the carpet cleaning expense when the company receives the service. Expenses are generally recorded on an accrual basis, ensuring that they match up with the revenues reported in accounting periods.





Important

Expenses are used to calculate net income. The equation to calculate net income is revenues minus expenses.


   Types of Business Expenses  

There are two main categories of business expenses in accounting: 


  Operating Expenses  

Operating expenses are the expenses related to the company’s main activities, such as the cost of goods sold, administrative fees, office supplies, direct labor, and rent. These are the expenses that are incurred from normal, day-to-day activities.



Operating expense is deducted from revenue to arrive at operating income; the amount of profit a company earns from its direct business activities. Companies need to manage their operating expenses to ensure that they are maximizing profits; this is usually done by keeping expenses at a minimum; however, reducing expenses too much can reduce the company's productivity.


  Non-operating Expenses  

Non-operating expenses are not directly related to the business's core operations. Common examples include interest charges and other costs associated with borrowing money. These are expenses that occur outside of a company's day-to-day activities. These costs may occur from restructuring, reorganizing, interest charges on debt, or on obsolete inventory.



Non-operating expenses are separate from operating expenses from an accounting perspective so as to be able to determine how much a company earns from its core activities.


   Special Considerations  
  Capital Expenses  

Capital expenditures, commonly known as CapEx, are funds used by a company to acquire, upgrade, and maintain physical assets such as property, buildings, an industrial plant, technology, or equipment.



The IRS treats capital expenses differently than most other business expenses. While most costs of doing business can be expensed or written off against business income the year they are incurred, capital expenses must be capitalized or written off slowly over time.



The IRS has a schedule that dictates the portion of a capital asset a business may write off each year until the entire expense is claimed. The number of years over which a business writes off a capital expense varies based on the type of asset.


  Not All Expenses Can Be Deducted  

According to the IRS, to be deductible, a business expense "must be both ordinary and necessary." Ordinary means the expense is common or accepted in that industry, while necessary means the expense is helpful in the pursuit of earning income. Business owners are not allowed to claim their personal, non-business expenses as business deductions. They also cannot claim lobbying expenses, penalties, and fines.



Investors can refer to Publication 535, Business Expenses on the IRS website for more information.




What Are Examples of Expenses?
Examples of expenses include rent, utilities, wages, salaries, maintenance, depreciation, insurance, and the cost of goods sold. Expenses are usually recurring payments needed to operate a business.




What Are the Types of Expenses?
Expenses can be categorized in a variety of ways. Expenses can be defined as fixed expenses, such as rent or mortgage; those that do not change with the change in production. Expenses can also be defined as variable expenses; those that change with the change in production. These include utilities and the cost of goods sold. Expenses can also be categorized as operating and non-operating expenses. The former are the expenses directly related to operating the company, and the latter is indirectly related.




Is Salary Considered an Expense?
Yes, salary is considered an expense and is reported as such on a company's income statement.


   The Bottom Line  

An expense is a cost that businesses incur in running their operations. Expenses include wages, salaries, maintenance, rent, and depreciation. Expenses are deducted from revenue to arrive at profits. Businesses are allowed to deduct certain expenses from taxes to help alleviate the tax burden and bulk up profits.
What Is an Expense Ratio?  

The expense ratio measures how much of a fund's assets are used for administrative and other operating expenses. For investors, the expense ratio is deducted from the fund's gross return and paid to the fund manager.



An expense ratio is determined by dividing a fund's operating expenses by the average dollar value of its assets under management (AUM). Operating expenses reduce the fund's assets, thereby reducing the return to investors.





Key Takeaways

The expense ratio is a measure of mutual fund operating costs relative to assets.Investors pay attention to the expense ratio to determine if a fund is an appropriate investment for them after fees are considered.Expense ratios may be stated as gross expense ratio, net expense ratio, and after-reimbursement expense ratio.Passive index funds will have lower expense ratios than actively-managed funds or those in less liquid asset classes.In general, funds' expense ratios have been declining over the past several years.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   What the Expense Ratio Can Tell You  

Operating expenses vary according to the fund or stock; however, the expenses within the fund remain relatively stable. For example, a fund with low expenses will generally continue to have low expenses. The largest component of operating expenses is the fee paid to a fund's investment manager or advisor.



Other costs include recordkeeping, custodial services, taxes, legal expenses, and accounting and auditing fees. Expenses that are charged by the fund are reflected in the fund's daily net asset value (NAV) and do not appear as a distinct charge to shareholders.


  The Formula for Calculating the Expense Ratio Is:  
















ER


=



Total Fund Costs


Total Fund Assets








\begin{aligned} &\text{ER} = \frac{ \text{Total Fund Costs} }{ \text{Total Fund Assets} } \\ \end{aligned}


​ER=Total Fund AssetsTotal Fund Costs​​





What Is a Good Expense Ratio?

In general, the lower the expense ratio, the better it is for investors. Actively-managed funds will typically come with higher expense ratios, and the amount of expenses will also vary depending on the fund's strategy or asset class focus. Compare expense ratios of similar funds in order to determine what is good.For example, for 2022, the average expense ratio for actively-managed equity funds was 0.68% and index funds just 0.06%.  A mutual fund expense ratio that is at or below its peer average is ideal. 


   Components of an Expense Ratio  

Most expenses within a fund are variable; however, the variable expenses are fixed within the fund. For example, a fee consuming 0.5% of the fund's assets will always consume 0.5% of the assets regardless of how it varies.



In addition to the management fees associated with a fund, some funds have an advertising and promotion expense referred to as a 12b-1 fee, which is included in operating expenses. Notably, 12b-1 fees within a fund cannot exceed 1% (0.75% allocated to distribution and 0.25% allocated to shareholder servicing) according to FINRA rules.



A fund's trading activity—the buying and selling of portfolio securities—is not included in the calculation of the expense ratio. Costs not included in operating expenses are loads, contingent deferred sales charges (CDSC), and redemption fees, which, if applicable, are paid directly by fund investors.






The expense ratio is most often concerned with total net expenses, but sometimes, people want to understand gross expenses versus net.


   Passive Index Funds vs. Actively Managed Funds  

The expense ratio of an index fund and an actively managed fund often differ significantly. Index funds, which are passively managed funds, typically carry very low expense ratios. The managers of these funds are generally replicating a given index. The associated management fees are thus lower due to the lack of active management, as with the funds they mirror.



Actively managed funds employ teams of research analysts examining companies as potential investments. Those additional costs are passed on to shareholders in the form of higher expense ratios.



The Vanguard S&P 500 ETF, an index fund that replicates the Standard & Poor's (S&P) 500 Index, has one of the lowest expense ratios in the industry at 0.03% annually. At this level, investors are charged just $3 per year for every $10,000 invested. The Fidelity Contrafund is one of the largest actively managed funds in the marketplace with an expense ratio of 0.86%, or $86 per $10,000.


   Example of Expense Ratios  

In general, passively managed funds, such as index funds, will have much lower expense ratios than actively managed funds.



Consider two hypothetical mutual funds, the Active Fund (AFX) and the Index Fund (IFX). AFX seeks to beat the market by identifying underpriced stocks based on extensive research and experience. IFX instead seeks to exactly replicate the Dow Jones Industrial Average and holds the 30 stocks in the index at their respective weightings.



The expense ratio for AFX is 1.5%, and the expense ratio for IFX is 0.05%



Last year, AFX had a gross return of 10% while the Dow Jones returned 9%.



But, after accounting for the expense ratios, investors in AFX received a net return of 8.50%, while IFX investors enjoyed a higher net return of 8.95%.


   Expense Ratio vs. Management Fees  

Mutual funds charge management fees to cover their operating costs, such as the cost of hiring and retaining investment advisors who manage funds' investment portfolios and any other management fees payable not included in the other expenses category. Management fees are commonly referred to as maintenance fees.



A mutual fund incurs many operating fees associated with running a fund other than the costs to buy and sell securities and paying the investment team to make the buy/sell decisions. These other operating fees include marketing, legal, auditing, customer service, office supplies, filing costs, and other administrative costs. 



While these fees are not directly involved with making the investment decisions, they are required to ensure the mutual fund is run correctly and within the Securities and Exchange Commission's requirements.



The management fee encompasses all direct expenses incurred in managing the investments such as hiring the portfolio manager and investment team. The cost of hiring managers is the largest component of management fees; it can range between 0.5% and 1% of the fund's assets under management, or AUM.



Even though this percentage seems small, the absolute amount is in millions of U.S. dollars for a mutual fund with $1 billion of AUM. Depending on the reputation of management, highly skilled investment advisors can command fees that push a fund's overall expense ratio quite high.



Notably, the cost of buying or selling any security for the fund is not included in the management fee. Rather, these are transaction costs and are expressed as the trading expense ratio in the prospectus. Together, the operating fees and management fees make up the expense ratio.






In general, exchange traded funds (ETFs) have lower expense ratios than comparable mutual funds.




What Does Expense Ratio Mean?
The expense ratio refers to how much of a fund's assets are used towards administrative and other operating expenses. Because an expense ratio reduces a fund's assets it reduces the returns investors receive.




Why Is Expense Ratio Important?
The expense ratio on a fund or ETF is important because it lets an investor know how much they are paying in costs by investing in a specific fund and by how much their returns will be reduced. The lower the expense ratio the better because it means that an investor is receiving higher returns on their invested capital.




How Is Expense Ratio Calculated?
The expense ratio is calculated by dividing total fund costs by total fund assets.




What Is a Good Expense Ratio for a Mutual Fund?
Mutual funds that invest in large companies should not have an expense ratio above 1% while funds that invest in smaller companies should not have an expense ratio above 1.25%. There are funds with expense ratios higher than this, and they can either be viewed as expensive funds or funds that provide a special service justifying their high cost.


   The Bottom Line  

Expense ratios are taken out of mutual fund and ETF returns to help pay for operations and fund management. The expense ratio charged to investors will vary depending on the fund's investment strategy and level of trading activity. In general, expense ratios have been declining steadily over time as competition for investor dollars has heightened. Actively-managed funds and those in less liquid asset classes will tend to have higher expense ratios, while passively-managed index funds feature the lowest expense ratios.
What Is an Experience Rating?  

An experience rating is the amount of loss that an insured party experiences compared to the amount of loss that similar insured parties have. Experience rating is most commonly associated with workers’ compensation insurance. It is used to calculate the experience modification factor.





Key Takeaways

Insurance experience ratings are losses an insured party has relative to similar insured parties. Experience ratings help determine the likelihood an insured will file a claim. Insurers charge higher premiums to risky policyholders, which also incentivizes the policyholder to improve risk management practices. Experience modifiers are adjustments of annual premiums based on previous loss experience.


   Understanding Experience Ratings  

Insurance companies closely monitor the claims and losses that come from the policies that they underwrite. This evaluation includes determining whether certain classes of policyholders are more prone to claims, and are thus more risky for the company to insure.



The experience rating helps an insurance company determine the likelihood that a particular policyholder will file a claim. In this sense, the past loss experience of a policyholder is used to determine future changes to the premium charged for the policy. In general, it is easier for an insurance company to determine the risk associated with an entire class of policyholders, but harder to determine how risky an individual policyholder is.



For example, an insurance company will look at whether a large-sized construction services company has produced more workers’ compensation claims than similar-sized companies. If the claims occur more often than expected, the insurance company may increase premiums in order to cover the increased expectation of payouts.



By charging higher premiums for more risky policyholders, an insurance company can incentivize its policyholders to improve its risk management practices. For example, a business that is considered high-risk for a workers’ compensation claim will have to pay more than a low-risk policyholder. However, the high-risk policyholder can improve its safety procedures and workplace conditions to lower its premium. Experience rating is typically based on the three years prior to the most recent expired policy period.


   How an Experience Rating Is Used  

An experience modifier is the adjustment of annual premium based on previous loss experience. For instance, three years of loss experience are typically used to determine the experience modifier for a workers' compensation policy. An experience modifier is calculated every year. A modifier may be less than, greater than, or equal to one.



A modifier of one means that your loss experience is average for your industry group. That is, your loss history is no better or worse than other businesses similar to yours. In such a case, your premium will likely remain unchanged. If your modifier is greater than one, your loss experience is worse than average for your industry group. A modifier that is greater than one will increase your premium for the upcoming policy period. Likewise, a modifier of less than one signifies a loss history that is better than average. A modifier of less than one will achieve a premium reduction.
What Is an Expiration Date?  

An expiration date is the last day that a consumable product such as food or medicine will be at its best quality, according to the manufacturer. There are important differences between expiration dates on food and those on medicine:



Expiration dates on food products are not required by federal law, except for infant formula. When they're used, they usually indicate that the food should have its best taste and texture up until that date. It is an assurance of quality, not an assurance of safety.Expiration dates on prescription and over-the-counter drugs are mandated by federal law. The dates indicate the period during which the product is guaranteed to be safe and effective based on the manufacturer's internal testing.





Key Takeaways

Expiration dates on food are not required by federal law except on infant formula.Dates on food indicate how long they will retain their freshness and best quality.Most perishable foods are good well beyond the "sell by" or "use by" date.Prescription and non-description drugs must carry expiration dates by federal law. Prescription drug expiration dates indicate how long the manufacturer can guarantee the product's safety and effectiveness based on its own internal testing.


   Understanding an Expiration Date  

A product may have a "sell by" date, a "use by" date, a "best by" date, or a "do not use after" date stamped on the package or the container. They all have different meanings but only the "do not use after" date is a warning that the product should be discarded at that date because it may be unsafe, ineffective, or both.



The sell-by date is meant to tell store clerks when to remove the product from the store's shelves. The use-by date tells consumers when the product's quality may have deteriorated. The best by date merely suggests that the product's taste or texture may deteriorate after that date.



Federal law does not require food producers to provide any of these dates on food, with the sole exception of infant formula. Nor does the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) provide much guidance on the proper date labeling of food, except for that sole exception of infant formula.



In fact, the USDA notes that about 30% of the American food supply is "lost or wasted," in part because many consumers toss out food that is still wholesome. It suggests that a smell test or a taste test are more accurate indicators of edibility than a label.


  Controversy Over Food Expiration Dates  

Expiration date stamps on food began to emerge in the 1970s when consumer advocates complained about the lack of assurances that packaged foods were still safe and edible at the time they were purchased. More recently, there have been complaints that the date stamps are intentionally inaccurate to persuade buyers to toss out and replace products that are still good to eat.



Many states have adopted their own requirements, so food producers now routinely mark their products regardless of their destinations.



So, expiration dates on food can be ambiguous. But expiration dates on medicine are straightforward.


  Why Using Expired Medications Can Be Risky  

Federal regulations require prescription medicines to be date-stamped.



Over-the-counter medicines like aspirin, cough syrup, and herbal products have an expiration date, often abbreviated EXP followed by a month and year. This indicates the date after which the manufacturer does not guarantee the potency or effectiveness of the product.



In most cases, this indicates the length of time that the manufacturer is certain that the drug is safe and stable, based on its own product testing. That is, the manufacturer does not accept liability for the product beyond that date.



In fact, the manufacturer accepts liability for the product only until the package is opened, not until its contents are used up..


  Expiration Date Mandate  

Food tends to look, smell, or taste bad when it's no longer edible. However, the expiration date is the only indication that a prescription drug is still safe and effective.



In the late 1970s, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) mandated that all prescription and over-the-counter (OTC) medical products be marked with an expiration date. Expiration dates for medicines are often marked EXP and may be printed on the label, stamped onto the packaging, or both.






Even small amounts of certain medications can be fatal to children or pets. They should be disposed of once they pass their expiration dates.



It is especially important to adhere to the expiration dates of pharmaceuticals because their chemical composition can change over time, making them less potent, ineffective, or even harmful.



In some cases, the FDA may extend the expiration date of a drug if there is a shortage of it. The extended expiration date is based on stability data for the medication that has been reviewed by the FDA.


  Discarding Expired Medications  

Dumping expired medications in the trash is not a good idea. There may be disposal instructions on the drug's packaging. You also can check for drug take-back programs in your state or municipality.



In the absence of specific instructions or take-back programs, U.S. federal guidelines recommend disposing of expired or unwanted medicines by putting them in a bag or container and mixing them with coffee grounds or kitty litter. Some medications can be flushed.


   Expiration Dates for Food  

Expiration dates on food are a different story. Food manufacturers date their products to notify store clerks or consumers, or both when the product may no longer be at its best quality. Infant formula is the only food product that must carry a true expiration date under federal law.



Open dating is a calendar date marked on a food product by the manufacturer or retailer. It is intended to indicate the last date at which the product is guaranteed to be at its best in terms of quality.Closed dating is a code, unreadable to most consumers, that consists of letters and/or numbers. Manufacturers apply them to record the date and time that the item was processed.


  The FSIS: Watchdog for Meat, Poultry, and Eggs  

The Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS), an agency of the USDA, is the public health regulatory agency responsible for ensuring that America's supply of meat, poultry, and eggs is safe, wholesome, and correctly labeled and packaged. 



Manufacturers are not required to mark their products with expiration dates, but if they do the labels must be truthful and not misleading. A calendar date must indicate both the month and day of the month. Shelf-stable and frozen products also must display the year. In any case, the date must be explained with a phrase such as "best if used by."



WebMD notes that eggs, for example, are good for three to five weeks after their sell-by date.


  Date-Labeling Phrases for Food Products  

There are no uniform or universally accepted descriptions used on food labels for open dating in the United States. Producers use a variety of phrases on their labels to describe quality dates: 



Best if used by/before: This indicates the date after which the product may no longer retain its best flavor or quality.Sell-by: A sell-by date indicates when the product should be removed from store shelves. It is used primarily on refrigerated products. The product is still good for some time after that date.Use-by: This is the last date on which the product will be at its peak quality. It is not a safety date except when used on infant formula.Freeze-by: This date indicates the last day on which a product should be frozen to maintain its best quality.Expires on/Do not use after: These are the only true expiration dates of the bunch, indicating that the product may be ineffective after that date. In addition to baby formula, products like cake mix and baking powder may carry this warning.


  How Food Manufacturers Decide Quality Dates  

When determining the date by which a product will be of the best quality, producers and retailers consider factors like the length of time and the temperature at which a food is stored while it's in transit and while it's being offered for sale.



Other factors, such as the particular characteristics of the food, and its type of packaging will affect how long a product will be of optimum quality.


  Food Safety Tips  

The date on perishable food is a good indicator of how long it has been sitting around in a warehouse or on the store shelves. It also suggests that the product may (or may not) be at its best after the date on the label.



Nevertheless, these products still have some shelf life left in them if they're stored and handled properly.



A wise consumer will look, smell, taste, or touch food to check whether it shows any signs of spoilage before throwing it out.






The USDA maintains a food storage safety chart listing foods from sauerkraut to egg whites.


   Expiration Dates for Prescription Drug Patents  

For prescription drugs, expiration dates have another unrelated meaning.



The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office awards medical patents to pharmaceutical companies when a new brand-name drug is released to the market. The patent protects the drugmaker from having its drug copied by competitors for a certain time, typically 20 years.



The patent exclusivity for orphan drugs lasts for seven years. A patent for a new chemical lasts for five years.



The Orange Book—a list of drugs that the FDA has approved as both safe and effective—cites the patents for new drugs, along with their expiration dates.



Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, for a generic drug manufacturer to win approval for a drug, the manufacturer must certify that it will not launch its generic product until after the original drug's patent has expired unless the patent is found to be invalid or unenforceable or the generic product will not infringe upon the listed patent.




Is It Okay to Use Some Medicines After Their Expiration Dates?
It is a bad idea to use any medicine after its expiration date. It is no longer guaranteed to be safe or effective, according to the Food & Drug Administration (FDA).For that matter, the FDA warns that medicines should be stored properly to remain good until their expiration dates. If they don't need to be refrigerated, store them in a cool dry place (not the bathroom cabinet).




How Long Can You Eat Food Past Its Expiration Date?
Here's some advice from the U.S. Department of Agriculture:Canned goods will last for years if they're not opened and the can isn't damaged, no matter what the "best by" date is.Packaged foods like cereal and pasta are safe well past any "best by" date, but may eventually acquire a stale or "off" taste.Meat will keep for months in the freezer, but may eventually lose some of its flavor. It will not be unsafe. Bacteria don't grow in freezers.The USDA also has a chart indicating the shelf life of many food products.




Can You Eat Expired Food If It Hasn't Been Opened?
The "use by," "sell by," and "best by" stamps all suggest an end date for the product in its unopened state. Most products are good for some time after the dates marked on the package if the package remains unopened. Whether it's opened or sealed, look at it, sniff it, or taste it before you throw it out.In general, nonperishable foods like canned goods, pasta, and rice have a long shelf life and are good well past any expiration dates marked on them. Meat, dairy, and eggs are perishable, but a sniff test is more reliable than a sell-by date.
What Is Expiration Time?  

The expiration time of an options contract or other derivative is the exact date and time when it is rendered null and void. Derivatives contracts that finish out of the money (OTM) at the time of expiration will become worthless, while in-the-money (ITM) contracts will be evaluated based on the settlement price upon expiry.



The expiration time is more specific than the expiration date and should not be confused with the last time to trade that option.





Key Takeaways

The expiration time is the precise date and time at which derivatives contracts cease to trade and any obligations or rights come due or expire.Typically, the last day to trade an option is the third Friday of the expiration month.Derivative contracts will specify the exact expiration date and time.


   Understanding Expiration Time  

Expiration time differs from the expiration date in that the former is when the option actually expires while the latter is the deadline for the holder of the option to make their intentions known. Most option traders need only be concerned with the expiration date but it is useful to know the expiration time as well.



According to NASDAQ, the expiration time is:



The time of day by which all exercise notices must be received on the expiration date. Technically, the expiration time is currently 11:59 a.m. [Eastern Time] on the expiration date, but public holders of option contracts must indicate their desire to exercise no later than 5:30 p.m. [Eastern Time] on the business day preceding the expiration date.



Since many public holders of options deal with brokers, they face different expiration times. In the U.S., the last day to trade an option is typically the third Friday of the expiration month, while the expiration date is the Saturday immediately afterwards. If Friday is a public holiday, the last trading day with be on Thursday.



A public holder of an option usually must declare their notice to exercise by 5:30 p.m. on Friday. This time frame will allow the broker to notify the exchange of the holders' intent by the actual expiration time on Saturday.






Notification limits depend on the exchange where the product trades. For example, the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE) limits trading on expiring options to 3:00 p.m. Central Time on the last trading day.


   Derivatives Contract Expiration  

An expiration date in derivatives is the last day that an options or futures contract is valid. When investors buy options, the contracts give them the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell the assets at a predetermined price, known as the strike price.



The exercising of the option must be within a given period, which is on or before the expiration date. If an investor chooses not to exercise that right, the option expires and becomes worthless, and the investor loses the money paid to buy it.



The expiration date for listed stock options in the United States is usually the third Friday of the contract month, which is the month when the contract expires. However, when that Friday falls on a holiday, the expiration date is on the Thursday immediately before the third Friday. Once an options or futures contract passes the expiration date, the contract is invalid. The last day to trade equity options is the Friday before expiry.


   Caveats at Expiration  

While the majority of options never reach their expiration dates due to traders offsetting or closing their positions before that time, some options do live on until their actual expiration times. This delay can create interesting dynamics because the last time for trading can be before the expiration time.



This time difference is not a problem when the underlying security also closes for trading at the same time. However, if the underlying security does trade beyond the close of trading for the option, both buyers and sellers might find that the exercise of their contract is automatic if they were ITM. Conversely, they may expect the automatic exercise, but after-hours trading in the underlying asset may push them OTM.



Rules covering these possibilities, especially at what time the final price of the underlying is recorded, can change. So, traders should check with both the exchange where their options trade, as well as the brokerage handling their account.


   Example: SPXW Weekly Options  

SPXW are weekly expiration cycle options on the S&P 500 Index listed by the CBOE. SPXW Weeklys are settled on the last trading day, typically a Friday for SPXW EOW Weeklys.



As with other afternoon-settled index options, the exercise-settlement value is calculated using the last (closing) reported sales price in the primary market of each component stock. On the last trading day, trading in expiring SPXW Weeklys closes at 3:00 p.m. Central Standard Time (CST). All non-expiring SPXW Weeklys, meanwhile, continue to trade until 3:15 p.m. CST.
What Is the Expiration Date of an Option ?  

An option's expiration date is the specific date and time when the option contract becomes invalid or worthless. The expiration date is critical for both the buyer and the seller of the respective option. As it pertains to the buyer, it provides a timeframe for their investment strategy, while for the seller, it marks the date by which they are obligated to fulfill the contract if exercised.





Key Takeaways

Expiration date for derivatives is the final date on which the derivative is valid. After that time, the contract has expired.Depending on the type of derivative, the expiration date can result in different outcomes. Option owners can choose to exercise the option (and realize profits or losses) or let it expire worthless. Futures contract owners can choose to roll over the contract to a future date or close their position and take delivery of the asset or commodity.


   Types of Options Based on Their Expiration Date  

There are different types of options based on their expiration. These include:



European Options: These are options that can only be exercised at the expiration date of the options.American Options: These are options that can be exercised any time prior to the expiration date of the option.LEAPS (Long-term Equity Anticipation Securities): These options have expiration dates that are longer than a year. 


   Expiration Date and Intrinsic Value of an Option  

The expiration date affects the option's price or premium. Generally, options with longer expiration dates are more expensive due to the increased time value, which provides the holder with a longer period to benefit from favorable price movements in the underlying asset.



In the realm of options trading, the value of an option is generally composed of two (2) main components: Intrinsic Value and Time Value.


  Intrinsic Value  

The intrinsic value of an option is the immediate, tangible value of the derivative. It is the difference between the option's strike or exercise price and the current market price of the underlying asset. For a call option, intrinsic value is calculated as the underlying asset's current price less the strike price. In the case of a put option, the intrinsic value is the strike price minus the underlying asset's current price. If the result is negative, the intrinsic value of the option is zero.


  Time Value  

The other component of an option's value is time value. This represents the extra premium that traders and investors are willing to pay for the option based on its potential to make a profit before the option expires. Time value is influenced by factors such as the time remaining until expiration, the volatility of the underlying asset, interest rates, and dividends. Time value accounts for the risk or uncertainty associated with holding the option over time.





Important

The expiration time of an options contract is the date and time when it is rendered null and void. It is more specific than the expiration date and should not be confused with the last time to trade that option.


   Various Lengths of Expiration Dates of an Option  

Options' expiration dates come in various forms: monthly, weekly, daily and via LEAPS. Each type of expiration caters to different trading strategies and risk appetites, making it essential to comprehend their unique characteristics.



LEAPS (Long Term Equity Anticipation Securities): These are designed for long-term investment strategies, with expiration periods that can extend up to two (2) years. LEAPS are available for a wide range of equities and indices and are ideal for investors wanting long-term hedging or speculative opportunities.Monthly Contract Expiration: These are the most traditional and commonly traded options, typically expiring on the third (3rd) Friday of the contract month in the United States. They offer a balanced approach for traders not looking for extremely short-term or long-term commitments.Weekly Contract Expiration: These options are better known as "Weeklys", these options expire at the end of the trading week. They are well-suited for traders looking to capitalize on short-term market movements without the commitment of a monthly contract.Daily Contract Expiration: These options expire at the end of the trading dat they are purchased. These expiration dates are ideal for traders focusing on intraday market events and the options' premiums are highly sensitive to daily market volatility. 


   How Options are Valued at Expiration  

The value of an option at expiration is largely determined by its "moneyness". Options can either be In-the-Money (ITM), At-the-Money (ATM) or Out-of-the-Money (OTM). Additionally, the style of the option, whether it is American or European, also plays a role, especially for ITM options.



ITM options have intrinsic value and are likely to be exercised upon expiration. The specific outcome depends on whether the option is European or American style, and whether the investor is long or short on the option.



ATM options generally expire worthless as they have no intrinsic value. Both the buyer and the seller are freed from any further obligations, and the contract ceases to exist.



Similar to ATM options, OTM options usually expire worthless. The holder loses the premium paid to the seller, and both parties are relieved of any further obligations.



Understanding these expiration outcomes is essential for traders and investors to effectively manage their positions and expectations. Whether if the situation is where the trader or investor is holding an ITM option with intrinsic value or an OTM option that is likely to expire worthless, the knowledge of what to expect can help these market participants make informed decisions as they navigate the complexities of options trading.


   How to Pick the Best Options Expiry Date  

Choosing the best options expiry date is a nuanced decision that depends on various factors such as trading and investment strategy, market conditions and risk tolerance. Selecting the optimal expiry date for an options contract is a critical aspect of options trading that can significantly impact the strategy's success. Some key considerations on picking options expiry date are:



Trading Strategy Alignment: The choice of expiry date should align with the investor's or trader's overall strategy. One instance entails if the entity is attempting to capitalize on short-term earnings announcement, a weekly option would seem suitable. On the other hand, for hedging long-term investments, LEAPS would be more appropriate.
Market Conditions: Understanding the current market landscape can guide expiry date selection. In a volatile market, shorter-term options might offer higher premiums but this would come with increased risk. Conversely, in a stable market, longer-term options could provide lower premiums but with less risk.
Risk Tolerance: Shorter-term options are generally riskier but offer the potential for higher returns. If the trader or investor has a lower risk tolerance, options with longer expiry dates are expected to be preferred as this allows for more time for the market to move in the intended direction of the trader or investor.
Liquidity Considerations: Options with nearer expiry dates usually have higher liquidity, making it easier to enter or exit positions. However, this comes at the cost of higher time decay.
Cost and Premium: Short-term options are generally cheaper but can be subject to rapid time decay, while long-term options are more expensive upfront but offer more time for your strategy to unfold.
Volatility Assessment: Implied volatility can significantly affect an option's price. If it is expected that volatility would increase, an option with a longer expiry would be chosen in order to capitalize on higher future premiums. Conversely, if it is expected that volatility will decrease, a shorter expiry may be more beneficial.
Option Greeks: Understanding the Greeks can provide insights into how an option's price will change over time, helping the trader or investor choose an expiry date that maximize their strategy's potential.



By carefully considering these factors, traders and investors can make a more informed decision about which expiry date best suits their objectives, risk profile and market outlook.


   Expiration Dates and Options Greeks  

Options Greeks or simply "Greeks" serve as invaluable navigational tools. These mathematical variables help traders and investors dissect the multifaceted factors that influence an option's price, especially as it nears its expiration. The Greeks are:



Delta: This measures how much an option's price will change for a $1 move in the underlying asset. Delta is crucial for assessing directional risk.Gamma: This is the rate of change of delta. Gamma is highest for ATM options and is crucial for understanding how Delta will change as the market moves. It's particularly important for traders who are delta-hedging their positions.Theta: This Greek is also known as "time decay" measures how much an option's price will decrease as it approaches its expiration date. Theta is generally negative for long options, meaning the option loses value as time passes, making it a critical factor when choosing an expiry date.Vega: The V in vega represents volatility. Vega measures the sensitivity of an option's price to changes in implied volatility. A high vega indicates that the option's price is like to be more volatility, which can be both an opportunity and a risk.Rho: This measures the sensitivity of an option's price to changes in interest rates. This Greek becomes particularly relevant for long-term options like LEAPS.



Understanding the Greeks allows traders and investors to make more nuanced decisions, from selecting the right expiry date to managing risk and optimizing potential returns.


  Example of Options Greeks  

A hypothetical situation entails where a trader wants to buy a call option on Company XYZ, anticipating that the underlying asset, in this case Company XYZ's stock, will increase in the next month. The current stock price is $50, the option's strike price is $55 and the option will expire in 30 days.



As it relates to the option, the option has a delta of 0.4, suggesting that for every $1 increase in the stock price, the option will increase by $0.40. A delta of 0.4 also implies a 40% chance of the option will expire ITM. The trader uses this to gauge the likelihood of the option expiring ITM.



The option's Gamma is 0.1, indicating how much the delta will change for a $1 change in the stock price. If the stock moves up by $1, the new delta would be 0.5. The trader keeps an eye on Gamma to anticipate changes in delta.



With Theta being -0.05, the option will lose $0.05 in value every day due to time decay. The trader knows that holding the option too long could erode its value, so they may plan to reassess the position within the expiration date of the option.



The option's vega is 0.2, which means for every 1% increase in implied volatility, the option price will increase by $0.20. If the trader expects volatility to increase, this could ass value to the option.



Since interest rates are relatively stable, the trader might not focus on Rho for such a short term option.



Given these Greeks, the trader decides to buy the call option. The trader will monitor delta and gamma closely for price changes as well as on theta to manage time decay. Vega will be watched in case of changes in volatility.



By understanding and applying the Greeks, the trader can make more informed decisions and better manage the risks associated with options trading.


  Expiration Date and its Impact on Greeks  

The expiration date of an option has a significant impact on the Greeks, which in turn affect the option's price behavior.



Delta: As the expiration date nears, the delta of ITM options approaches 1, while OTM options approaches 0. This is because the likelihood of the option expiring ITM or OTM becomes clearer. For options with more time until expiration, the delta tends to be more moderate, reflecting the greater uncertainty about where the stock will end up.Gamma: Gamma increases as the option approaches expiration, particularly for ATM options. This means that delta can change more rapidly, making the option more sensitive to price changes in the underlying asset. Gamma is generally lower for options with more time until expiration, indicating less sensitivity to price changes in the underlying asset. Gamma is generally lower for options with more time until expiration, indicating less sensitivity to price changes in the underlying asset.Theta: The time decay or theta accelerates as the option nears its expiration date, This is especially crucial for option buyers, as the value of the option erodes more quickly. For options with more time until expiration, theta is generally smaller, indicating slower time decay.Vega: Options with less time until expiration are generally less sensitive to changes in volatility, resulting in a lower vega. Options with more time are more sensitive to changes in volatility, leading to a higher vega.Rho: The impact of interest rates is generally less significant for options with shorter expiration dates. As it pertains to long-term options like LEAPS, rho becomes more significant as interest rate changes can have a pronounced effect over a longer period.  


   Expiration Dates and Options Volatility  

An option's expiration date and its volatility are close intertwined, each influencing the other in ways that can significantly impact an option's premium and, by extension, investment and trading strategies.



Short-term options are generally more sensitive to immediate market events, causing higher volatility and consequently, higher premiums. On the other hand long-term options are less sensitive to short-term market fluctuations but more exposed to long-term volatility, affecting its time value.



With regards to implied volatility, options with shorter expiration dates often have higher implied volatility due to the uncertainty of short-term market movements. Long-term options, like LEAPS, may have lower implied volatility but are more sensitive to long-term market uncertainties.



Another key relationship between the expiration date of options and their volatility is the volatility skew. The volatility skew is the difference in implied volatility levels across options with different strike prices but have the same expiration date. The skew can change as the option approaches its expiration, affecting its pricing.



As it pertains to theta and volatility, in a high-volatility environment, the time decay or theta might be offset by the increase in premium due to the higher implied volatility. In a low-volatility setting, the time decay can significantly erode an option's value as it nears expiration.



Another item of note is gamma risk. Short-term options have higher gamma, making them more sensitive to changes in volatility. As the option nears its expiration, gamma risk increases affecting the option's delta and ultimately, its price.



Finally, traders and investors often use options with different expiration dates to strategically hedge against volatility.



Understanding the complex relationship between an option's expiration date and its volatility is crucial for effective risk management and strategy optimization. Whether the trader or investor is looking to capitalize on market volatility or hedge against it, know how these factors interact can provide an edge for them.




Can an Option's Expiration Date be Extended?
In the standardized world of exchange-traded options, the expiration date is a fixed term and cannot be extended. Once an option reaches its expiration date, it either gets exercised if it is ITM or expires worthless if it is ATM or OTM. There are no provisions for extending the expiration date of these types of options.




What is the Time Value of an Option?
The time value of an option is the portion of the option's premium that is attributable to the amount of time remaining until the option expires. It represents the risk premium that the option seller chargers the buyer. The time value decays to zero as the option approaches its expiration date.




How to Access Options Prices and their Expiration Dates?
Options prices and their respective dates can be accessed via brokerage platforms, financial websites, trading software as well as APIs and Data Feeds.




Are There Any Valuation Models for Options?
There are several valuation models used to calculate the theoretical value of an option. These models include the Black-Scholes Model, the Binomial Option Pricing Model, Monte Carlo Simulations and Risk-Neutral Probability. These models help investment professionals make informed decisions.




What is a Calendar Spread?
A calendar spread is an options trading strategy that involves buying and selling options on the same underlying asset with the same strike price but different expiration dates. This strategy is also known as a time spread or horizontal spread. The typical setup involves selling a short-term option (front-month) and buying a longer-term option (next expiry period or further out).


   The Bottom Line  

In options trading, the expiration date is pivotal, influencing both intrinsic and time value, andthereby affecting the option's overall pricing. Options come in various expiration cycles—monthly, weekly, daily, and even as long-term LEAPS—to suit different trading goals and risk tolerances. The fate of an option at expiration is categorized as At-the-Money (ATM), In-the-Money (ITM), orOut-of-the-Money (OTM), each with distinct outcomes ranging from expiring worthless to being exercised.



Additionally, Option Greeks like Delta, Gamma, Theta, and Vega serve as critical risk-assessment tools, providing insights into how an option's price will behave in relation to factors like stock price movements, time decay, and volatility. Understanding these key components is essential for making informed trading decisions.
What Is Explicit Cost?  

Explicit costs are normal business costs that appear in a company’s general ledger and directly affect its profitability. They have clearly defined dollar amounts that flow through to the income statement. Examples of explicit costs include wages, lease payments, utilities, raw materials, and other direct costs.





Key Takeaways


In accounting, explicit costs are normal business expenses that are tangible and easy to track; they appear in the general ledger.
Explicit costs are the only costs used to calculate a profit, as they demonstrably affect a company’s bottom line.
Though the depreciation of an asset cannot be tangibly traced, it is nevertheless an explicit cost, as it is linked to the cost of the underlying company asset.



   Understanding Explicit Costs  

Explicit costs—also known as accounting costs—are easy to identify and link to a company’s business activities to which the expenses are attributed. They are recorded in a company’s general ledger and flow through to the expenses listed on the income statement. The net income (NI) of a business reflects the residual income that remains after all explicit costs have been paid.



Explicit costs are the only accounting costs that are necessary to calculate a profit, as they have a clear impact on a company’s bottom line. The explicit-cost metric is especially helpful for companies’ long-term strategic planning.












Michela Buttignol / Investopedia


   Explicit Costs vs. Implicit Costs  

Explicit costs involve tangible assets and monetary transactions and result in real business opportunities. Explicit costs are easy to identify, record, and audit because of their paper trail. Expenses relating to advertising, supplies, utilities, inventory, and purchased equipment are examples of explicit costs. Although the depreciation of an asset is not an activity that can be tangibly traced, depreciation expense is an explicit cost, because it relates to the cost of the underlying asset owned by the company.



In contrast, implicit costs are not clearly defined, identified, or reported as expenses. They often deal with intangibles and are described as opportunity costs—the value of the best alternative not accepted. An example of an implicit cost is time spent on one activity of a business that could better be spent on a different pursuit. Management will utilize explicit costs when reviewing a business’ operations, including profits, but will calculate implicit costs only for decision making or choosing among a variety of alternatives.






An explicit cost is a defined dollar amount that appears in the general ledger, while an implicit cost is not initially shown or reported as a separate cost.



Companies use both explicit and implicit costs when calculating a company’s economic profit, which is defined as the total return a company receives based on all costs incurred to attain that revenue, as opposed to accounting profit, which is the amount of money left over after costs and expenses are deducted from total revenue. Specifically, economic profit shows whether a company is earning more than the competitive norm. It can be used to determine if a business should enter or exit a market or an industry. In a perfectly competitive market, economic profit is zero.




What Are Explicit Costs?
Explicit costs are tangible expenses that appear in a company’s general ledger and are used to determine profitability. Examples include wages, lease payments, utilities, and raw materials.




What Are Implicit Costs?
Implicit costs are not clearly defined and don’t get reported as expenses. When a company allocates its resources, it forgoes the ability to earn money off the use of those resources elsewhere. It is the cost of the use of an asset.




What Is Accounting Profit?
Accounting profit is the money left over in a business after deducting explicit costs from total revenue.




What Is Economic Profit?
Economic profit measures how a company is faring compared with its competition. It uses both explicit and implicit costs. A company can have a positive accounting profit while maintaining a zero economic profit.


   The Bottom Line  

Explicit costs are the out-of-pocket expenses incurred by a business in the production of goods or services. These costs are easily identifiable and can be directly attributed to a specific activity or business function. By accurately tracking explicit costs, businesses can make informed decisions about pricing, production, and resource allocation. Overall, businesses should carefully monitor their explicit costs to ensure that they are managing their resources effectively and making sound financial decisions.
What Is Exploration & Production (E&P)?  

Exploration & production (E&P) is a specific sector within the oil and gas industry linked to the early stage of energy production, which generally involves searching for and extracting oil and gas. An E&P company finds and extracts the raw materials used in the energy business. Typically they do not refine or produce energy but merely find and extract raw materials to be shipped to other oil companies within the production process.





Key Takeaways

Exploration and production (E&P) is the early stage of energy production, which includes searching for and extracting oil and natural gas.After identifying potentially viable fields, a well is drilled to test the findings by collecting samples.If there are both the quality and quantity needed to produce and sell commercially, the production of oil wells begins.The oil and gas deposits are extracted from the wells, stored temporarily, and eventually shipped via a pipeline to a refinery.


   Understanding Exploration & Production (E&P)  

E&P is known as the upstream segment of the oil and gas industry, which consists of the search, exploration, drilling, and extraction phases. The E&P segment is the earliest portion of the oil and gas production process. Companies within this segment are primarily focused on locating and extracting commodities from the Earth.



The resource owners and operators of E&P work with a variety of contractors, such as engineering procurement and construction (EPC) contractors, joint venture partners, and oil field service companies. In locating and extracting oil and gas, E&P companies also build infrastructure and collect massive amounts of analytical data.


   Exploration & Production (E&P) Phases  

The process of oil and gas exploration and production typically consists of four stages, which are outlined below:


  Search and Exploration  

The search and exploration stage involves the search for hydrocarbons, which are the primary components of petroleum and natural gas. Land surveys are performed to help identify the areas that are the most promising. The goal is to locate specific minerals underground, to estimate the amount of oil and gas reserves before drilling. Geologists study rock formations and layers of sediment within the soil to identify if oil or natural gas is present.



The process can involve seismology, which uses substantial vibrations as a result of machinery or explosives to create seismic waves. How the seismic waves interact with a reservoir containing oil and gas helps to pinpoint the reservoir’s location. Once it has been determined that there appear to be reserves beneath the ground, the test drilling process can begin.


  Well Construction  

After identifying potentially viable fields, a well is drilled to test the findings and determine whether there are enough reserves to be commercially viable for sale. The process involves making a hole by drilling or grinding through the rock beneath the surface. A steel pipe is inserted into the hole so that the drill can be inserted into the pipe, allowing for exploration at a deeper level.



Core samples are taken and studied by geologists, engineers, and paleontologists to determine if there is the proper quality of natural gas or petroleum in the underground reserve. If the process shows that there are both the quality and quantity needed to produce and sell commercially, the production of oil wells begins.



Engineers will typically estimate how many wells will be needed and the best method of extraction. The estimated cost of the number of wells is determined. Next, the construction of the platform begins, which could be on land or offshore. The necessary environmental protections are also implemented at this stage.






There have been significant advances in drilling technologies over the years. Companies can drill horizontally, tapping into vertical wells to search for natural gas pockets, which can produce far more natural gas than a typical vertical well.


  Extraction  

The oil and gas deposits are extracted from the wells. Sometimes, natural gas can be processed at the same site as the well. However, petroleum is usually extracted on-site, stored temporarily, and eventually shipped via a pipeline to a refinery.


  Abandonment of Wells  

Once a site is no longer productive, meaning all reserves have been extracted and all opportunities have been exhausted, the wells are plugged or sealed. Attempts are made to restore the area in an effort to help the environment. 


   The Midstream and Downstream Phases  

Once the crude oil and natural gas reserves have been extracted, the midstream oil and gas production process begins. Midstream companies focus on the storage and transportation of oil and natural gas through pipelines. They deliver the reserves to companies involved in the final stage of production, called downstream.



The downstream process involves refineries that process the oil into usable products, such as gasoline. Once finished products are created from the crude oil and natural gas, they are sent to distributors and retail outlets, such as energy providers and gas stations.




What Does E&P Stand for in Oil and Gas?
E&P is short for exploration and production, which is the early stage of energy production that consists of looking for oil and gas and then extracting it.




What Is the Difference Between Exploration and Production?
Exploration is the process of examining places where abundant oil and natural gas resources potentially exist under the Earth’s surface. Once these places have been identified, production commences to collect and extract.




What Are the 3 Stages of Oil and Gas?
The oil and gas industry is generally broken down into three segments: upstream, midstream, and downstream. The first phase is upstream, which is when companies initially explore and then start drilling and extracting oil and natural gas. It is then followed by midstream, which refers to the transportation of crude or refined petroleum products, and finally downstream, which is the final stage and consists of processing the oil into usable products and marketing them.




Is Exploration and Production (E&P) Upstream?
Yes, exploration and production (E&P) is considered part of the upstream phase, which is the initial part of the oil and gas process that consists of exploration, drilling, and extraction.


   The Bottom Line  

Finding and extracting oil and natural gas from the Earth’s surface is a deeply controversial and complex process that requires lots of money, patience, and hard work. It’s necessary, though—without these resources, which are used to power vehicles, heat buildings, produce electricity, and even to make products such as deodorant, MRI machines, and pacemakers, the economy and life as we know it would grind to a standstill.
What Is Exponential Growth?  

Exponential growth is a pattern of data that shows greater increases with passing time, creating the curve of an exponential function.



For example, suppose a population of mice rises exponentially by a factor of two every year starting with 2 in the first year, then 4 in the second year, 8 in the third year, 16 in the fourth year, and so on. The population is growing by a factor of 2 each year in this case. If mice instead give birth to four pups, you would have 4, then 16, then 64, then 256.



Exponential growth (which is multiplicative) can be contrasted with linear growth (which is additive) and with geometric growth (which is raised to a power).





Key Takeaways:

Exponential growth is a pattern of data that shows sharper increases over time.In finance, compounding creates exponential returns.Savings accounts with a compounding interest rate can show exponential growth.


   Understanding Exponential Growth  

In finance, compound returns cause exponential growth. The power of compounding is one of the most powerful forces in finance. This concept allows investors to create large sums with little initial capital. Savings accounts that carry a compound interest rate are common examples of exponential growth.


  Applications of Exponential Growth  

Assume you deposit $1,000 in an account that earns a guaranteed 10% rate of interest. If the account carries a simple interest rate, you will earn $100 per year. The amount of interest paid will not change as long as no additional deposits are made.



If the account carries a compound interest rate, however, you will earn interest on the cumulative account total. Each year, the lender will apply the interest rate to the sum of the initial deposit, along with any interest previously paid. In the first year, the interest earned is still 10% or $100. In the second year, however, the 10% rate is applied to the new total of $1,100, yielding $110. With each subsequent year, the amount of interest paid grows, creating rapidly accelerating, or exponential, growth. After 30 years, with no other deposits required, your account would be worth $17,449.40.


  The Formula for Exponential Growth  

On a chart, this curve starts slowly, remains nearly flat for a time before increasing swiftly to appear almost vertical. It follows the formula:








V


=


S


×


(


1


+


R



)


T




V=S\times(1+R)^T


V=S×(1+R)T



The current value, V, of an initial starting point subject to exponential growth, can be determined by multiplying the starting value, S, by the sum of one plus the rate of interest, R, raised to the power of T, or the number of periods that have elapsed.


   Special Considerations  

While exponential growth is often used in financial modeling, the reality is often more complicated. The application of exponential growth works well in the example of a savings account because the rate of interest is guaranteed and does not change over time. In most investments, this is not the case. For instance, stock market returns do not smoothly follow long-term averages each year.



Other methods of predicting long-term returns—such as the Monte Carlo simulation, which uses probability distributions to determine the likelihood of different potential outcomes—have seen increasing popularity. Exponential growth models are more useful to predict investment returns when the rate of growth is steady.
What Is an Exponential Moving Average (EMA)?  

An exponential moving average (EMA) is a type of moving average (MA) that places a greater weight and significance on the most recent data points. The exponential moving average is also referred to as the exponentially weighted moving average. An exponentially weighted moving average reacts more significantly to recent price changes than a simple moving average simple moving average (SMA), which applies an equal weight to all observations in the period.





Key Takeaways

The EMA is a moving average that places a greater weight and significance on the most recent data points.Like all moving averages, this technical indicator is used to produce buy and sell signals based on crossovers and divergences from the historical average.Traders often use several different EMA lengths, such as 10-day, 50-day, and 200-day moving averages.












Investopedia / Daniel Fishel


   Formula for Exponential Moving Average (EMA)  

﻿




















E


M



A


Today



=










(



Value


Today



∗



(




Smoothing




1


+


Days




)



)






















where:








\begin{aligned} &\begin{aligned} EMA_{\text{Today}}=&\left(\text{Value}_{\text{Today}}\ast\left(\frac{\text{Smoothing}}{1+\text{Days}}\right)\right)\\ &+EMA_{\text{Yesterday}}\ast\left(1-\left(\frac{\text{Smoothing}}{1+\text{Days}}\right)\right)\end{aligned}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &EMA=\text{Exponential moving average} \end{aligned}


​EMAToday​=​(ValueToday​∗(1+DaysSmoothing​))​where:​﻿



While there are many possible choices for the smoothing factor, the most common choice is:



Smoothing = 2



That gives the most recent observation more weight. If the smoothing factor is increased, more recent observations have more influence on the EMA.






   Calculating the EMA  

Calculating the EMA requires one more observation than the SMA. Suppose that you want to use 20 days as the number of observations for the EMA. Then, you must wait until the 20th day to obtain the SMA. On the 21st day, you can then use the SMA from the previous day as the first EMA for yesterday.















TradingView.



The calculation for the SMA is straightforward. It is simply the sum of the stock's closing prices during a time period, divided by the number of observations for that period. For example, a 20-day SMA is just the sum of the closing prices for the past 20 trading days, divided by 20.



Next, you must calculate the multiplier for smoothing (weighting) the EMA, which typically follows the formula: [2 ÷ (number of observations + 1)]. For a 20-day moving average, the multiplier would be [2/(20+1)]= 0.0952.



Finally, the following formula is used to calculate the current EMA:



EMA = Closing price x multiplier + EMA (previous day) x (1-multiplier)



The EMA gives a higher weight to recent prices, while the SMA assigns equal weight to all values. The weighting given to the most recent price is greater for a shorter-period EMA than for a longer-period EMA. For example, an 18.18% multiplier is applied to the most recent price data for a 10-period EMA, while the weight is only 9.52% for a 20-period EMA.



There are also slight variations of the EMA arrived at by using the open, high, low, or median price instead of using the closing price.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   What Does the EMA Tell You?  

The 12- and 26-day exponential moving averages (EMAs) are often the most quoted and analyzed short-term averages. The 12- and 26-day are used to create indicators like the moving average convergence divergence (MACD) and the percentage price oscillator (PPO). In general, the 50- and 200-day EMAs are used as indicators for long-term trends. When a stock price crosses its 200-day moving average, it is a technical signal that a reversal has occurred.



Traders who employ technical analysis find moving averages very useful and insightful when applied correctly. However, they also realize that these signals can create havoc when used improperly or misinterpreted. All the moving averages commonly used in technical analysis are lagging indicators.



Consequently, the conclusions drawn from applying a moving average to a particular market chart should be to confirm a market move or indicate its strength. The optimal time to enter the market often passes before a moving average shows that the trend has changed.



An EMA does serve to alleviate the negative impact of lags to some extent. Because the EMA calculation places more weight on the latest data, it “hugs” the price action a bit more tightly and reacts more quickly. This is desirable when an EMA is used to derive a trading entry signal.



Like all moving average indicators, EMAs are much better suited for trending markets. When the market is in a strong and sustained uptrend, the EMA indicator line will also show an uptrend and vice-versa for a downtrend. A vigilant trader will pay attention to both the direction of the EMA line and the relation of the rate of change from one bar to the next. For example, suppose the price action of a strong uptrend begins to flatten and reverse. From an opportunity cost point of view, it might be time to switch to a more bullish investment.


   Examples of How to Use the EMA  

EMAs are commonly used in conjunction with other indicators to confirm significant market moves and to gauge their validity. For traders who trade intraday and fast-moving markets, the EMA is more applicable. Quite often, traders use EMAs to determine a trading bias. If an EMA on a daily chart shows a strong upward trend, an intraday trader’s strategy may be to trade only on the long side.


   The Difference Between EMA and SMA  

The major difference between an EMA and an SMA is the sensitivity each one shows to changes in the data used in its calculation.



More specifically, the EMA gives higher weights to recent prices, while the SMA assigns equal weights to all values. The two averages are similar because they are interpreted in the same manner and are both commonly used by technical traders to smooth out price fluctuations.



Since EMAs place a higher weighting on recent data than on older data, they are more responsive to the latest price changes than SMAs. That makes the results from EMAs more timely and explains why they are preferred by many traders.


   Limitations of the EMA  

It is unclear whether or not more emphasis should be placed on the most recent days in the time period. Many traders believe that new data better reflects the current trend of the security. At the same time, others feel that overweighting recent dates creates a bias that leads to more false alarms.



Similarly, the EMA relies wholly on historical data. Many economists believe that markets are efficient, which means that current market prices already reflect all available information. If markets are indeed efficient, using historical data should tell us nothing about the future direction of asset prices.




What Is a Good Exponential Moving Average?
The longer-day EMAs (i.e. 50 and 200-day) tend to be used more by long-term investors, while short-term investors tend to use 8- and 20-day EMAs. 




Is Exponential Moving Average Better Than Simple Moving Average?
The EMA focused more on recent price moves, which means it tends to respond more quickly to price changes than the SMA. 




How Do You Read Exponential Moving Averages?
Investors tend to interpret a rising EMA as a support to price action and a falling EMA as a resistance. With that interpretation, investors look to buy when the price is near the rising EMA and sell when the price is near the falling EMA.
What Is an Export Credit Agency (ECA)?  

An export credit agency offers trade finance and other services to facilitate domestic companies' international exports. Most countries have ECAs that provide loans, loan guarantees and insurance to help eliminate the uncertainty of exporting to other countries.



The purpose of ECAs is to support the domestic economy and employment by helping companies find overseas markets for their products. ECAs can be government agencies, quasi-governmental agencies or even private organizations—including the arms of commercial financial institutions.


   Understanding Export Credit Agencies  

ECAs were previously a lender of last resort, stepping in only when private-sector financing was unavailable. But ECAs have taken on a greater role since the global financial crisis, providing the necessary support as increasingly risk-wary private lenders pulled back from export finance. Now there are scores of national ECAs worldwide, collectively providing hundreds of billions of dollars a year toward companies’ efforts to sell goods and services abroad.





Key Takeaways

Export credit agencies offer loans, loan guarantees and insurance to help domestic companies limit the risk of selling goods and services in overseas markets.ECAs can be government agencies or private lenders, or semi-government bodies.After commercial banks retreated following the global financial crisis, ECAs became leading players in international project financing and exports.



ECAs are increasingly critical to national industrial strategies. They can arrange government-backed loans, guarantees and insurance in some of the world's riskiest and most volatile markets. In many cases, development projects such as major infrastructure might never get built without their support.


   ECA Offerings and Impact  

ECAs charge premiums when they offer financial services. Interest from clients is sometimes an alternative to the premium, or the ECA might charge it in conjunction with the premium. Most ECAs offer insurance, as well as other services, for both medium terms—anywhere from two to five years—and long terms, which are five to 10 years.



The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) has argued that ECAs operating in the public sector have a relatively small contribution to underwriting aggregate financing in trade around the world. However, the organization has conceded that ECA support of international trade is an increasingly important factor in individual transactions and for projects being undertaken in developing countries. The availability of the funding that ECAs provide is vital for project completion and the full realization of the resulting exports in these countries.



The OECD offers a list of official ECAs around the world.



ECAs play a major role in world trade. The export credit guarantees they offer lower the risk of private lending. ECAs are therefore becoming leading players in international project financing and exports. ECAs such as Ex-Im Bank help fill the funding gap that private-sector lenders create with their inability or unwillingness to provide financing. They help all products and services compete on a global scale.


   The Export-Import Bank of the United States  

The official ECA in the U.S. is the Export-Import Bank of the United States (EXIM, an independent executive-branch agency. According to EXIM, one of its primary roles is "leveling the playing field" when U.S. exporters "face foreign competition backed by other governments." To do so, it will "match or counter the financing offered by approximately 85 ECAs around the world."
What Is an Export Trading Company?  

An export trading company is an independent company that provides support services for firms engaged in exporting. This may include warehousing, shipping, insuring, and billing on behalf of the client.



Additionally, export trading companies may help manufacturers find overseas buyers and provide them with other pertinent market information. A group of producers can also form their own ETC.





Key Takeaways

An export trading company (ETC) handles the exportation process for clients, navigating all legal requirements and regulations that a company must follow before a country will allow its goods to be exported.Also called export management companies, ETCs can be either local or based in a foreign country, such as the country that imports the goods that the company is trying to properly export.An ETC can provide a firm with local knowledge about the laws and regulations in a foreign country, reduce training and recruitment costs, and help strategize ways to minimize exchange rate risk.


   Understanding Export Trading Companies (ETC)  

The Export Company Trading Act of 1982 allows commercial banks to operate in the export trading company arena and own ETCs. Investors can learn more about ETCs through the U.S. Department of Commerce's International Trade Administration.



Export trading companies are not as prominent as they once were due to Chinese conglomerate e-commerce companies, such as Alibaba that allow business owners to dropship products directly from their supplier to the customer.






An export trading company can function like the export trading division of a company that doesn't have such a division, helping the firm fulfill any legal obligations in order to clear the way for exporting its goods.


   Reasons to Use an Export Trading Company  
  Local Knowledge  

An ETC provides valuable information about the local laws and regulations in a foreign country. For example, an ETC may inform a company about a country’s local taxation and copyright laws. ETCs also have contacts in international markets, such as relationships with manufacturers and distributors. If a company is trying to enter a new overseas market, an ETC can facilitate communication between the parties.


  Reduces Training and Recruitment Costs  

Although ETCs charge a fee for their service, it is often cheaper than training or recruiting staff in a foreign market. ETCs allow a company to hit the ground running and talk to individuals that already have the expertise to answer complex questions.


  Currency Exchange  

ETCs also advise about currency hedging strategies to help minimize exchange rate risk. For instance, an ETC may recommend that a company that earns a significant amount of its revenue in Europe should use currency forwards and lock in an exchange rate for the purchase or sale of euros on a future date.






Export trading companies charge the companies that hire them either a fee or a commission for the services that they provide.


   Limitations of Using an Export Trading Company  
  Loss of Control  

A company may lose control of its operations if an ETC handles critical functions, such as logistics, billing, and communicating with foreign suppliers and manufacturers. If key personnel at the ETC resign or the ETC goes into receivership, the company that has hired their services may be unaware of the procedures and processes in place.



If an ETC handles the marketing functions of a company operating in a foreign market, the brand that the company is trying to convey may get distorted. For example, if an ETC runs low-quality print advertisements, customers may associate the company’s brand with cheap products.
What Is an Export?  

Exports are goods and services that are produced in one country and sold to buyers in another. Exports, along with imports, make up international trade. Instead of confining itself within its geographical borders, countries often intentionally seek external markets around the world for commerce, allowing greater revenue and transactional opportunities.





Key Takeaways

Export refers to a product or service produced in one country but sold to a buyer abroad.Exports are one of the oldest forms of economic transfer and occur on a large scale between nations.Exporting can increase sales and profits if they reach new markets, and they may even present an opportunity to capture significant global market share.Companies that export heavily are typically exposed to a higher degree of financial risk.In 2021, the world exported nearly $28 trillion of goods and services, led by China ($3.5 trillion of exports).


   Understanding Exports  

Exports are incredibly important to modern economies because they offer people and firms many more markets for their goods. One of the core functions of diplomacy and foreign policy between governments is to foster economic trade, encouraging exports and imports for the benefit of all trading parties.



Export agreements are often heavily strategic, with countries exchanging agreements to ensure their own country can not only receive the goods they need via export but can distribute goods for more domestic revenue via imports. Also, consider how governments may use exports as leverage over political situations. In response to the war in Ukraine, the White House issued an executive order prohibiting both the importation and exportation of certain goods from Russia.



Companies often measure their net exports which is their total exports minus their total imports. Net exports is a component of measuring a country's gross domestic product (GDP), so exports play a factor in determining a country's financial and economic well-being.



Good may be sent via direct exporting or indirect exporting. Direct exporting entails working directly with the importer. The exporting company will handle all of the client communication; as a result, they do not pay a middleman fee. Because the direct export method may require teams with specialized knowledge, many companies opt to contract out a middle party to facilitate an indirect export.






In 2021, the world exported almost $28 trillion worth of goods. $3.5 trillion of this activity came from China, the world's largest exporter.


   The Export Process  

In many cases, a country will partner with another country to understand the demand needs for certain products. Instead of blindly manufacturing goods and hoping for an international buyer, the export process often starts with the manufacturing country receiving an order. The exporting country must often receive proper clearance from their home country to export goods; this is often done by obtaining an export license or meeting other country-specific requirements.



The export process usually entails settling several financial matters upfront. First, the exporter may seek out a letter of credit from the importer if applicable. This ensures the exporter can have greater faith in the transaction and will receive compensation for the goods once exported. The exporter and importer also fix the exchange rate at which the exported goods will be exchanged at from the foreign currency to the home currency. At this point, an invoice is most often issued and paid for, finalizing the sale.



As the order is prepared, formal documents are gathered including a permit issued by the customers department, financial document such as a bill of lading and shipping documents are prepared, and and shipment advance information. These documents are remit to the seller; of primary importance is the shipment advance which notifies the importer how goods will be transmitted.


   Trade Barriers and Other Limitations  

A trade barrier is any government law, regulation, policy, or practice that is designed to protect domestic products from foreign competition or artificially stimulate exports of particular domestic products. The most common foreign trade barriers are government-imposed measures and policies that restrict, prevent, or impede the international exchange of goods and services.



Companies that export are presented with a unique set of challenges. Extra costs are likely to be realized because companies must allocate considerable resources to researching foreign markets and modifying products to meet local demand and regulations.






Exports facilitate international trade and stimulate domestic economic activity by creating employment, production, and revenues.



Companies that export are typically exposed to a higher degree of financial risk. Payment collection methods, such as open accounts, letters of credit, prepayment and consignment, are inherently more complex and take longer to process than payments from domestic customers.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Exports  
  Pros of Exports  

Companies export products and services for a variety of reasons. Exports can increase sales and profits if the goods create new markets or expand existing ones, and they may even present an opportunity to capture significant global market share. Companies that export spread business risk by diversifying into multiple markets.



Exporting into foreign markets can often reduce per-unit costs by expanding operations to meet increased demand. Finally, companies that export into foreign markets gain new knowledge and experience that may allow the discovery of new technologies, marketing practices and insights into foreign competitors.


  Cons of Exports  

To export goods, countries may need to incur high transportation costs and the risk of loss due to the transportation of goods. If ownership of the goods does not pass to the buyer until goods are received, this may make the exportation unduly risky for the exporter.



Because of logistic and economic constraints, small and medium-sized businesses or governments may find difficulty in exporting goods. In addition, smaller companies often do not have the in-house personnel needed to potentially navigate international trade regulation. Exporting of goods is much more common for larger bodies with greater resources to seek out these outside markets.



Last, exporting to foreign countries may result in currency risk. Depending on exchange rate agreements at the time of contract, a foreign currency's worth may deteriorate, negatively affecting an exporter. Consider when one currency strengthens against another; if the exporter is to be paid in the currency whose value has depreciated, their export may be devalued. This devaluation may also occur based on extenuating tariffs or lower export prices.




Exporting

Pros

Often allows for greater economic activity leading to higher revenue
May result in production efficiencies due to scaling manufacturing
May result in greater innovation and R&D through working with foreign partners
May reduce operational risk in some areas as revenue streams become more diversified



Cons

May result in high transportation charges
May not be achievable by smaller entities due to lack of knowledge and resources
May result in currency exchange risk due to devaluating currencies
May increase operational risk in some areas due to unknown political or geographical risks





   Real-World Example of Exports  

Every year, the United States is usually one of the top exporters of automotive vehicles. As domestic companies manufacturer cars, trucks, and other vehicles, these are shipped around the world and used by non-U.S. entities.



In 2020, the Observatory of Economic Complexity reported that the United States was the world's third largest exporter of cars, distributing $47.6 billion of vehicles around the world. The United States distributed over $10 billion worth of vehicles to Canada, with other top being countries receiving U.S.-made vehicles being Germany, China, Belgium, and South Korea.



Alternatively, the United States was also the top importer of vehicles in 2020. It imported $144 billion of cars, most of which came from Japan, Canada, and Mexico.



Of the U.S. manufacturers that distribute goods around the world. BMW Manufacturing led domestic companies by the value of cars exported. In 2021, BMW exported nearly 260,000 vehicles to roughly 120 countries, an export total of more than $10 billion. 2021 was the eighth consecutive year that BMW Manufacturing led automotive exports by value, and more than 24% of the company's exports were delivered to China.




What Is Export Policy?
Export policy is the government legislation that dictates how, what, when, and with whom a country exports goods. Export policy defines the tariffs, customs requirements, and limitations on international trade for each country.




Is It Better to Export Goods Than Import Goods?
For each country, this answer will be different. In many cases, it is best to import some goods and export others. Each country is often more proficient in manufacturing certain goods based on their climate, citizen skillset, or access to raw materials. Therefore, it's arguably best for a company to manufacturer and export what it is more efficient at doing so and revert to importing other goods where it may be economically challenging to produce on its own. A great example is produce where certain countries simply have better arable lands and climate conditions to grow certain goods over others.




What Are the Largest U.S. Exports?
The United States largest exports include mineral fuels, machinery, vehicles, medical apparatus, and aircraft.




Who Is The World's Largest Exporter?
Based on most recent export information available for 2020 and 2021, China is the world's largest exporter, followed by the United States, Germany, France, and the United Kingdom.


   The Bottom Line  

An export is a good that is produced domestically but sold to a consumer overseas. Due to resource constraints, economic policy, and manufacturing strategies of each country, it sometimes makes more sense for countries to make goods to sell for revenue as opposed to retain for consumption.
Exposure at default (EAD) is the total value a bank is exposed to when a loan defaults. Using the internal ratings-based (IRB) approach, financial institutions calculate their risk. Banks often use internal risk management default models to estimate respective EAD systems. Outside of the banking industry, EAD is known as credit exposure.





Key Takeaways

Exposure at default (EAD) is the predicted amount of loss a bank may be exposed to when a debtor defaults on a loan.EAD is dynamic; as a borrower's risk and debt profile change, lenders often reassess exposure risk.Exposure at default, loss given default, and the probability of default is used to calculate the total credit risk capital of financial institutions.EAD is important in assessing financial risk, preserving financial stability, and avoiding cascading defaults due to overexposed lending positions.As a result of the 2008 Global Financial Crisis, legislation and government policies attempt to monitor and oversee the banking industry's ability to manage stress.


   Understanding Exposure at Default  

EAD is the predicted amount of loss a bank may be exposed to when a debtor defaults on a loan. Banks often calculate an EAD value for each loan and then use these figures to determine their overall default risk. EAD is a dynamic number that changes as a borrower repays a lender.



There are two methods to determine exposure at default. Regulators use the first approach, which is called foundation internal ratings-based (F-IRB). This approach to determining exposure at risk includes forward valuations and commitment detail, though it omits the value of any guarantees, collateral, or security.



The second method, called advanced internal ratings-based (A-IRB), is more flexible and is used by banking institutions. Banks must disclose their risk exposure. A bank will base this figure on data and internal analysis, such as borrower characteristics and product type. EAD, along with loss given default (LGD) and the probability of default (PD), are used to calculate the credit risk capital of financial institutions.






Banks often calculate an EAD value for each loan and then use these figures to determine their overall default risk.


   Special Considerations  
  The Probability of Default and Loss Given Default  

PD analysis is a method used by larger institutions to calculate their expected loss. A PD is assigned to each risk measure and represents as a percentage the likelihood of default. A PD is typically measured by assessing past-due loans. It is calculated by running a migration analysis of similarly rated loans. The calculation is for a specific time frame and measures the percentage of loans that default. The PD is then assigned to the risk level, and each risk level has one PD percentage.



LGD, unique to the banking industry or segment, measures the expected loss and is shown as a percentage. LGD represents the amount unrecovered by the lender after selling the underlying asset if a borrower defaults on a loan. An accurate LGD variable may be difficult to determine if portfolio losses differ from what was expected. An inaccurate LGD may also be due to the segment being statistically small. Industry LGDs are typically available from third-party lenders.



Also, PD and LGD numbers are usually valid throughout an economic cycle. However, lenders will re-evaluate with changes to the market or portfolio composition. Changes that may trigger reevaluation include economic recovery, recession, and mergers.



A bank may calculate its expected loss by multiplying the variable, EAD, with the PD and the LGD:



EAD x PD x LGD = Expected Loss


   Exposure at Risk Example  

Modern economies have become increasingly intertwined. What happens in one country is more likely to financially impact others, especially when a wide-scale calamity is experienced.



Consider the impact of Lehman Brothers' bankruptcy filing in 2008. As a result of subprime mortgage loans that heightened the company's exposure at default, Lehman Brothers' credit rating was downgraded, forcing the Federal Reserve to summon several banks to negotiate the financing for its reorganization. Congress also passed a $700 billion rescue bill in response to the widespread financial risk the collapse of the firm could have.



In response to the credit crisis of 2007–2008, the banking sector adopted international regulations to lessen its exposure to default. The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision's goal is to improve the banking sector's ability to deal with financial stress. Through improving risk management and bank transparency, the international accord hopes to avoid a domino effect of failing financial institutions.




What Is Exposure at Default?
Exposure at default is the predicted amount of loss a lender may incur if a debtor defaults on their loan. It is the realized value of what the bank may lose if one of its borrowers is unable to satisfy their debt obligation.




How Do You Calculate Exposure at Default?
There are two main approaches to calculating exposure at default: the foundation approach and the advanced approach.The foundation approach is guided by regulators and is calculated by considering the asset, forward valuation, and commitments details. The foundation approach does not consider the value of any guarantees, collateral, or security.The advanced approach lets banks determine how EAD is calculated based on each individual exposure. These types of calculations may vary across loan types or borrower characteristics, as the lender is able to assess value as it sees fit.




What Does Exposure on a Loan Mean?
Exposure is the maximum potential loss a lender may incur if the borrower defaults. It's a risk measurement technique to assess the position of the lender, the characteristics of the borrower, and the possibility of loss. Exposure is a natural part of lending; in return for being exposed to risk, lenders charge interest to be compensated for their willingness to take on risk.




How Can I Reduce My Credit Exposure?
If you're a lender and want to reduce your credit exposure, consider the types of loans you're offering and who you are loaning to. Riskier, longer-term loans will increase your credit exposure as there is often a greater chance of default.To minimize your exposure at default, consider shorter-term loans, loans substantiated by operating cash flow, loans to higher creditworthy customers, and conduct more thorough due diligence prior to issuing a loan.


   The Bottom Line  

Lending is an inherently risky undertaking. Banking institutions use metrics like EAD to make wise choices about who they lend to since they ultimately must answer to their investors. Credit exposure is an issue in most industries, and EAD is one of the banking world's primary tools to combat loan loss.
What Is an Express Warranty?  

An express warranty is an agreement by a seller to provide repairs or a replacement for a faulty product, component, or service within a specified time period after it was purchased. Buyers rely on these promises or guarantees and sometimes purchase items because of them.





Key Takeaways

An express warranty is an agreement by a seller to provide repairs or a replacement for a faulty product, component, or service within a specified time period.Under the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act, a company that provides a written express warranty must adhere to federal guidelines.Details about a product or service that are outlined in an advertisement can set the precedent for an express warranty.In the absence of communicated guarantees, an implied warranty may come into force.


   How an Express Warranty Works  

A warranty is an assurance that an item will live up to the promises of the seller. Under the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act, passed by Congress in 1975, a company that provides a written express warranty is subject to federal guidelines and must comply with the Act. The Act provides consumer protections in the case that a company does not adhere to its written warranty.



An express warranty can be worded in many different ways. It may say something like: "We guarantee all furniture against defects in construction for one year. When a structural defect is brought to our attention, we will repair or replace it."



Most express warranties come from the manufacturer or are included in the seller’s contract. They can also be created by a simple statement on an advertisement or a sign in a store.


   Special Considerations  

Details about a product or service that are outlined in an advertisement can set the precedent for an express warranty. Claims made in advertisements about the quality, functionality, lifespan, and efficacy of a product can constitute an express warranty.



If the product does not meet the standards set forth in the advertising or suffers a breakdown within a set timeframe, the customer may be entitled to free repair service or, when possible, a full replacement.



Not every claim a seller makes is enshrined in warranty law, though. Exaggerated statements that sometimes appear in advertising do not necessarily constitute express warranties.



For example, if an automaker makes a claim that its car is “the best in the world” and the purchaser, after several road trips, disagrees with this statement, they are not necessarily eligible for a refund, unless specifically stated.


   Express Warranty Examples  
  E-Commerce  

E-commerce companies typically include express warranties on the goods they sell in part because of the nature of how online shopping is conducted. The customer cannot try on or physically examine merchandise they are about to purchase.



How the product functions and looks when it is received can dramatically differ from what the customer envisioned while browsing online. The inclusion of an express warranty gives them some sense of surety that issues with the purchase will be rectified in some manner.



For example, if a consumer buys a business jacket online, but when it arrives the item is the wrong size, wrong color, or is missing buttons, an express warranty might entitle the consumer to a refund or replacement. In such cases, the online seller is usually responsible for footing the bill for any additional shipping charges.


  Auto Sales  

Auto dealers tend to advertise express warranty terms for repairs on the vehicles they sell. This can include stipulations on mileage and length of ownership that limit the extent of that coverage. After the vehicle is owned for a certain amount of time or driven beyond the mileage limit, the express warranty would no longer be applicable.


   Express Warranty vs. Implied Warranty  

Express warranties are specific promises made by a seller to a buyer, either orally or in writing. In the absence of communicated guarantees, an implied warranty may come into force.



Implied warranties are unwritten guarantees that a product or service should work as expected. For example, if you buy a set of headphones you would expect them to function when you first use them—unless you were told otherwise when you agreed to purchase them.



The Uniform Commercial Code (UCC) makes reference to an "implied warranty of merchantability," stating that any good sold in a transaction must be fit for the ordinary purposes for which it is typically used.



Correction—March 8, 2022: A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act required companies to issue warranties. The law does not mandate warranties, but rather sets federal rules for when warranties are offered.
What Is Expropriation?  

Expropriation is the act of a government claiming privately owned property against the wishes of the owners, ostensibly to be used for the benefit of the overall public. In the United States, properties are most often expropriated in order to build highways, railroads, airports, or other infrastructure projects. The property owner must be paid for the seizure since the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution states that private property cannot be expropriated "for public use without just compensation."





Key Takeaways:

Expropriation is the act of a government claiming privately owned property to be used for the benefit of the overall public.Properties may be expropriated in order to build highways, railroads, airports, or other infrastructure projects.Property owners must be compensated fairly for property that is expropriated, as instructed by the Fifth Amendment.


   Understanding Expropriation  

In the United States, a doctrine known as "eminent domain" provides the legal foundation for expropriation. U.S. courts have accepted the doctrine as a government power suggesting it is implied by the Fifth Amendment clause covering compensation. Under this rationale, the Amendment's statement that property cannot be expropriated without proper compensation implies that property can, in fact, be taken.






Governments have the power to take private property for fair-market-value compensation through the doctrine of eminent domain; some fees and interest may be payable to the former owner(s).



In some jurisdictions, governments are required to extend an offer to purchase the subject property before resorting to the use of eminent domain. If and when it is expropriated, property is seized through condemnation proceedings, a use of the term that is not to be confused with property that is in disrepair. Owners can challenge the legality of the seizure and settle the matter of fair market value used for compensation.



Another main justification for expropriation comes from the area of public health. It is generally recognized that events that threaten public health, such as toxic environmental contamination of an area, justify the government acting to relocate the affected population in the area, and part of that action may logically entail the government expropriating the property of the relocated residents.



Government expropriation is widely found around the world, generally accompanied by agreement that owners should receive appropriate compensation for the property they lose. The few exceptions to agreement on just compensation are primarily in communist or socialist countries, where a government may expropriate not just land but domestic or foreign businesses that have a presence in the country.


  Compensation Concerns Regarding Expropriation  

Expropriation raises justifiable concerns ranging from the acceptable reasons for expropriation to the process for recourse and the scope and amount of fair compensation. With regard to compensation, there is debate as to what constitutes fair recompense for owners of expropriated property. In cases spanning five decades, from the 1930s to the 1980s, the U.S. Supreme Court has repeatedly acknowledged that the definition of "fair market value" can fall short of what sellers may demand and possibly receive in voluntary transactions.



Consequently, in eminent domain cases, the standard is often not the most probable price, but the highest price obtainable in a voluntary sale transaction involving the subject property. Since the condemnation deprives the owner of the opportunity to take their time to obtain the optimal price the market might yield, the law provides it by defining fair market value as the highest price the property would bring in the open market.



Inconsistency and controversy also prevail over property owners who are compensated for their property, the inconvenience of being required to relocate, and the expense and possible business loss of doing so.



These costs are not included in the concept of "fair market value," but some are compensable in part by statutes, such as the federal Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act (Code of Federal Regulations 49) and its state counterparts.﻿﻿



Attorneys' and appraisers' fees the property owner incurs may also be recoverable by statute and, in California and New York, an award of such fees is at the court's discretion under certain conditions.



When payment of just compensation is delayed, the owner is entitled to receive interest on the amount of the late payment.


  Expropriations to Boost Tax Revenues  

A federal Supreme Court decision in the early 2000s—and subsequent reactions to the decision—have shaped the ability of governments to seize property under eminent domain for the sole reason of increasing tax revenue. Kelo v. City of New London, 545 U.S. 469 (2005) affirmed the authority of New London, Conn., to take non-blighted private property by eminent domain and then transfer it for a dollar a year to a private developer solely for the purpose of increasing municipal revenues.



The decision spurred outcry about overly broad expropriation powers and prompted further action at both the state and federal levels.



The Supreme Courts of Ill., Mich (County of Wayne v. Hathcock [2004]), Ohio (Norwood, Ohio v. Horney [2006]), Okla., and S.C., subsequently ruled to disallow such takings under their state constitutions. There was also federal action, despite relatively few expropriations being carried out by that level of government. On the first anniversary of the Kelo decision, President George W. Bush issued an executive order stating that eminent domain may not be used by the federal government "for the purpose of advancing the economic interest of private parties to be given ownership or use of the property taken."
What Is Extended Trading?  

Extended trading is conducted by electronic networks either before or after the regular trading hours of the listing exchange, such as the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). The U.S. stock exchanges are open from 9:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. EST.



Pre-market stock trading in the United States commonly runs between 4:00 a.m. and 9:30 a.m. EST and after-hours trading occurs from 4:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. EST.





Key Takeaways

Extended trading occurs on electronic marketplaces outside of the official trading hours of the exchange.U.S. exchanges open at 9:30 a.m. and close at 4:00 p.m. EST. Extended trading occurs outside those hours.Most brokers require traders to enter limit orders during extended trading sessions.


   Understanding Extended Trading  

Electronic Communication Networks (ECNs) have democratized extended hours for trading outside of regular exchange hours. An ECN is a computerized system that automatically matches buy and sell orders for securities in the market. Extended trading lets investors act quickly on news and events when the exchange is closed, and these transactions can predict the open market direction.



Extended trades commonly occur around the beginning or end of regular trading hours. The majority of extended trading happens between 8:00 a.m. and 9:30 a.m. EST. Similarly, investors may trade until 8:00 p.m., but most extended trading occurs before 6:30 p.m.



Most brokers require traders to enter limit orders during extended trading sessions. Some brokers only permit extended trading on Reg NMS securities. Over-the-counter securities, many types of funds, some options, and other markets may not be allowed during extended trading hours.






Brokerage firms commonly determine the rules that apply during extended trading. Rules governing the various markets and venues that conduct extended trading vary and may differ significantly from policies that apply during regular trading hours.


   Extended Trading Risks  

The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) highlights several risks associated with extended trading, including:



Limited Liquidity: Extended hours have less trading volume than regular hours, which could make it difficult to execute trades. Some stocks may not trade at all during extended hours.
Large Spreads: Less trading volume often translates to wider bid-ask spreads that adversely affect the market price for execution, making it harder to execute orders at favorable prices.
Increased Volatility: Less trading volume often creates greater volatility with wider bid-ask spreads. Prices can move drastically in a short amount of time.
Uncertain Prices: The price of a stock outside of regular hours may not closely match the price during normal trading hours.
Professional Competition: Many extended trading participants are large institutional investors, such as mutual funds, with access to more resources.


   Example of Extended Trading in the Stock Market  

The following chart shows the extended trading session for ABC Company on a typical day with no company announcements.



The stock closes for trading on the exchange at 4:00 p.m. Before 4:00 p.m., the one-minute chart is active, with price movement every minute of the trading day. There is also volume associated with each one of those one-minute price bars.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



After 4:00 p.m., the volume drops off. Some price bars appear as dots because there was a transaction at only one price level during that one minute. There are gaps between the dots because the price may change even though transactions haven't taken place. Fewer bids and offers may entice or scare an investor into transacting at the new bid or offer.



The last transaction of the evening occurs at 7:55 p.m. in this example. The first transaction is posted at 7:28 a.m. the following morning. The price trades higher than the prior close price but is quickly adjusted as the price falls more than $0.75 in minutes. The price oscillates on the low volume before the official exchange opening occurs and volume escalates.




When Can Investors Benefit from Extended Trading?
The ability to trade during extended hours can allow investors and traders to react instantly to the news which comes out when the exchange is closed. If a company reports poor earnings, the stock will likely drop, and the trader can exit their position sooner rather than wait for the exchange to open.




Where Can Investors Trade During Extended Trading Hours?
Extended trading may take place on alternative trading systems operated by broker-dealers, exchanges, and other trading centers. However, all markets are not available for extended hours of trading.




What Is an Unlinked Market and the Risk During Extended Trading?
Extended hours trading systems are not linked, and the price of a stock displayed on one trading system may not reflect the price of the same stock displayed on another trading system.


   The Bottom Line  

Extended trading on the exchanges occurs on electronic marketplaces outside of the official trading hours. Stock exchanges in the U.S. trade from 9:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. EST and extended trading occurs outside these hours. Risks for investors who trade during extended hours include price volatility and larger quote spreads. Most brokers require traders to enter limit orders during extended trading sessions.
What Is External Debt?  

External debt is the portion of a country’s debt that is borrowed from foreign lenders, including commercial banks, governments, or international financial institutions. These loans, including interest, must usually be paid in the currency in which the loan was made. To earn the needed currency, the borrowing country may sell and export goods to the lending country.





Key Takeaways

External debt is the portion of a country’s debt that is borrowed from foreign lenders, including commercial banks, governments, or international financial institutions.If a country cannot repay its external debt, it is said to be in sovereign debt and faces a debt crisis.External debt can take the form of a tied loan, whereby the borrower must apply any spending of the funds to the country that is providing the loan.


   Understanding External Debt  

External debt, or foreign debt as it is sometimes called, factors in both principal and interest and does not include contingent liabilities, which are debts that may be incurred at a later date based on the outcome of an uncertain future event. It is defined by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) as debt liabilities owed by a resident to a nonresident, with residence being determined by where the creditors and debtors are ordinarily located rather than by their nationality.



In some cases, external debt takes the form of a tied loan, which means that the funds secured through the financing must be spent in the nation that is providing the financing. For instance, the loan might allow one nation to buy resources it needs from the country that provided the loan.






External debt can take the form of a tied loan, obligating the borrower to spend the funds it’s lent in the nation that’s providing the financing.



External debt, particularly tied loans, might be set for specific purposes that are defined by the borrower and the lender. Such financial aid could be used to address humanitarian or disaster needs. For example, if a nation faces severe famine and cannot secure emergency food through its own resources, it might use external debt to procure food from the nation providing the tied loan.



Likewise, if a country needs to build up its energy infrastructure, it might leverage external debt as part of an agreement to buy resources, such as the materials to construct power plants in underserved areas.


   Defaulting on External Debt  

A debt crisis can occur if a country with a weak economy is not able to repay the external debt due to an inability to produce and sell goods and make a profitable return.



The IMF is one of the agencies that keeps track of countries’ external debt. Together with The World Bank, it publishes a quarterly report on external debt statistics.






The IMF and The World Bank produce an online database of external debt statistics for 55 countries that is updated every three months.



If a nation is unable or refuses to repay its external debt, it is said to be in sovereign default. This can lead to the lenders withholding future releases of assets that might be needed by the borrowing nation. Such instances can have a rolling effect. The borrower’s currency may collapse, and the nation’s overall economic growth will stall.



The conditions of default can make it challenging for a country to repay what it owes plus any penalties that the lender has brought against the delinquent nation. Defaults and bankruptcies in the case of countries are handled differently from defaults and bankruptcies in the consumer market. It is possible that countries that default on external debt may potentially avoid having to repay it.




What are external debt and internal debt?
External debt is the portion of a country’s debt that is borrowed from foreign lenders. Internal debt is the opposite, referring to the portion of a country’s debt incurred within its borders.




What are the types of external debt?
External debt is money borrowed by a government or corporation from a foreign source. It can include:Public and publicly guaranteed debtNon-guaranteed private-sector external debtCentral bank depositsLoans from the International Monetary Fund (IMF)




What are the effects of external debt?
High levels of external debt can be risky, especially for developing economies. Among other things, it could increase the risk of default and being in another country’s pocket, ruin credit ratings, leave little funds to invest and spur growth, and expose the borrower to exchange rate risk.


   The Bottom Line  

Like any form of debt, borrowing money from foreign sources can be good or bad. It may be a useful, cost-effective way to access much-needed capital or trigger a vicious cycle of debt.



If it means procuring money for important investments at a cheaper rate than can be found domestically, then it can ultimately be viewed as a good thing. However, the same cannot be said when struggling economies are effectively forced to borrow from other countries on ridiculous terms just to stay afloat.
What Are External Economies of Scale?  

External economies of scale occur outside of an individual company but within the same industry. Remember that in economics, economies of scale mean that the more units a business produces, the less it costs to produce each unit.



External economies of scale describe similar conditions, only for an entire industry instead of a company. For example, if a city creates a better transportation network to service a particular industry, then all companies in that industry will benefit from the new transportation network, and experience decreased production costs.



As an industry grows larger or becomes clustered in one location—as with, say, the banking and financial services in New York or London—than the average costs of doing business within that industry over the long run become lower, and we have external economies of scale. With external economies, costs also may fall because of increased specialization, better training of workers, faster innovation, or shared supplier relationships. These factors are typically referred to as positive externalities; industry-level negative externalities are called external diseconomies.





Key Takeaways

External economies of scale are business-enhancing factors that occur outside a company but within the same industry.In addition to lower production and operating costs, external economies of scale may also reduce a company's variable costs per unit because of operational efficiencies and synergies.On the downside, external economies of scale could dull the competitive edge of a company, as it cannot exclude competitors from benefiting also.


   The Basics of External Economies of Scale  

Businesses in the same industry tend to cluster in together. For example, a film studio might determine that California is a particularly good location for year-round film-making, so it moves to Hollywood. New movie producers also move to Hollywood because there are more camera operators, actors, costume designers, and screenwriters in the area. Then, more studios might decide to move to Hollywood to take advantage of the specialized labor and infrastructure already in place, thanks to the success of the first firm.



As more and more firms succeed in the same area, new industry entrants can take advantage of even more localized benefits. It makes sense for industries to concentrate in areas where they are already strong.






An agglomeration economy, or synergy, is when businesses in different industries are beneficial to each other and can share resources and opportunities.


   Agglomeration Economy  

If two or more separate industries are incidentally beneficial to one another, there can be external economies of scale across the entire group. This phenomenon is sometimes called an "agglomeration economy," in which businesses are located close to one another and can share resources and efficiencies. It is similar to the business governance concept of synergy.



Scale economies that occur outside of a company, but from which all companies in an industry benefit could include the following:



New production methodsTransportation modesGovernment tax breaksIncreased tariffs against a foreign competitorNew off-label use of a prescription drug or other product


   Pros and Cons of External Economies of Scale  

External economies of scale have several advantages. They include the following:



Egalitarian: All of the businesses in an industry enjoy these economies of scale equally.
Growth: External economies of scale can drive industry growth in particular regions and can also encourage the rapid economic development of support industries and the entire city or geographic area in general.
Lower costs: In addition to lower production and operating costs, economies of scale may also reduce variable costs per unit because of operational efficiencies and synergies.



But external economies of scale are not without drawbacks as well. These disadvantages include:



Lack of control: Individual firms have no direct control over what happens externally. In particular, this means that a company would not have a competitive edge, as it cannot exclude competitors from benefiting also.
Limited locations: External economies of scale may develop so strongly in one geographic region that it becomes difficult for companies in a certain industry to locate anywhere else.
Company instability: A business might not be able to exploit existing external economies because of its internal shortcomings, such as poor management, or other circumstances.


   Real-Life Example of External Economies of Scale  

From the late 1960s to the early 1990s, the arguable epicenter of the U.S. high-tech sector was a region just outside of Boston. It was known as Route 128, named for the freeway that ringed the city, and around which a cluster of technology companies grew—including those in the burgeoning computer business.



A variety of factors enticed entrepreneurs there, including proximity to corporations and educational institutions with their research centers and talent, financial services and venture capital firms, and military bases. And the more businesses that came, the more external economies of scale developed, making it easier for more ventures to find facilities, skilled labor, suppliers, sub-contractors, and support services—and to markets themselves, staging conventions and conferences.



Interestingly, toward the end of the 20th century, Route 128 was eclipsed as the center of the high-tech industry by Silicon Valley in the San Francisco Bay Area, where the external economies of the scale grew—as things in California tend to do—bigger, faster, and on a grander scale.
What Is an Externality?  

An externality is a cost or benefit caused by a producer that is not financially incurred or received by that producer. An externality can be both positive or negative and can stem from either the production or consumption of a good or service. The costs and benefits can be both private—to an individual or an organization—or social, meaning it can affect society as a whole.





Key Takeaways

An externality is an event the occurs as a byproduct of another event occurring.An externality can be good or bad, often noted as a positive externality or negative externality.An externality can also be generated when something is made (i.e. a production externality) or used (i.e. a consumption externality).Pollution caused by commuting to work or a chemical spill caused by improperly stored waste are examples of externalities.Governments and companies can rectify externalities by financial and social measures.












Investopedia / Madelyn Goodnight


   Understanding Externalities  

Externalities occur in an economy when the production or consumption of a specific good or service impacts a third party that is not directly related to the production or consumption of that good or service.



Almost all externalities are considered to be technical externalities. Technical externalities have an impact on the consumption and production opportunities of unrelated third parties, but the price of consumption does not include the externalities. This exclusion creates a gap between the gain or loss of private individuals and the aggregate gain or loss of society as a whole.



The action of an individual or organization often results in positive private gains but detracts from the overall economy. Many economists consider technical externalities to be market deficiencies, and this is the reason people advocate for government intervention to curb negative externalities through taxation and regulation.



Externalities were once the responsibility of local governments and those affected by them. So, for instance, municipalities were responsible for paying for the effects of pollution from a factory in the area while the residents were responsible for their healthcare costs as a result of the pollution. After the late 1990s, governments enacted legislation imposing the cost of externalities on the producer.






Many corporations pass the cost of externalities on to the consumer by making their goods and services more expensive.


   Types of Externalities  

Externalities can be broken into two different categories. First, externalities can be measured as good or bad as the side effects may enhance or be detrimental to an external party. These are referred to as positive or negative externalities. Second, externalities can be defined by how they are created. Most often, these are defined as a production or consumption externality.


  Negative Externalities  

Most externalities are negative. Pollution is a well-known negative externality. A corporation may decide to cut costs and increase profits by implementing new operations that are more harmful to the environment. The corporation realizes costs in the form of expanding operations but also generates returns that are higher than the costs.



However, the externality also increases the aggregate cost to the economy and society making it a negative externality. Externalities are negative when the social costs outweigh the private costs.


  Positive Externalities  

Some externalities are positive. Positive externalities occur when there is a positive gain on both the private level and social level. Research and development (R&D) conducted by a company can be a positive externality. R&D increases the private profits of a company but also has the added benefit of increasing the general level of knowledge within a society.



Similarly, the emphasis on education is also a positive externality. Investment in education leads to a smarter and more intelligent workforce. Companies benefit from hiring employees who are educated because they are knowledgeable. This benefits employers because a better-educated workforce requires less investment in employee training and development costs.


  Production Externalities  

A production externality is an instance where an industrial operation has a side effect. This is often the type of externality used as example, as it is easy to envision an environmental catastrophe caused by improperly stored chemicals by a chemical company. Because of how the company produced its goods or protected its waste, an externality occurred.


  Consumption Externalities  

Externalities may also occur based on when or how a consumer base utilizes resources. Consider the example of how you get to work. Those who choose to drive are creating a pollution externality by driving their own car. Those who choose to take public transit or walk are not causing the same externality. Instead of a side effect occurring because something is being produced, an externality is caused because of an item being consumed.






These four types of externalities above are often combined to define a single externality. For example, an externality may be a positive production, negative production, positive consumption, or negative consumption externality.


   Externality Solutions  

There are solutions that exist to overcome the negative effects of externalities. These can include those from both the public and private sectors.


  Taxes  

Taxes are one solution to overcoming externalities. To help reduce the negative effects of certain externalities such as pollution, governments can impose a tax on the goods causing the externalities. The tax, called a Pigovian tax—named after economist Arthur C. Pigou—is considered to be equal to the value of the negative externality.



This tax is meant to discourage activities that impose a net cost to an unrelated third party. That means that the imposition of this type of tax will reduce the market outcome of the externality to an amount that is considered efficient.


  Subsidies  

Subsidies can also overcome negative externalities by encouraging the consumption of a positive externality. One example would be to subsidize orchards that plant fruit trees to provide positive externalities to beekeepers.



This nudge has the potential to influence behavioral economics, as additional incentives one way or another way dictate the choices that are made. The subsidy is often placed on an opposing item to detract from a specific activity as well. For example, government incentives to upgrade to more energy-efficient renovations subtly discourages consumers against options with more externalities.


  Other Government Regulation  

Governments can also implement regulations to offset the effects of externalities. Regulation is considered the most common solution. The public often turns to governments to pass and enact legislation and regulation to curb the negative effects of externalities. Several examples include environmental regulations or health-related legislation.



The primary issue with government regulation of externalities is the need for consistent and reliable information to track the externality is being managed or overcome. Consider regulation against pollution. The government put forth resources to ensure that the legislation put in place is actually being followed, including holding bad actors accountable for not properly addressing their externality.


   Real-World Examples of Externalities  

Many countries around the world enact carbon credits that may be purchased to offset emissions. These carbon credit prices are market-based that may often fluctuate in cost depending on the demand of these credits to other market participants.



One program within the United States is the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI). The RGGI is made up of 12 states: California and 11 Northeast states. RGGI is a mandatory cap-and-trade program that limits carbon dioxide emissions from the power sector.



Different agencies are imposed a cap on externalities, though they can trade resources to change what their cap is. Agencies that struggle managing their externality (i.e. pollution) may need to purchase additional credits to have their cap increased. Other agencies that conquer their externality may sell part of their cap space to recover capital likely used to overcome their externalities.




How Do Externalities Affect the Economy?
Externalities may positively or negatively affect the economy, although it is usually the latter. Externalities create situations where public policy or government intervention is needed to detract resources from one area to address the cost or exposure of another. Consider the example of an oil spill; instead of those funds going to support innovation, public programs, or economic development, resources may be inefficiently put towards fixing negative externalities.




What Is the Most Common Type of Externality?
Most externalities are negative, as the production process often entails byproducts, waste, and other consequential outcomes that do not have further benefits. This may be pollution, garbage, or negative implications for worker health. Many externalities are also related to the environment, as the mechanical nature of manufacturing and product distribution has many detrimental impacts on the environment.




How Can You Identify an Externality?
Companies must be mindful of their entire production process when assessing production externalities. This includes not only implications of the final product but residual impacts of byproducts, disposal of items not used, and how antiquated equipment is handled. This also includes projecting outcomes of items yet to occur, such as waste yet to be properly disposed of.Consumers can identify consumption externalities by being mindful of the inputs and outputs that go beyond what they are attempting to achieve. Consider an example of an individual consuming alcohol. A consumer must be mindful that excessive drinking may lead to noise pollution, an unsafe environment, or adverse health effects.




How Do Economists Measure Externalities?
Economists use two measures to evaluate an externality. First, economists use a cost-of-damages approach to evaluate what the expense would be to rectify the externality. As we may be seeing with greenhouse gas emissions, some externalities may extend beyond the point of repair.Another method of measuring externalities is the cost of control method. Instead of fixing the externality, economists measure what preemptive and preventative steps can be taken to stop the externality from occurring. Similar to how an actuary assesses a financial value to an event, economists may assign multiple financial measurements to an externality.


   The Bottom Line  

An externality is a byproduct of a primary process. This side effect may be good or bad and may be caused by a production process or consumption process. Many externalities relate to the environment due to the nature of company and individual actions, though there are many ways governments, companies, and people can take responsibility to both prevent and rectify externalities.
What Are Production Externalities?  

Production externality refers to a side effect from an industrial operation, such as a paper mill producing waste that is dumped into a river. Production externalities are usually unintended, and their impacts are typically unrelated to and unsolicited by anyone. They can have economic, social, or environmental side effects.



Production externalities can be measured in terms of the difference between the actual cost of production of the good and the real cost of this production to society at large. The impact of production externalities can be positive or negative or a combination of both.





Key Takeaways

Production externality refers to a side effect from an industrial operation, such as a chemical company leaking improperly stored chemicals into the water table.Production externalities can be measured in terms of the difference between the actual cost of production of the good and the real cost to society at large.The impact of production externalities can be positive or negative or a combination.A positive production externality is the positive effect an activity imposes on an unrelated third party; a negative externality is the negative effect an activity imposes on the same. 


   Understanding Production Externalities  

There are many examples of production externalities, such as pollution and depletion of natural resources.



A logging company can pay for the cost of a tree that they remove, but the cost of replacing an entire forest once it is gone is exponentially more than the sum of its lost trees. Freeway traffic jams and health problems that arise from breathing secondhand smoke are further examples of externalities in production. A notable example of a large ecosystem of negative production externality is the Flint water crisis in 2019.



The British economist A. C. Pigou was the first to call out production externalities as a systemic phenomenon. Pigou argued that in the presence of externalities, we do not achieve Pareto optimality, even under perfect competition. If the externalities are present, the resulting social benefit or cost becomes a combination of private and external benefits or costs. 


   Examples of Positive Production Externalities  

A positive production externality (also called "external benefit" or "external economy" or "beneficial externality") is the positive effect an activity imposes on an unrelated third party. Similar to a negative externality. 



Going back to the example of the farmer who keeps the bees for their honey. A side effect or externality associated with such activity is the pollination of surrounding crops by the bees. The value generated by the pollination may be more important than the actual value of the harvested honey.



The construction and operation of an airport will benefit local businesses because of the increased accessibility.An industrial company providing first aid classes for employees to increase workplace safety. This may also save lives outside the factory.A foreign firm that demonstrates up-to-date technologies to local firms and improves their productivity.


   Examples of Negative Production Externalities  

Similarly, a negative production externality is the negative effect an activity imposes on an unrelated third party. 



Noise pollution produced by someone playing loud music in an apartment building results in sleep deprivation for their neighbor.Increased usage of antibiotics propagates increased antibiotic-resistant infections.The development of Ill-health, notably early-onset Type II diabetes, and metabolic syndrome, as a result of companies over-processing foods—primarily the removal of fiber and the addition of sugars.
What Is an Extraordinary General Meeting?  

An extraordinary general meeting (EGM) is a shareholder meeting called other than a company’s scheduled annual general meeting (AGM). An EGM is also called a special general meeting or emergency general meeting.





Key Takeaways

An extraordinary general meeting (EGM) refers to any shareholder meeting called by a company other than its scheduled annual meeting.The extraordinary general meeting is utilized to deal with urgent matters that come up between annual shareholders' meetings.EGMs are often considered for emergency measures such as resolving an immediate legal matter or the removal of a key manager.


   Understanding an Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM)  

In most cases, the only time shareholders and executives meet is during a company’s annual general meeting, which usually occurs at a fixed date and time.



However, certain events may require shareholders to come together on short notice to deal with an urgent matter, often concerning company management. The extraordinary general meeting is used as a way to meet and deal with urgent matters that arise in between the annual shareholders' meetings.



An EGM might be called to deal with any of the following:



The removal of an executiveA legal matterAny matter that can't wait until the next shareholders meeting



Another difference between an annual general meeting and an extraordinary general meeting is that an annual general meeting can only be held during business hours and not on a national holiday, while an EGM can be carried out on any day including holidays. Also, while a company’s board can only call an AGM, an EGM can also be called by the board on the requisition of shareholders, requisitionist, or tribunal.


   An Example of an Extraordinary General Meeting  

Extraordinary general meetings occur for a variety of reasons, but the meeting is usually called to discuss the potential removal of an executive. In December 2017, the London Stock Exchange (LSE) held an extraordinary general meeting, regarding claims that its chair, Donald Brydon, pushed out former chief executive Xavier Rolet. Rolet stepped down early in November 2017.



Although some EGMs occur outside of normal business hours, the London Stock Exchange's EGM took place on a non-holiday Tuesday. The motion was sparked by activist investor The Children’s Investment Fund Management (TCI), which had gotten 20.9% votes in favor of removing Brydon. However, the result of the EGM was that Brydon remained in his position.


   The Annual General Meeting (AGM)  

An annual general meeting (AGM) is a mandatory yearly gathering of a company's interested shareholders. At an AGM, the directors of the company present an annual report containing information for shareholders about the company's performance and strategy.



Shareholders with voting rights vote on current issues, such as appointments to the company's board of directors, executive compensation, dividend payments, and the selection of auditors. The exact rules governing an AGM vary according to jurisdiction. As outlined by many states in their laws of incorporation, both public and private companies must hold AGMs, though the rules tend to be more stringent for publicly traded companies.



Public companies must file annual proxy statements, known as Form DEF 14A, with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The filing will specify the date, time, and location of the annual meeting, as well as executive compensation and any material matters of the company concerning shareholder voting and nominated directors.
What Is an Extraordinary Item?  

Extraordinary items consisted of gains or losses from events that were unusual and infrequent in nature that were separately classified, presented and disclosed on companies' financial statements. Extraordinary items were usually explained further in the notes to the financial statements. Companies showed an extraordinary item separately from their operating earnings because it was typically a one-time gain or loss and was not expected to recur in the future.



In January 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), which issues the accounting standards that U.S. companies must comply with, eliminated the concept of extraordinary items. However, companies must still report nonrecurring items such as income received from the sale of land.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

Extraordinary items were gains or losses from infrequent and unusual events that were separately classified on companies' financial statements.In January 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) eliminated the concept of extraordinary items.﻿﻿FASB discontinued the accounting treatment for extraordinary items to reduce the cost and complexity of preparing financial statements.


   Understanding Extraordinary Item  

The accounting standards established and updated by FASB are called the generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). FASB discontinued the accounting treatment for extraordinary items and removed the reporting requirement from U.S. GAAP in order to reduce the cost and complexity of preparing financial statements.﻿﻿



Before 2015, companies put a lot of effort into determining if a particular event should be deemed extraordinary. Gains and losses net of taxes from extraordinary items had to be shown separately on the income statement after income from continuing operations.



The update by FASB to remove extraordinary items only eliminated the need for companies and their auditors to identify whether an event was so rare as to qualify as an extraordinary item starting in fiscal year 2015. Companies must still disclose infrequent and unusual events but now without designating them as extraordinary. Also, companies are no longer required to evaluate the income tax effect of extraordinary items and present the effect on earnings per share (EPS), which is a company's profit as a proportion of its outstanding equity shares.﻿﻿



This accounting update left reporting and disclosure requirements for unusual and infrequent events or transactions intact. While companies no longer must describe events and their effects as extraordinary, they still have to disclose infrequent and unusual events on the income statement and their effect before income taxes. Also, GAAP allows companies to give these events more specific names, such as "Effects From Fire at Production Facility."﻿﻿ The International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) do not include extraordinary items in their accounting standards.


   Requirements for an Extraordinary Item  

An event or transaction was deemed extraordinary if it was both unusual and infrequent. An unusual event must be highly abnormal and unrelated to the typical operating activities of a company, and it should be reasonably expected not to recur going forward. It was common for some businesses to not have this line item presented for years.﻿﻿ 



Besides segregating the effect of extraordinary items on the income statement, companies were required to estimate income taxes from these items and disclose their earnings-per-share (EPS) impact. Examples of extraordinary items are losses from various catastrophic events, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, and wildfires. While designating and estimating the effect from certain extraordinary events (e.g., fires) was easy, other events with an indirect effect on companies' operations were much more difficult to assess.﻿﻿
What is Extrinsic Value?  

Extrinsic value measures the difference between the market price of an option, called the premium, and its intrinsic value. Extrinsic value is also the portion of the worth that has been assigned to an option by factors other than the underlying asset's price. The opposite of extrinsic value is intrinsic value, which is the inherent worth of an option.





Key Takeaways

Extrinsic value is the difference between the market price of an option, also knowns as its premium, and its intrinsic price, which is the difference between an option's strike price and the underlying asset's price.Extrinsic value rises with increase in volatility in the market.


   Basics of Extrinsic Value  

Extrinsic value, and intrinsic value, comprise the cost or premium of an option. Intrinsic value is the difference between the underlying security's price and the option's strike price when the option is in the money.



For example, if a call option has a strike price of $20, and the underlying stock is trading at $22, that option has $2 of intrinsic value. The actual option may trade at $2.50, so the extra $0.50 is extrinsic value.



If a call option has value when the underlying security's price is trading below the strike price, the option's premium only stems from extrinsic value. Conversely, if a put option has value when the underlying security's price is trading above the strike price, the option's premium is only comprised of its extrinsic value.


   Factors Affecting Extrinsic Value  

Extrinsic value is also known as "time value" because the time left until the option contract expires is one of the primary factors affecting the option premium. Under normal circumstances, a contract loses value as it approaches its expiration date because there is less time for the underlying security to move favorably. For example, an option with one month to expiration that is out of the money will have more extrinsic value than that of an out of the money option with one week to expiration.



Another factor that affects extrinsic value is implied volatility. Implied volatility measures the amount an underlying asset may move over a specified period. If the implied volatility increases, the extrinsic value will increase. For example, if an investor purchases a call option with an annualized implied volatility of 20% and the implied volatility increases to 30% the following day, the extrinsic value would increase.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   Extrinsic Value Example  

Assume a trader buys a put option on XYZ stock. The stock is trading at $50, and the trader buys a put option with a strike price of $45 for $3. It expires in five months. 



At the time of purchase, that option has no intrinsic value because the stock price is above the strike price of the put option. Assuming implied volatility and the price of the stock stay the same, as the expiration date approaches the option premium will move toward $0.



If the stock falls below the put strike price of $45, then the option will have intrinsic value. For example, if the stock falls to $40, the option has $5 in intrinsic value. If there is still time until the option expires, that option may trade for $5.50, $6, or more, because there is still extrinsic value as well. 



Intrinsic value does not mean profit. If the stock drops to $40 and the option expires, the option is worth $5 because of its intrinsic value. The trader paid $3 for the option, so the profit is $2 per share, not $5.
